ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-002-028.u1	28. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand /German press 1000/ - Second reading This proposal was dealt with on Thursday, 7 September, when we interrupted it before the vote on Mr Alexandr Černý's procedural proposal to interrupt this proposal until Tuesday 12. 9. The Chamber of Deputies was not fit to settle. I ask that the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček, the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mr Matěj Fichtner, and the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Čihák, please take the position of the rapporteur. We will now continue the adjourned debate. No one seems to report for a word. I ask you again, who's applying for a word? [[Member Leo Luzar reporting.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr Leo Luzar has the floor. And he's carrying a sheet. [[Mr Luzar brings written materials.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-002-028.u2	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a wonderful day. First of all, I apologize to everyone for the length of my speech. But I suppose it will still be very interesting. And as I indicated at the first reading of this material, which related to the analysis you had in all your materials, that is, the Impact Study of the conclusion of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada on the one hand and the European Union and its members on the other - processed by the Technical University in Liberec - which we discussed thoroughly last time. I promised not to deal with it at this reading again, so I am putting it off and focusing on the specific things arising directly from this agreement. First of all, I have to say that the Ministry of Trade and Industry, which is the petitioner, the guarantor, has sent me two letters during the period, where it responds to some of my comments from first reading, some of the criticisms that I have briefly made for committee discussions. Unfortunately, the material is so extensive that the effort to do so in more detail in the committee has gone to waste. Nevertheless, I think that the treaty is so serious that it is worth getting to know you at least some of the problems that this treaty can bring. I see that many colleagues do not feel the need to pay so much attention. I understand it myself, because I did not really assume that international agreements, especially commercial, which should be discussed very carefully and very carefully prepared, can raise so many questions that I cannot find an answer to in these contracts. That's why I'm going to help myself with the material that the Ministry has processed, in which it responds to the complaints that I suggested in the early final word, if I call it that, based on the impact study and the closure study. I would like to mention here one thing that I consider important in the future of the economy of the Czech Republic. I'm going to move away from the things I suggested last time, which the Ministry is subject to, say, analysis, or criticism, as far as trademarks are concerned. If you remember, last time we talked about the fact that only two brands of Czech beer and then Žatecké beer and Czech hops are protected from the whole CETA agreement. All of them... [[He's looking at the benches where the ministers are supposed to sit. However, there is none, except Minister Jiří Havlíček, who is the applicant of the proposal.]] So unfortunately, the ministers have left and there is one minister left, but I suppose it does not contradict the Rules of Procedure that at least the Minister is here. So I'm gonna go back to the trade marks. The Ministry points out that - yes, we asked in some form the x dozen administrators of these trademarks, which we register in the Czech Republic. I'm looking for them... and just for the record, I'll tell you how much it involves. [[He's flipping through the materials.]] Once again, I will be based on the materials of the Ministry of Industry and Trade that have processed geographical indications and their names. And just for the record, you from the regions, so you know what's not gonna happen in this treaty. For example Pohořelický carp, Nošovice cabbage, Czech cumin, Všestarská onion, Karlovy Vary crackers, triple pea, Hořice trubičky, Lomnické rusky, Wallachian frgal, Olomouc shapes, South Bohemian Niva. All of this as a protected mark is not in this contract. Unfortunately, when I looked at the wording of the Treaty in detail and noticed what the other Member States of the European Union had included in that protection, these are dozens of similar products and names that these countries value and consider their protection so important that they have included them in this Treaty. It may seem superficial to you. Even from the Ministry's answer, it sounds like actually-- we asked them, they didn't really know if they did or didn't. They think of it as marketing rather than important. And yet there is nothing to prevent us from applying the protection of Czech interests during the Commission's negotiations, which will expand the possible valid contract. In this matter, however, it is interesting in the answer, citing the fact that the Ministry tried to include Budějovice beer with these two protected names. You will all remember the Lapalia of České Budějovice or Budějovický Budvar with your competitor Anheuser-Busch and the long, old-fashioned trademark disputes that lead all over the world. It was rejected. The Ministry tried to put this brand there, but it was rejected by the European Union that Canada would not accept it. So I ask how much this jewel of Budějovice beer will continue to be protected under this international treaty, and how far can it be taken as serious information from the Ministry, that there is nothing to prevent further discussion of the other names there, since the first one we quite appreciate, because it is not only regional, but it is a nationwide, perhaps European term Budweiser Budvar - its protection. So what we have to say here is that the answer from the Ministry is that the European Union does not honor the needs of the individual and rather the aim is something a little different. [[16.20 hours]] And here's where I have to ask. Budvar's competitor isn't from Canada. So why should this beer be a problem in the Treaty of the European Union and Canada? And again, we come across what I have already said in the preliminary comprehensive analysis that there is a NAFTA agreement, an agreement between the United States, Canada, and Mexico, which is currently under revision, but is under revision of US - Mexico relations. Canada is somehow innocent in this and, on the contrary, it will spread. Here, the first step may be taken to the detriment of our trademark, and an argument may be given to American opponents, competitors of our Buddha Budvar in the context of these old disputes in the course of ongoing litigation in the world. Here I would also like to hear a clear word from the translator, the Minister, that this will not happen and that he is able to guarantee that this treaty will not have any negative consequences in future on these ongoing trade marks throughout the world. We've been discussing the trademarks. Then we will look at another attribute of the answers from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, which concerns what I have said here in the past, and again I quote the impact study, namely the possibility of limiting or extending orders of strategic importance to so-called offsets, or if you want the advantage of involving the Czech industry in important economic buildings. Namely, this is the future of the construction of a nuclear power plant in the case of the construction of another or so-called offset under the Ministry of Defence's jurisdiction in the purchase of military equipment in the case of the development of the purchase of military equipment. Here is an interesting question about whether we have not acted illegally in the past, when we made the involvement of the Czech defence industry in the purchase of military equipment abroad, to be involved in these purchases as subcontractors, or to demand as an advantage for suppliers to involve Czech subcontractors. The Ministry of Industry and Trade replied to me in its letter that we could not even ask for such a thing in the past, because it is said to be contrary to the world trade agreement and others that Europe already honours in quotation marks today. Here I would also like to remind myself of the trades that other European countries conclude in this area, where the practice of involving their own defence industry is very common. Here, the Ministry on one side says: it is no longer allowed today, why I complain that there will be no offsets - I point out again that elsewhere in Europe it is - and on the other hand it adds that it is no big deal, because it thinks of Article 19.1 in these agreements, which concerns the exclusion from the competitive tendering of these commodities. I took the job and studied Annex 19.1 of the Agreement, which also refers, however, to Article 19.4, which deals with the goods demanded, if the contracting authority is the Ministry responsible. Either we quote from other materials, or I only have access to some of the materials. To clarify, the storage of the materials of the House is dedicated to CETA, and now it is about letters up to x, the individual stages of the contract, is really very extensive. There are dozens of additions, dozens of supplements, tables and other matters, very hard to find. It may also be my fault, and I would like the Minister of Defence to comment on this, but in Annex 19.1 to which reference is made to a letter from the Ministry of Industry and Trade concerning the central authorities of the state where they are listed and where he claims that this does not apply, this Annex 19.1 concerns a timetable for access to Canada's markets. In other words, the Canadian side lists its national authorities here, because Canada is like a small state with 36 million inhabitants, but it is spread over a vast area of groups. There are dozens of agencies here, and that list reads in order, I will not read it here, although I might delay a little bit more, but there are about 70 of them... the correct number is 98 state authorities that separate from the validity of this contract in the context of placing our goods on the Canadian market - from security considerations, I warn, mostly; these organizations have something to do with public service, security, the military. In these exceptions, they are listed as organisations that do not need to apply CETA. Those annexes to the other 19.4, to which the answer then applies, are really about the values of goods that can be delivered to different markets in Canada. No matter how much I looked for, a mirrored analogy to the European Union, that is, point 19 of Section 19, which is mentioned in the Treaty, but I simply did not find in the Annex relating to the European Union. Either it's not on the data storage site, which could have happened because the material is hugely large or it doesn't exist. This would then be a problem, because I think you are opening up the issue of future purchases of military technology and possible conditioning of the Czech industry's involvement in this supply. I think that by trying to strengthen the military budget, up to 2 percent of the promised GDP, we may be able to buy billions and buy armored transporters, but we will hardly be subject to the advantage or choice of partner and supply by involving Czech companies because we will engage in discrimination. The entire Treaty is based on a non-discriminatory approach by the European Union. Please note that Canada has exceptions there. Here comes the question of whether in the future Tatra Kopřivnice may need to participate in the delivery as a major supplier of military technology. What's more than discrimination is telling you to supply us with 200 transporters, but we'd like some of the units to be produced here, like in our Tatra business. The Tatra can only choose one potential partner, and the others will say: but you only have one manufacturer, our competitors have already bought it in advance and we feel discriminated against that we cannot ask him - and at that moment this demand is discriminatory against other suppliers. And if we chose a contractor to cooperate with Tatra because we want it, we have a clear violation of non-discrimination of competition. Therefore my question goes to the Minister of Defence, how he intends to comment on this in the future and whether he is also willing to promise here on the microphone that there is no danger of limiting the possibilities for the Czech army to use Czech suppliers within offsets in the future - I warn you, that is, within the framework of cooperation in the arms industry. We are talking about the fact that this is a trade for billions of crowns, we are all aware of that and that we would all very much like the trade for billions of crowns to be carried out on Czech territory, not just by the delivery of complete parts. I consider this to be quite a serious issue from this point of view of the non-discrimination that this Treaty is generally intersected. Personally, I would also like to know how much the Czech government ministers are willing to vouch for this. I fear that this treaty is completely missing basic attention. It is processed by the staff of officials, responsible for it are specific people, but how far the context of this comprehensive contract is perceived. [[16.30 hours]] I want to draw attention to one thing. As the TTIP Treaty was prepared, it was spoken of as new generation contracts, new generation trade agreements between the European Union and countries outside the European Union. In other words, we have been told that this type of contracts that we have here now will be a standard in international trade between the European Union. You could understand that, and you could see it. The first was TTIP, I will not mention its fate, the second is this treaty with Canada. If it were so that this is the new generation of treaties, I would be willing to say yes, the European Union is preparing for a future perspective and will work on it. Unfortunately - or, thank God, I do not know from which side of this - the European Union is in the meantime a third treaty of a similar nature. It is a treaty between the European Union and Japan. Japan is quite a major trading partner of Europe, unlike Canada, here I point out that our joint trade with Canada amounts to 0.36% for Europe, which is an absolutely irrelevant number. For the Czech Republic, it is 0.72 thousandth of a percent, or for us Canada, although I appreciate the few producers that import into Canada, it is a marginal trade volume for the Czech Republic, yet this agreement is pushed through such a massive force. I'll get back to the deal with Japan. If it were really meant that it was a new business environment and new business ideas to promote, then it is a mystery to me why the most controversial things that come to mind are not just me, but many of those that deal with it in the European Parliament, yes, mostly from the left, that is true why they are not in the agreement with Japan. Why an international investment tribunal has been launched, or whatever it is called, I will get to it further. The committee to decide, the mixed committee, why isn't it in the Japanese treaty? Why is the Japanese Treaty with the European Union again counting on classical insolvency proceedings, classic arguing formulas in the trade partnership under the World Trade Organisation and counting on the involvement of national courts in the decision-making of trade disputes? And why is Europe retreating? If it were to be a really new signal to the world of trade, I would understand that as an important partner with Japan we are strong, so we will try to push through the new idea, a new trend towards the direction of world trade. Unfortunately, it turns out that only these two treaties with the American continent, TTIP and CETA, have these contested paragraphs, which we are attacking in the course of the proceedings, the contested proceedings between companies and the state. Not with Japan anymore. They say it's to speed up the negotiations, and it's probably there, but it's not there. It's kind of a paradox, maybe a problem, maybe I see weed growing here, as they say, but it still seems kind of weird to me. And especially if I apply it with a partner who, in quotes, is marginal to Canada's business interests. And again, I point out that marginal interest in Europe's trade with Canada is certainly not the Canadian partner of the United States of America. And, in the long run, we have witnessed quite significant American-European overcrowdings in customs, in trade, in dispute and in the penetration of American companies, and in efforts to change a little European law in favour of understanding American commercial law. And here I draw attention to the fact that CETA can really be the opening point for those American companies to break into the European market through Canada and their companies in Canada and start crashing into the still-united barrier of the national and national interests of the individual states of the European Union, head in the protectionist view of trade. The answer from the Ministry says that the trade in Canada, or the partnership in Canada, is, of course, limited to companies established in Canada, with ownership structures in Canada, taxpayers such as Canada, but this does not say anything about the fact that the Czech company can establish its headquarters in Canada, or possibly. operate in Canada according to Canadian regulations and sue theoretically the Czech state. This is not covered in this contract and it is theoretically possible, and if anyone wants to gain an advantage, they will receive it in this way and will be protected under Canadian law, even in quotation marks, although it is Czech, but it will work and will be able to sue the Czech state, which is one of the things that is here, and this is interesting: the company can sue the state - the state cannot sue the company. It's a paradox, but it's true. So there's an inequality in law here. Why can't the state sue the company for causing damage in its territory, for not complying with laws, etc., investment of course, now I don't mean laws like classic. It's a law enforcement problem. The Ministry's reply says that the Treaty is actually very open from the European Union, unspecific in the view that it does not, of course, contain everything, but it is written in such a way as to cover everything. And that, in fact, the treaties that Europe offers are beneficial for Europe as a whole. I took the job and read the reservations in force in the European Union. Reservations of the individual Member States which apply to this Agreement. It is quite an interesting reading because you will learn how which state protects its territory and how it does not really care about the European Union's recommendations, which says: We centrally protect everything as individual states you do not have to. This mantra was actually held up, from my point of view and the results of the material, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, when it prepared reservations of the Czech Republic, because there are really very few reservations. And paradoxically, he's heading into the service, which I think is quite interesting, as if in the ministry the person responsible here had contacts with notaries, lawyers and educational institutions rather than industry and others, because those reservations are mainly aimed at these fields, but I can get to them further. So I consider it quite interesting reading, which I want you to meet briefly, because the reservations are actually almost the widest material that the CETA contains. Reservations of individual Member States. And if I allow myself to quote them briefly, I won't be bothering you for very long, so I'm going to take an example, with permission, for a moment, it's really a lot, I'm going to try some sort of common hierarchy. The EU reserves the right, now I will talk about those reservations that the EU as a whole has slept on for itself, which the Ministry says: These are the reservations that we count on, which are generally protected by Czech companies. The EU reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure, granting them different treatment in relation to the right to the occupation of nationals or undertakings through existing or future bilateral agreements between those Member States. But there is no Czech Republic in these exceptions. There are almost all the countries of the European Union, there are exactly... one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten, twelve, but not the Czech Republic. We probably do not consider the existing bilateral agreements, which we have and which could be disrupted and which restrict or make available the further functioning of companies in the Czech Republic. I consider this to be quite important, because legal certainty and continuity are quite interesting in my opinion. Paradoxically, European states restrict drug trade in their territories. It's a pharmaceutical delivery shop. We don't. [[16.40 hours]] Here's the railroad equipment repairs. We as the Czech Republic are quite a railway power. I don't know if you even realize this, but here we may owe our position and historical significance. Our railway network is one of the coolest and best quality within, I dare say, the world. Yet those who will repair our railway equipment are subject to regulation in the European Union, the EU has reserved it - but with the exception of the Czech Republic, of course Hungary, Slovakia - the European Union has reserved the right to adopt and maintain any measure with regard to the requirement of presence on their territory and the prohibition of cross-border provision of services, repairs, maintenance of vessels operating on inland waterways and railway equipment. [[unintelligible]] We're repairing, as far as I know, now I've even picked it up somewhere in the media, preparing investments to restore the cruise, I think you've been e-mailed to support some of the labs, but it's kind of my other topic, because we have an Odra-Labe-Dunaj channel in Moravia. This Lab road is a little out of my personal interest, but we support the emergence, restoration of the waterway and repair and maintenance and operation of shipping. Nevertheless, the Czech Republic has not reserved the possibility to regulate and determine any measures in this area. Paradoxically in the field of entertainment - and here I am heading to who actually prepared these documents - the states, together with the Czech Republic, have reserved the right to take or maintain any measure regarding the provision of entertainment services, including the services of theatres, musical groups, circuses and discotheques. What threat do we feel from Canada in the functioning of the discotheque when we reserve this right? Here I am rather heading to make you realize sometimes nonsenses of what is being presented to us and confirmed then with the details that the officials put in these contracts. Somewhere illogical. Coming out of something, I confess, I don't know what. I sometimes wondered, but there was simply no time in the committees and space to go into these details. Among other things, we reserve the right to maintain any measure on the provision of sports and recreational services. The Kanaďan won't be able to provide this with us. What is more interesting and what will be about the possible majority of teachers, schoolchildren and members of the school committee present here, that the European Union reserves the right to take or maintain any measure with the exception of the Czech Republic, Holland, Sweden and Slovakia regarding the provision of other private-funded education, so-called. other than primary, secondary, post-secondary and adult education. All states outside these four and the Czech Republic have reserved the right to be able to regulate this education. We don't. So we give up on the future for the benefit of our partners. Perhaps it is from the other sides of the European Union that they also hear grass grow, as they say. But they put it there that they would be able to take this measure in the future. We didn't put it there. An interesting thing is the provision of health services. Yes, here and in the Ministry's reply, the European Union has reserved the right to adopt, maintain any measure with regard to the provision of all social services that are financed from public sources or have some form of State aid. They are therefore not considered to be privately funded and in respect of activities or services forming part of a public pension scheme or a compulsory social security scheme. From this point of view, everything would seem to be in the best order. The question is, and then I get to it in health care, that the transport service providers have completely fallen out of this system in this field. Namely, I am heading to rescue services and files, health services, warning, or social, when the state can actually regulate municipalities so far, these are owners like the public sector and provide services. Now it will be completely liberalized. Because we do not have this exception there, and we say yes, doctors are protected, but not providers of these services. Even if some countries of the European Union put it there. I can get to them in my detailed list of individual states that are protected like this. There was, of course, a taxi service discussed a lot here last time. And so I mean the phenomenon of a new era, these are the cabs shared, shared services. Industry 4.0 etc., I don't want to go that far. Nevertheless, it is said that cities want to regulate taxi service. Prague, an example of this, Members from Prague will give me the truth that this is a problem. And I read in the Ministry's reply that it is no problem, that they will, of course, be able to apply regulatory principles. So I read into those paragraphs again, and yes, taxi services in the European Union - I draw attention to the exception from Belgium, it is one of the things that Belgium did not want to ratify this treaty and pushed the European Union very hard when it gave way, and Belgium has an exception - a test of economic need may apply. On the basis of the economic needs test, where used, a maximum number of service providers shall be established. Main criteria, local demand, as provided for in the applicable legislation. In other words, dear Prague representatives, if CETA enters into force in this area, the only possible criterion for regulating taxi services on your territory, really, is the economic need test for the Czech Republic. Other states have made an exception. So to test or, on the contrary, say that there is no need for another taxi service in the city. This is the only way to apply your reservations. And such UBERs or others that are coming, and I have used it quite deliberately, because it already operates on our territory and already resists its operation, some cities adopt decrees and regulate, it will actually have a free scope if it comes here as a Canadian company. In my opinion, this is not a major problem for him. And it is quite clear that this agreement does not count on the phenomenon of Industry 4.0 and shared services. Here we are getting into this problem that I might be able to - no, I'll tell you this now, I think your attention is still good enough that you can perceive the fundamental contradiction that is in this CETA and which I perceive as opposed to other trade agreements that it has concluded is the negative and positive approach to those restrictions. The positive approach briefly talks about the positive list, that yes, we have some regulation, and we will apply those that come in the future. And negative, which is new, it is new in these contracts, both TTIP and CETA, and nowhere else has been applied, even in the Japanese one, it is also interesting, it is called. a negative list of the obligations of the contract. The negative list is based on the fact that we have some level of regulation here, this regulation is taken as a given, it takes over, but everything that's going to be new, like some time, like Industry 4.0, like a shared economy, like some need for a state to regulate something, so if it's not in the exception, then we're out of luck. The bureaucracy of Brussels will have to deal with this. And as you realize, and many of us have a lively experience with Brussels' bureaucracy, it will be a huge problem. The bureaucracy of Brussels will one day bury us all. I will go back to these exceptions to illustrate the problem that other European Union countries are aware of when preparing this treaty against the Czech Republic in the context of the exceptions that she has applied. For example, Austria reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with regard to the provision of privately funded ambulance services. The rakušák thought about it. In other words, Austria can regulate privately funded ambulance services. He can say no, no, no, this is where the state ambulance works, I don't want you here! But it's only Austria. Czech Republic - eh, not that. Austria reserves the right to prohibit the provision of private-funded adult education through radio or television broadcasting. I confess, I'm not an expert in long-distance education, but I think the Rakušák are concerned that it might put them at risk. Austria is not a very large state and is probably concerned about how education will work with them. [[16.50 hours]] I was talking about Belgium. Belgium was quite a brazen state in the European Union and made quite a lot of comments. For example, Belgium reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with regard to the provision of privately funded social services other than services related to health care, health care and retirement homes. We've been told that it's not a problem, that our regulations are, and that the contract assumes that there's no problem. Yet Belgium, as a Member State of the European Union, has reserved the possibility of regulation in this area in the field of health. We don't have a stable provider health system. We constantly feel and perceive the problems of the regions that respond to privatizing, not privatizing, leaving under the regions, to shift powers. So we're not settled, but we're already closing our way to options other than liberalization. Belgium didn't, Belgium treated it. We don't. Belgium has also treated the taxi service, among other things, they have determined the availability of taxi services in the spirit that they have set maximum number of licenses. Perhaps such a Prague would say - a taxi service in Prague for 2018 is sufficient 3 thousand. licences. For example, Belgium has established in Brussels, out of the number that government agencies can determine the number of licences. But only Belgium. We don't. We will not be able to regulate the taxi service in this otherwise than by the test I was talking about, which, in my opinion, is very hard to perform, how to evaluate the need for a number of taxis and who else, or, we will not be able to distinguish whether anyone at all, of that, of that, of that, but only the quantity. We can say it can work according to the needs here. I am unable to say how I would define the decree to be responsible for the administration of the city, how I will test this need. That is why Belgium has divided itself - and even divided it into the Flemish region and the Valonian region - into order. A little different value. So the Belgičan thought about it. When we look at other states, Bulgaria is interesting. I would like to read Bulgaria's reservations, where it sets out the right to intervene. Bulgaria reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with regard to electricity and heat production and energy distribution services, pipeline transport, oil and gas storage and storage, including transit. This is what the Bulhar have reserved as their national interests to protect themselves and will be able to apply restrictions. We don't. You can remember examples where it might be good to treat this here, but we say and believe in a liberalised market and the free hand of the market that will solve this. I fear that in competition - and if I mention liquefied natural gas, if I mention other fuels coming, I am not sure that we will be able to respond to these things. There's one other thing interesting about the Bulgarians. They, like us, have come to Europe with nuclear heritage, namely nuclear energy, at a pretty high level, if I may say so, still functioning. Bulgaria reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with regard to the processing of fissile and thermonuclear materials or materials used for their production, trade in such materials, maintenance and repair of equipment and the nuclear power plant system, the transport of such materials and resistance arising from their processing, the use of ionising radiation and all other services related to the use of nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, including engineering and consultancy services and software services, etc. Wouldn't it be good to have this point in our reservations, Mr. Secretary? In the near future, the boom of nuclear energy awaits us, because there is a decline in nuclear energy in Germany. And that energy is going to have to be made somewhere. Even the government is preparing plans for building blocks in the energy concept. And I find that quite interesting. If the Deputy Minister's letter can reassure me that it's not really a big deal, there's no danger, it's free, it's liberalized. Yet Bulhar do not believe it. I think they're stupid. But they put in insurance that the state would be able to decide and determine whether to take any action. Now we can talk about the Czech engineering industry, which would certainly very much like to participate in nuclear energy. And I will not only talk about Škoda Plzeň, which has a history, but also about his nearby company Vítkovice, which had a nuclear division until recently and was able to produce all components for nuclear energy in my opinion. He'll have to be subjected to a liberal market test. And that's what Bulhar call themselves -- no, no, we can choose our own delivery company in this area ourselves. By your own rules. Not according to CET. He's protecting his engineering market so he can participate in these huge state investments. 'Cause this isn't about if I'm gonna build a lobby, a couple of machines and something. That's the billions that go into these things. And I'm coming back again - energy, I've already talked about the army. If we take a closer look. I like those Bulhar. Bulhar reserve the right to take or maintain any measure with regard to the provision of privately funded hospital care, ambulance services and institutional health care other than hospital. You heard the contradiction of the ambulance service. They made the reservation. The European Union does not, some states do, and Bulgarians do. We want to be able to regulate ambulance services. We want to decide who will provide health services in private with us. No market liberalization. We want to regulate it. Because what is it, ladies and gentlemen? These are public funds. Health is still funded from public sources. Even if the service provider is a private entity, the funds come from state budgets. And that's huge money. And I'm sure we're all aware of that. Bulhar thought about it. We don't. What's interesting is rail transport. I have already mentioned in part about the repairs and water repairs, but we, Bulgaria and the Czech Republic have mentioned the exception as provision. [[Slovak?]] I'm here pointing out that some of the private carriers that provide transportation between these states and sometimes also works on Bulgaria have worked and made an exception that they can continue to function. So it is both in Bulgarian exceptions and in Slovak exceptions and in Czech. It's just that private capital can reserve exceptions when it needs to. Chorvat, for example. they have made reference to taking and maintaining any measures with regard to agriculture and hunting. When we realize how it is presented to us that Europe has thought of everything and everything is trouble-free and all of these things will be dealt with subsequently without any problems, why did the Chorvat actually give it to each other? What do they see as a problem? I wanted to put the Czech Republic at the end, but since the Czech Republic is in alphabetical order, as I have it sorted, in the front, I will tell you what the reservations are in the Czech Republic, let you get an idea, and I will continue with other countries to compare. In the Czech Republic we reserve perhaps as the only ones, because I did not find it in other countries, auctions. How many of our citizens have problems with competition in auctions? The Czech Republic has reserved its auctions. Auctions can be operated in the Czech Republic on the basis of a trade licence. It is necessary to have a registered office and to operate in order to obtain a trade permit for the organisation. Do you see any problem with the auctions? Competition in auction organisations? I don't, but it's in the exception. I said, who put it there? Why? What was the reason to reserve auction exemptions in Europe? It seems quite trivial to me compared to energy, but I'd still like to know. [[17,00 hours]] We have reserved agricultural land and land in investment - foreign natural persons with permanent residence in the Czech Republic and enterprises established in the Czech Republic can acquire. This is quite reasonable - only until we know that their owners are abroad and only have their Filials established in the Czech Republic and are and work. Some approach it a little differently. But it doesn't matter. Okay. I'm asking who prepared the material that protects our lawyers. Again, none of the European Union's states have any exceptions, at least I haven't found it, but the Czech Republic has. Attention, Czech Republic protects. Foreign lawyers registered in the Czech Bar Association pursuant to § 5a para. They are entitled to provide legal services in the field of law of the State in which they have been authorised to provide legal services in the field of international law. The paragraph goes on, but I won't keep you. [[Fun in the hall.]] The point is that it seems quite trivial to me, yet we have it there, but the important things that I would consider important to the whole state and the state economy are not there. Further protection - audits. We protect our audit market from dangerous Canadians. I appreciate that. Someone thought we'd protect the security services. The market for the provision of security services. This is where we can decide who the security services will provide, who won't. I am heading towards the protection of education, where we have investments, senior management and board of directors, border trade in services. In the Czech Republic, the majority of the members of the Board of Directors of a private educational establishment must be nationals of the Czech Republic. In other words, we protect ourselves in the educational sector of the employment of our professors. I apologize to the professors for taking them into account. But, yes, we are protecting our worthy scientists so that they can continue to sit in the supervisory boards of these institutions. In the context of national treatment, the Czech Republic reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with regard to the provision of all professional healthcare, all care provided by professionals such as doctors, dentists, midwifes, nurses, physiotherapists, health professionals and psychologists, and the provision of other healthcare related to human tissue manipulation, organs, cells intended for human use. Period. This is where the ambulance services that other states are protecting are missing. We don't. We didn't put them there. And I think that's a shame, because the health complex probably requires protection when other states see it in the context of this agreement. On the contrary, the Czech Republic has reserved the right to adopt or maintain any measure with regard to the provision of privately funded social services. I appreciate that. Well, at least that makes sense that we're here protecting our senior market, if that's what I call it, because it's quite a large amount of money that's dedicated to seniors here. And we're getting old. So it's a pretty big problem. Back to traffic again. Railroad traffic. Again the exception, Czech Republic, Slovakia, Bulgaria among the countries concerned. I would really like to know who put it there and what was behind it, the intuition of why they put these three states there, and which private carriers are planning to connect in these three countries, that these countries have put it into exceptions. Under what pressure? I think it's weird. On the contrary, what I will add for interest is fair in road transport to add that we have measures in the Czech Republic: measures taken in accordance with existing or future agreements that reserve or restrict the provision of transport services and specify the conditions of operation including transit permits or preferential road taxes for transport services to and through the territory of the Czech Republic and between the Czech Republic and the Contracting Parties concerned. In other words, we protect ourselves on roads of the third type and the possible application of selections and other matters. Yes, there are positive things, that's what I'm saying here is true to the letter from the Ministry that there are positive things in CETA, but they're already in our laws. I would like to point out that this is already a matter that follows from other treaties, and it is given there to be there and that the Kanaďan in this area should be careful. I'm going to skip some states that haven't impressed me so far in comparison with the Czech Republic, and I want to save some of your time. [[Fun in the hall.]] It's quite an interesting reading, I'm warning you. Like when you start thinking about why they put it there. Sometimes it feels like triviality. Like the Francouz protecting the fish industry. Why did they put it there? Like some kind of shrimp... It doesn't ring a bell. But they put it there. Today you're saying, how would that Kanaďan man with the fishing boats go all the way to France and fish for them? They've put it out of their league. I don't know why. I'm thinking about how far they trust Kanaďan, such a small nation. It is small to the European Union. But they don't trust them. They put it there hard - protection of their own fishing industry. [[Noise in the hall.]] I was talking about guide services here last time. I was told that this was not a problem, that the European Union was sufficiently protective and that there was no risk of dumping by overseas travel agencies. Prague has a bit of a problem with that. France has taken a leave of it, too. France sees this as a problem, she said, since we have already released the guide from the European Union, we do not agree with the fact that there are other guides here. Thus, France has put a hard ban on guide activities other than from European countries in its exceptions. I think he knows why. We don't. Interesting is Germany. German precision, when you read their reservations, you're thinking, "Those Němec, they're fistróns." Němec reserves the right to limit the number of employees' placement service providers. The permit shall be subject to an economic needs test. Main criteria - situations and developments in the labour market. If you think about it, it doesn't say anything, but if I tell you the agency employment and the problems that are causing it to the Czech Republic, you might as well tell me that the Němec may be thinking a little bit more forward, or the areas that we are moving on to. Germany has also reserved one thing in investment. Germany reserves the right to maintain State ownership of privately funded hospitals operated by German forces. Germany reserves the right to nationalise - nationalise - other key privately funded hospitals. This sentence is crucial. Germany reserves the right to nationalise other key privately funded hospitals. The Germans do. We don't. And I wonder how we're gonna do it if we want to nationalize, expropriate, acquire a failing hospital. Nothing. The Germans reserved it to do so to preserve the availability of health care. We didn't prepare for it. Now it's just, it's smiling, please don't take it so seriously. But the Germans are really like the details of a pinktlich. Germany reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with regard to the provision of cremation and funeral services. Only legal persons established under public law may operate the cemetery. The establishment and operation of cemeteries and funeral services are services of public administration. It may be as humorous as it is and I said it's a humorous matter, but when you realize what we're saying about CETA in the explanatory report, how great it is and thinking about everything and how the store opens up and how all the problems between Canada, a little Canada and a great Europe disappear, you think and wonder why the Němec are giving you such an exception to funeral services. How do they feel about the danger to their market? It's an international treaty. It has its weight. They still put it there. They probably know more than we do. It's possible. I don't know. Anyway, sometimes we can run into the problem. [[17.10 hours]] The Maďar are quite interesting here. I'm heading back to the police again. Hungary reserves the right to adopt or maintain any measure with regard to the provision of intelligence and press agencies services. Yes, we all know the problem of Hungary and the EU's criticism of Hungary in the context of their policy, let's say, I don't want to go into these details, but the Maďar have reserved the right to decide that they can take any action against the news and press agencies. Among other things, by saying goodbye to those who are strongly anti-Hungarian. But they're the only ones who thought about it. And I'm going back to it again: why did they put it there? When you think about it. How do you feel about the problem of the European Union's international treaty - half a billion - against small Canada - 36 million people? Why is it there? I mean, it's a trade agreement, it's supposed to deal with international trade, profits on both sides! Why do they have it there? Here's Italy's reservation. If the Minister of Defence were here, there is no shame, when I spoke to him in the context of offsets, the Ital generally reserved national law in the field of military law. And I will quote this: the Government can exercise certain specific powers in defence and national security businesses and in certain activities of strategic importance in the field of energy, transport and communications. This applies to all legal entities engaged in activities considered strategically significant in defence and national security, not only privatised companies. (a) impose special conditions on the purchase of shares, veto the adoption of resolutions relating to special operations such as transfers, mergers, divisions and changes in activities, or refuse the acquisition of shares if the buyer seeks to acquire such a share in capital, which would be likely to jeopardise the interests of security and national defence. Any resolution and transactions, transfers, mergers, divisions, changes in activities and terminations concerning strategic assets in the fields of energy, transport, communications shall be notified by the company concerned to the Prime Minister's Offices. In particular, it shall be notified of the acquisition by any natural or legal person outside the EU who provides such person with control over the company. That's what the Ital have here. Why did they put it there? And it is a pretty strict measure to protect its internal security in the field of military, energy, transport. They don't know anything more, or are they more prudent than us? Why do Canada have this in the international treaty of the European Union - 500 million and 36 million citizens? I ask why we do not have there, for example, who are quite a large exporter, a producer of these commodities, and we would like to apply interests and we would like to limit the entry of foreign shareholders into our arms industry for security reasons, for example. We won't be able to. And now I'm not talking about what security reasons or strategic partners we might be afraid of getting into our strategic nuclear or weapons industry. The Italians put it there. We don't. And they do not trust the European Union to treat it differently. I'll be out in a minute. Don't worry. Lithuania also took guide services. It's just for the record, France isn't the only one. You already put them in there. But I can still quote Malta. Here I may be aiming for colleagues from the left who support this treaty. Why did Malta put it there? Public bus transport. The whole system is subject to a concession - including in our country - which includes a public service contract - here I point out that we also have a public service obligation - to provide transport for certain social groups such as students and seniors. In other words, dear colleagues, if we want to enable a group, a social group of transport benefits under a public service obligation, in order to promote labour availability, labour mobility and other matters, CETA will prevent us from doing so. That is why Malta put it there so that it could continue to provide it so that it could provide this service. We don't have it there. And I'm afraid that all the contracts and these things that go towards, say, editing or taming the free market for some sort of activity, and those ideas you will surely remember dozens worth doing in regulation or allowing the free market to benefit will not be able to do. Unless we turn to Brussels, Brussels once in a while - now I will not look for the deadline - how many months it will sit, it will discuss it with Canadian partner. A Canadian partner says, "we don't know, but maybe it's gonna need more discussion," so it's gonna take about three, four, five, six years, when it's not gonna be up to date, and they're gonna tell us, well, you can regulate, you can adjust, you can limit the market's free hand. Malta's done it now, she won't have this problem. But we do, we'll get to these problems. [[17.20 hours]] And I have another red note that concerns education, because I understand education as well, I also went to school, so I consider myself a tenth expert. As far as education is concerned, he reserves the option - and now which state it is. Slovakia. Our brother. It can be used as a private education test for economic needs and the number of schools established may be limited by local authorities. The Slovák think that there might be a situation where they would like to limit the number of schools as a decision of the institution. And they will be able to do so without seeking help in the institutions of the European Union. Namely, it has a pretty awful, I can get to it further, even if time may have passed. [[unintelligible]] Anyway, I think it would be worth it, dear colleagues, for you to take advantage of some opportunity, if there is still a chance, to think about the need for this agreement in the clubs. I would urge you to try this again in the clubs with your guarantors to discuss this material. I noticed an invitation from the ODS club, which organizes another seminar on CETA. Two or three seminars took place, mostly under the patronage of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I organized one, and now I got an invitation to my colleagues at ODS. Unfortunately, I think it's this week's end of the week. If we approve today, the seminar will be and its conclusions, no matter what they say, will be too late. [[unintelligible]] I would like to give you all the opportunity to look at this again and think about how much it is necessary to accept this Treaty. As far as the next debate is concerned, I have a motion for a resolution prepared, but of course I will have to wait until a detailed debate so that I can speak with this. In the meantime, thank you for your attention and I will pass on the floor to the next logged in with the fact that I do not exclude myself from the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-002-028.u3	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon before I give another word, I will read the apologies. Today, from 14 to 16 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Jitka Chalánková apologises and from 16.45 for personal reasons, Mr Jan Sedláček apologizes. Mr Pavel Kováčik is reporting with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-002-028.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. I must say that I have expected a much greater interest in discussing a topic that is really in the life interest of the Czech Republic and of Europe as a whole, and I feel that a drop is being underestimated. I am therefore glad that after we organized the seminar, we as the club KSČM, I think they followed other clubs. I believe the ODS has been mentioned. It is an area where at least we can discuss new, broader facts, deeper topics and so on. Now, given that my colleague Luzar has said some things that have surprised me personally, I would like to express the need to discuss with colleagues at the KSČM parliamentary club and therefore request a break from the club at the KSČM club meeting for an hour and 41 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-002-028.u5	Thank you. If you have asked for such a long break, we are over 19 hours away, and thus we are getting through the time reserved for today's negotiations. That is why I am interrupting today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until nine o'clock tomorrow morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant rest today.
