ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u1	190. Oral inhalation We, with the participation of the verifiers, have drawn the rankings of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, then to other members of the government. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government, as well as to the Government's intercessors, that the interpelations on the members of the Government will begin immediately after the application for an interview on the absent Prime Minister has been exhausted. I'm gonna use my moments to read my apologies. Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 to 19.00 on account of his business trip, Mr Leoš Heger apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the meeting day, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes today from 14.00 to the end of the meeting day for working reasons, Mr Jan Sedláček apologizes today for medical reasons from 13:00 p.m. Mr Pavel Čihák apologizes for today's meeting from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day of Mrs Pavla Golasowská. And I give the floor to Mrs Jana Lorencová, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka, and Mr Antonín Seďa will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u2	Hello, Mr President, colleagues. I kind of feel like laughing when I look around and see how many of us here... how many members of the government I'm gonna talk to and how many Members I'm gonna do, but it's okay. [[There's not a single one sitting on the government bench right now.]] [[There are about 12 Members in the hall]] I can start, okay? Time. I hope I didn't lose him. We already know about tax evasions associated with tax havens. It is difficult for citizens to satisfy, dear absent Prime Minister, by stating that the possibility here is given by the laws and regulations in force in the Member States of the European Union. Ironically, some European Union countries are also referred to as tax havens. But then we are in a vicious circle, because the tide of our taxes, our money, we are doomed to stand by bitterly. Why is it taking so long and when can we expect to stop, or at least limit what we are witnessing, this giant tunnel? Yes, according to EU directives, tax entities can really tax where it is more advantageous for them. Prime Minister, absent, isn't it time to make sure that this incredible measure is stopped and that we work on what is beneficial for the citizens of our country? So thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u3	Thank you, Madame. The Prime Minister shall be excused and shall answer in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I did not want to interfere with this interpelation, but in accordance with the resolution in force of the Chamber of Deputies, there can be no negotiation if not one member of the government is present. [[Voices from an almost empty hall.]] I'm not sure that... That's acting like any other. Please, Mr. Ambassador, I will take a look at the resolution for now. It's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, I am addressing you on priority transport structures in the Zlín Region, namely the construction of D55 number 5505, Otrokovice bypass southeast and D49 number 4901 Hulín - Fryšták. First of all, I would like to thank the government for putting these two buildings on the list of priorities of the constructions of the Czech Republic under the EIA exception. The problem, however, is that both buildings are currently suspended. The D49 construction cannot now be authorised and the court's decision has to be awaited, because Egeria is suing for an exemption and has also succeeded in granting a suspensive effect. As regards the construction of the D55, the Road and Motorway Directorate of the Czech Republic requested the Regional Authority of the Zlín Region to grant an exemption from the ban on specially protected animal species. Mr. Prime Minister, on the basis of my oral interview with the Minister of Transport, I was told that it is now necessary to wait for a court ruling in case D49, because the Ministry of the Environment did not comment on the application to grant the suspensive effect of the action. In case of D55 it is necessary to obtain an exemption for 15 species of specially protected animal species, which is a prerequisite for a follow-up building procedure. For the reasons set out above, I would like to ask for your help in obtaining both documents and the synergies between the state authorities and both ministries to solve the current problems for both priority buildings in the Zlín Region, so that it can finally start building. Thank you in advance for your help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Jana Hnyková will now speak with her intervention. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Despite the fact that the Prime Minister is not here, I am going to ask for answers to my interview and I would ask him to do this in particular: On 20 April 2017, the Social Policy Committee dealt with its discussions on points - first of all, the current situation in the information technology solution in the Ministry of Information and second point we had information about the situation in the Czech Social Security correctly. We were assured that everything was okay. We also received written information from resolution 257, which we asked for, but I would still like to ask some questions that I did not find in the answers and are related to the pension agenda. I wonder how much it costs to prepare the monthly terms for the development of the new pension agenda and what the estimated price of the contract is. That's the first question. Secondly, why the Ministry decided to take over the long-term competences of the Czech Social Security Administration and why it will address the pension agenda in its direction as one big green meadow contract. Come in. There have been changes in the management of the Czech Social Security Administration. It's startling that you're going to choose the headmaster, and he's leaving shortly after that. I'm asking why. On Facebook people from the Czech Social Security Administration, especially from the information technology section, complain about bullying. I said, do you know what's going on in there? Come in. You don't have a seat as director of the Internal Audit and Control Department, which I consider alarming. What are you, Prime Minister, going to do about it? How will you appeal to the Minister? 'Cause who's running the whole internal audit and control process now? I thank you for all your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u7	Thank you, Madame. Mr Mackovík will now speak to the Prime Minister in the case of Česká spořitelna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u8	Hello, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues. I would like to ask Mr. absent Prime Minister's opinion on one crucial matter. We are here very often dealing with the debt of citizens of the Czech Republic, bailouts and executions. I have recently discovered, at the initiative of several citizens, that the Czech Savings Bank even gives citizens, and even into a bank and non-bank register, which pays properly. I'll give you an example. If you are to pay 10 grand a month for a period of one year, the person in question will pay three times in a row not 10, but 20,000, which means he has substantially more money in that account than he had at the given date, and the Czech Savings Bank claims the payment in the next month with the fact that he is becoming a defaulter and puts it in the bank and non-bank register as a defaulter. Other companies do not do this and it is a mystery to me why banking supervision, which I think should be done by the Czech National Bank, allows such a procedure at all. I don't like the fact that people who pay more than they're supposed to pay in the proper payment, let's just say one day they're not going to pay, and they're already becoming taxpayers, even if they're in the account of the recipient they owe to, that's the money. I think it's purposeful, it's unfair, and it requires some kind of change. And I would very much like the Prime Minister to give his own opinion from the prime minister's position, and if the Czech National Bank can possibly do something about it, or if this schlendrian will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am now giving the floor to Mr Radim Fial, who will interpel the Prime Minister on the Ostrava - Olomouc motorway.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u10	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, absent Prime Minister and absent ministers, I would like to address you on the Ostrava - Olomouc motorway. This is a topic that has been discussed in this House for four years, even a commission has been set up on the subject, and I do not know with what conclusion. However, the situation remains trivial. In recent days there has been a closure of the motorway between Ostrava and Olomouc except for a single lane. It is a newly built communication, on which there was the creation of an emergency condition by rolling the road probably as a result of non-compliance with the technological process of construction - popularly speaking by defrauding the construction. I am a Member of the Olomouc Region, where this traffic restriction is perceived very clearly, it is different from other regions, because the whole of North Moravia, Beskydy, Jesenicko is therefore cut off from Central Moravia, and it is a fundamental link to these areas where many people seek employment or study. I am convinced that this is not a normal traffic complication with which I would, of course, refer to the Minister of Transport, but by dealing with it for so long, I am addressing you directly, Prime Minister. I think it's a huge scandal that could be linked to corruption. And I want to ask you, and I want to hear you answer the following questions: First, did the government deal with this situation and intend to continue to deal with it somehow, or will you leave us alone in Moravia? Secondly, are the law enforcement authorities involved in this matter and have the government filed criminal charges on this matter? And thirdly, what measures and when will they be taken to restore full transport capacity between Central Moravia, Ostrava, Jesenick? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u11	Thank you, too. Your interpellation will be answered in writing. I will use my moments to read the apology of the Minister of Finance, Ivan Pilný, who apologizes for work reasons. Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes until the end of today's day. And Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes for working reasons until the end of today. Mrs Zelienková is already in her place to lecture on the Prime Minister for gravel sand mining in Ostroh, Hungary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I dare once again bring to the premises of the Chamber of Deputies the topic of gravel sand extraction in Uherské Ostroh. I recently intersected Minister Brabec and asked him to ensure to the government that if any raw material is extracted in any territory and thus threatened by a rare source of drinking water, the government should have the last word in the decision-making process. So far, I haven't learned anything about any progress or any shift in this matter. However, I have noted that Mr Sobotka has begun to deal very intensively with this subject before the elections, which I am pleased about, because, of course, the Prime Minister's interest in this problem can in a way help solve the problem. That is why I would ask the Prime Minister from this point of view to set limits for gravel sand mining in this particular area, where the miner is trying to start mining right in the middle of the site that is in the drinking water protection zone. I was also surprised by the statement by the Minister of the Environment, who said in the media that the extraction of gravel sand will actually help clean the bottom waters. So I think he might be aspiring to the ropák of the Year award. But that has nothing to do with the question or the Prime Minister's request. So, once again, I ask the Prime Minister to set limits for the extraction of gravel chips in the Uherského Ostroh region, where the drinking water supply is. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u13	Thank you. Mr Tomio Okamura, who will present his intervention on the Prime Minister's resolution of the European Parliament, will also speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u14	Dear Prime Minister, 29th 4. 2015 adopted by the European Parliament a resolution on the current refugee crisis. There is a requirement in paragraph 8 of the resolution: the European Parliament calls on the European Commission to introduce binding quotas for the distribution of asylum seekers among all Member States. All your MEPs, the ČSSD MEPs, voted in favour of the introduction of quotas. Specifically, they were Jan Keller, Olga Sehnalová, Pavel Poc, Miroslav Poche. And you, after people began to rebel against the occupation of Europe by Muslim colonists from Africa and the Middle East, began falsely telling us that the Czech government and the ČSSD are against quotas. I'll give you another case. On 18 May 2017, the European Parliament adopted another resolution in which Member States call for further reception of refugees from Syria, in a situation where the Czech Government, under threat of sanctions, is prevented from receiving migrants under quotas. This resolution of the European Parliament states: it calls on the Member States of the European Union to show greater commitment to sharing responsibility and to enable refugees fleeing the war areas of Syria to find protection beyond the borders of the immediate neighbouring region, including through the resettlement and reception programme, or quotas. In other words, Members who voted in favour want the Czech Republic to take over more refugees from Syria. Once again, members of the YES, KDU-ČSL, TOP 09, Mayors and independent members of the ČSSD have voted in favour of the resolution and have betrayed citizens. Specifically, they were members of Telička, Ježek, Charanzová, Dlabajová for the movement YES, Zdechovský, Šojdrová, Svoboda for the KDU-ČSL, Štětina, Niedermayer for the TOP 09, Polčák Stan, Poc and Poche ČSSD. Do you have any way of explaining the contradiction between what you are falsely and falsely telling us here in the Republic and what your government is really promoting in Brussels? Why are you lying to citizens? I know the reason. As always, you lie, you lie, and you cheat on citizens before the election. That's the only reason. Your Members vote in favour of the quotas, and you are here cheating citizens before the elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u15	Thank you. You've got it exactly measured, the two minutes. Next, Mr Jaroslav Holík will speak to the Prime Minister on lithium mining.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u16	Dear Prime Minister, all citizens of this Republic know that there is a huge supply of lithium in the Ore Mountains. A huge supply of lithium with a very low concentration. But since the citizens of this republic are misinformed, so there are rumors, and for this reason I ask you, say clearly and briefly, or answer me clearly and briefly the following questions: Which company has a search permit? Next, which companies have preferential mining rights? Is there a Czech company among these companies, such as Diamont? If this lithium will benefit from a foreign company, what percentage of the profits will the state gain? Prime Minister, where is the processing of this ore planned? Is only the production of lithium carbonate planned, or will it go into the final product? Dear Prime Minister, once again, answer these questions because by silence, you are cutting the branch you are sitting on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u17	Thank you. Next, Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak to the Prime Minister about the municipal government's nightmare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u18	Dear Prime Minister, my nightmare and the nightmare of self-government are some of Mr Babiš's ideas, Chairman of the coalition movement YES. In recent weeks, his ideas have emerged that maybe municipal councils - the basis of representative democracy at local level - guaranteed by constitutional order - should be abolished. I want to hear from such ideas very loudly. The existence and scope of local self-government freedom in our history coincides with the existence and scope of single conditions in general. Repressing local councils, which can also be seen as a kind of democratic school, is a step towards suppressing these conditions. Does the Prime Minister share this opinion? Can it guarantee that the party in which the Prime Minister is prime minister will not contribute to the elimination of democratic conditions at local level? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u19	Thank you. Your interpellation, as you said, will be answered in writing. Next, Mrs Jana Hnyková will speak to the Prime Minister about the harassment of ČSSZ employees. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u20	Prime Minister, I would ask you for information. Your colleague from social democracy, Mrs Marksová, posted on her Facebook June 30, 2017 a contribution from šikana in employment deserves attention, where she appeals to employees not to be afraid to talk about the problem and to draw attention to it. When I read the comments under this post, I was very surprised by the July 9, 2017 article by . Miroslav Bauer, director of application software implementation department from the Czech Social Security Administration. Quote. "Mrs. Minister, I would like your intense attention to the case on my own sand, in the Czech Social Security Administration. There are also some very difficult health problems in my subordinates. Since the beginning of May, I have been relieved of the service in an absurd comedy, which is probably conducted by specific suppliers who cannot bear to be strictly required by the ordering officers of the client to fulfil the contractual obligations, to comply with the terms and application of the contractual penalties. Thus, an untypical bullying of influential groups against ordinary people who want to do their job properly." So could you explain to me what is going on at the Czech Social Security Administration? At the same time, I would like to ask you what the Minister is exposing his employees to, because the above issue is undoubtedly also relevant to the issue that we discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy on 20 April 2017. It's leading me to this interpellation. I would also like to ask you for information on the specific state of the art of public procurement in the recovery of claims for insurance and control activities and the development of BizTalk. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u21	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Antonín Seďa will be next. He will interpel the Prime Minister on the dual quality of food and goods.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Prime Minister, on the basis of tests carried out The high school of chemical technology on 21 samples of food and goods confirmed differences in the quality of food and goods of the same brand. These were mainly differences in properties or composition. It turns out that in some countries food is better or more efficient, which I personally consider unacceptable and discriminates against our citizens. The double quality of food, and now the double quality of goods, is a very debatable topic. I know that you were at a European Council meeting a few months ago where this issue was addressed and discussed. However, I am not aware of the outcome of this hearing. Dear Prime Minister, could you tell me what the results of this negotiations on the double quality of food are and what steps our government has taken and will take to resolve the situation, especially about the quality of food in the Czech Republic? At the same time, I ask whether the results of the tests carried out on food samples and goods will be used by the government to negotiate and pressure to address food quality at European level. After all, it is no longer acceptable for the citizens of our country to be regarded by the European Commission as second-class citizens. At the same time, I remind you that the Food Chamber of the Czech Republic said two years ago that after testing food it turned out that two thirds of food will be bought cheaper in neighbouring Germany than in our country. In addition, it was often better products. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u23	Thank you. Next, Mr Mackovík, on the subject of salaries to nurses and medical assistants, will speak with his interview.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u24	Hello again. Thank you for the floor. I'd like to ask the absent Prime Minister, because somehow the government ordered the addition of nurses to bed. This applies mainly to nurses in hospitals. It does not concern nurses both in social services, so unfortunately it does not concern so-called. Medical assistants. And we have one major problem in health care. We're short of doctors, we're short of qualified nurses. And the work of the qualified, fully qualified nurses from the point of view of the law has already been taken over by those medical assistants whose status has been modified by the law that will come into force. However, the addition of medical assistants in the coming months will not somehow take place. I think it's wrong, because we don't even get those qualified nurses, and in the meantime, those medical assistants who work somewhere in ten, eleven, twelve thousand clean with twenty, thirty hours of overtime a month can leave. I think we're basically emptying out health care in this way because we always slap one hole and create another hole in the same hull of the same ship. So, Prime Minister, why didn't you add medical assistants to the work of many departments in many hospitals in the Czech Republic? I think that this is a fundamental mistake and that the government would certainly still be able to take some measures to straighten this situation out by the end of the parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mrs Jana Hnyková will speak with her interview on information technology at the CSSZ.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u26	It's the last interpelation on information technology issues. I want to ask the Prime Minister, and I follow up on our meeting on 20 April 2017 on the Committee on Social Policy, where we dealt with the situation, both in the ČSSS and information technologies. I was very interested in this in detail and I consider it very important to ask about these areas. The case of three public contracts, which we discussed on the committee, concerns the application for recovery of claims, the selection of insurance and control activities and the development of BizTalk, where the management of the ČSSZ has for more than two years prevented the proper selection of the authorised supplier by means of repeated cancellation of the results of evaluation commissions and disregard of the decisions of the ÚOHS. The specific consequence is, among other things, the long-term uncertainty of the development of these applications and the necessary support for normal operation with the current risk of collapse of applications. That is why, as Prime Minister, I want to ask you how long this situation will last. How is it possible that the Director of the Information Communication Technology Section Ing. The Shrbený one is not held accountable. And I want to ask if we will have a case like Mr. Šišek after your government. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs is famous for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u27	Thank you, Madame. And we've got 14.58, and we've dealt with all the interpellations to the Prime Minister. I think that's a record. I warn the Chamber of Deputies that we have exhausted all the applications made to the Prime Minister and will immediately follow oral interpelations to other members of the Government. First, I ask Mr Antonín Seďa, who will interpel the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the charging of the Otrokovice bypass.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, at the 55th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 2 March this year, I turned to you on the issue of charging the northeast bypass of Otrokovice. By responding to my oral intervention, you promised me to resolve this situation by amending the relevant decree in June of this year. However, nothing happened, and Mr. Mayor of Otrokovic has justly sent you a letter again, on July 11th of this year, on the matter. You are aware of the problem, but I want to reiterate the problem. [[15.00 hours]] The town of Otrokovice lies at the crossroads of the first class 1/55 and 1/49 roads. When the stage of the northeastern Otrokovic bypass was built and this stage was connected to the D1 motorway near the town of Hulína, this communication was charged. The bypass, or the tolled section of the highway, ends at the crossroads, which very much burden the connection between the towns of Otrokovice and Zlín. Dear Minister, there is a transport survey that confirms that a large volume of transport between Zlin and Otrokovice could be restricted by the use of a bypass provided that it is not charged. Not only the inhabitants of these two cities, but also the citizens of the surrounding municipalities would like to reduce the traffic burden. It would also reduce accidents and, above all, accelerate to the right. From the above, I ask when you will finally free the motorway charge of the section D55, the northeast bypass of the city of Otrokovice, and you will keep your promise, which you made on 2 March 2017. Thank you for your written reply and for your support for the initiative of the city of Otrokovic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u29	Thank you. Your question will be answered in writing within 30 days. I now give the floor to Mrs Jana Lorencová, who will present her intervention on the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek in the Diag Human case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u30	Mr President, colleagues, it is actually difficult to distinguish who this interpelation is meant to be, because the Diag Human case is indeed across the political spectrum, across all governments. I just want to point out that on social media, and not just on Facebook, information runs as follows: So we finally lost the trial to Diag Human. Only so that on 12 May at 11 p.m. at the order of the Luxembourg Executive Office, all the accounts used by the Czech Republic or could possibly be used to operate government bonds and so on... up to the time of repayment of the debt are lost to the Czech Republic. I note that this is about 16 billion, 16 billion, at this point in time. Such a drastic move has never been used against any EU Member State until now. Then under this text, which runs on social networks, is the author's comment: If someone didn't know why the Prime Minister went to Luxembourg and why the government crisis started the next day, it should be clear to him by now. In this context, however, I still have one comment to make, namely that citizens who turn to me, both through social networks and personal emails, are also concerned not only about real estate, such as the buildings of our prosecutors and the like, they are also concerned about movable property. At this stage, for example, the fate of Much's Muchův Epic. [[Time warning]] And I don't officially have until now, even though this kind of question has already been raised here, no one is responding to it and is unable to answer what it looks like with the certainty that it will be returned to us. [[Thank you, Mrs...]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u31	Thank you, the interview will be answered in writing. I give the floor to the Member. Kristýna Zelienková, who will interpel the Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný on financial control of entrepreneurs. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u32	[[He's talking off the microphone at first: but I have to read it fast because it's longer...]] Dear Minister, during my work, I speak to a number of entrepreneurs who complain that the tax authorities are violating the law and taking advantage of their position to collect taxes at all costs. They don't mind going around the law at all. Do we still live in the state of law? I'm going to give you some specific examples that I'm going to want an answer from you. I would like to point out in advance that these examples are not by far the only ones, there are hundreds of them. Okay, first of all. Is ADIS one of the guarantees of a fair tax administration process? Irregularities in the electronic statement, which are convicted by the Anti-Dating Tax Administrator of documents, the Board of Appeal takes up and calls for minor nuances due to internal procedures. Can the tax administrator, in particular, accurately anticipate and use the reference number that will be generated by ADIS on the following day? If this is true, it means that the tax office can manipulate the file as it pleases and thus influence the outcome of the inspection at its own request. Two. On the basis of which law, or caselaw, does the Financial Office for the South Moravian Region and the Appeals Financial Directorate consider the time to calculate the deadlines of the date of dispatch of the document by the tax administrator and not the date of notification to the tax entity, albeit fiction? The appeal financial directorate considers Mrs Eva Juráková from the operational security department to be impartial and objective when handling the complaint of the tax entity. As a reason, it states that it is not the person who led the proceedings on tax control. Is Mrs. Eva Juráková, a staff member at the Department of Operational Security Brno 1, a person entitled to handle complaints from tax entities? Let's go. Why the Financial Office for the South Moravian Region, namely the territorial workplace of Brno 1, and the Financial Office for the Capital City of Prague, namely the territorial workplace for Prague 7, is not respected by Act No.280/2009 Coll. and the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU, Articles 41 and 42? My questions show that the Financial Office for the South Moravian Region and the Financial Office for Prague 7 are apparently breaking the law. [[Time warning]] I therefore request immediate control of the subordinate workplaces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u33	It almost worked. Next, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka, who will interpel the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík, will speak on the issue of low payments to the hospital Zlín.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u34	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on my previous interpellation, which also concerns Baťův's hospital and the diversity of payments to certain hospitals. I checked the payments at Baťa's hospital, which she received from VZP, but I found that Baťa's hospital is rated as an A-type hospital, so it should have the same payment as a similar hospital. Most of them are directly controlled hospitals of the Ministry of Health. When I compared the figures for 2011 to 2013, I found a difference of CZK 387 million. This means that this hospital, Bata's hospital in Zlín, received CZK 387 million less than comparable A-type hospitals of similar size. It means that Tomáš Baťa Regional Hospital is doing the same medicine as other hospitals significantly cheaper. But it means that hospitals that show lower costs make these diagnoses more effective than other hospitals. If they're still not doing well while the more expensive hospitals are thriving, then that means there's something wrong with payment orders or additions. Or maybe the payments are wrong, because the expensive hospitals should fail properly, and those economic hospitals should be thriving. In practice, it's the other way around. I would like to ask you to arrange a correction in the payment decrees so that the Regional Hospital of Tomáš Baťa is appreciated, her care has been paid for as well as the care paid for in hospitals directly managed by the Ministry of Health. [[Time warning]] Thank you for your attention and your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u35	Thank you, the interview will be answered in writing. The next one will perform with her intervention by Mrs Olga Havlová. He will intersect the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on the FSC certificate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, according to the latest reports of the Statistical Office, I was unpleasantly surprised by the sad fact that the Czech Republic is the world's largest raw wood exporter for the long term, i.e. raw materials with no added value. This trend is a sign of our economic policy. For me it is an incomprehensible paradox that there is an interest from Czech processors to use Czech wood and to give it higher added value, but not only does the state not create conditions, it prevents in some cases its inability to secure the required FSC certificate. This issue is not addressed in the long term. Dozens of alerts on responsible ministers are ignored and ignored. The urgency of the situation has come so far that it threatens the business environment. In the Czech Republic, business activities, investments and orders outside the Czech Republic are in danger of declining or shifting. Associations, associations, Chamber of Commerce, associations, cooperatives and others are pushing the government, but it does not solve the situation. The state of our home processors, who are forced to import timber with certification from abroad, is in what position, because only two percent of the forest area is certified in the Czech Republic, which is about 52,000 hectares. So on one side we export wood and on the other side we import wood. That's what reason stands for. I therefore ask, Minister, what steps are you taking to resolve the situation following the call sent by letter of 20 April 2017 by the organisations mentioned in the FSC's lack of wood in the Czech Republic? How do you ensure, through your tools, that Czech woodworkers have easy and secure access to raw materials and become competitive Poland and other European countries with growing furniture industries? [[Your time, Madame.]] And who will be responsible for the situation where up to 4,000 jobs are at risk by limiting the production of the Czech wood processing industry when the forests of the Czech Republic fall under the Ministry of Agriculture and do...... that the problem does not actually exist at all. [[Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u37	The next one will be Mr Karel Rais. He will interpel the Minister of Education Stanislav Štech on the concept of language education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u38	Thank you. Dear Minister, I am interrogating you on the failure to meet the deadline for submitting the concept of language education to the Ministry of Education on the agenda of the School Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. The knowledge and skills achieved by pupils are insufficient and are not fully in line with the expected outcomes of RVP documents, especially taking into account the fact that the expected minimum level of pupils is stated. The results of pupils do not correspond to practical needs, in relation to labour market requirements. From these findings it can therefore be concluded to some extent that the purpose of foreign-language teaching is not being fulfilled. I therefore ask you to explain the reasons why you have not yet submitted to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports since 2009 the expected concept of language education. Minister Valachová did not meet the deadline she announced on 30 June 2016, or a year ago, in the debate on the House of Press 803. "The concept of language training will be submitted by October 2016 at the latest so that it can be incorporated by the end of the year at the latest in accordance with the Prime Minister's task of training 4.0. And I believe I will convince you in October with this material." End of quote. I therefore ask you to communicate the deadline for submitting the concept of language education to the school committee's agenda and how you see it with the date of its discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u39	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now we're gonna enjoy our first patronage to the minister present. Mr Jan Zahradník will speak to the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec on the Water Rescue Service in Kyselov.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u40	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing the Minister of the Environment with the following question. The Šumava National Park Administration has announced that it intends not to extend the rent for the site Water rescue services in Kyselov on the Lipno dam. The reason is that the object Water rescue services are located in close proximity to the natural reserve Kyselovský les, where there is said to be a trivet somewhere near, also a red hive should nest there and a European moose should also roam nearby. The property itself, the building, is owned by the administration of the national park, the property under the construction is property of the Vltava basin. Water rescuers are a very important component of the integrated rescue system and are indispensable at the Lipno dam. It is the Kysel's marina and habitat that is extremely important thanks to its ideal location in the middle of the Lipen reservoir, also on the other hand actually close to the state border, and so rescue events can concern both Czech and Austrian tourists riding on some vessels along the Lipen's dam. I ask you, Minister, with the following questions. Do you really want to comply, Minister, with the conservationists and abolish the rescue workstations that save people's lives? And secondly, that's more like a request, Mr. Secretary. The paramedics should clear out their facility by July 15th, that's until Saturday, yes. I ask you whether you would still consider reviewing this decision and not order the director of the Šumava National Park Administration to extend the contract with the water Hubený. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u41	I thank you and the Minister of the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President - I'd like to say to you, folks, the survivors here, almost, given how many of us are left. But thank you for the question, my colleague, because I have done some things in the meantime. I went to Kyselov last week to see the director of the National Park, and I also spoke to Mr. Director Bukáček as chief of paramedics. And I'm just a very short field trip to history, but what's more important is what's next. The Šumava National Park Administration took over the building of the former garages from the Ministry of the Interior in 2008, on condition that at some time it would actually demolish them and bring the land back to its original state. Then, in fact, contrary to this condition, Mr Stráský, the former director of the National Park Administration, signed a lease agreement with the paramedics for this building, with the fact that then there was some kind of improvised - and I would like to point out - an improvised rescue center, or rather a base, and I would also like to say an unworthy base. These are really old garages from the '70s in a not-so-good construction state. And I'm more likely to say what we agreed with Director Bukáček, because that's probably what you're most interested in. He welcomed the fact that - by the way, the garages were already cleared out, they were already cleared out when we went there, basically there was almost nothing there. They already got the tech out of the garage. And I promised Director Bukáček because, of course, rescue workers are very important to me - although they have actually less than a kilometer crow flies across the lake their modern station in Vltavice or Vltavice, Dolní Vltavice I suspect, which they see from their garages. But we agreed so, and so did the director, that we would destroy this undignified object, because I really think that there is nothing to boast about, especially in front of foreign tourists coming to Lipno, and that we would also be looking for, at the same time, in cooperation with the rescue workers, the Šumava National Park Administration, which there, as you rightly say, owns the land, the Water of the Vltava River and also, where appropriate, other entities, as Austrian parties who are interested in financing something in the future, that we would quickly look for a way to build together, perhaps in the order of tens of meters, perhaps even in the flood area, there was already water in those garages also in some higher condition of Lipno, that we would simply look for a way to build together and allow construction. That means we wouldn't be able to stop it, something that's a decent base for rescuers. And I think it would be best. Director Bukáček welcomed it, he likes the idea, and that's how we actually agreed to deal with the details afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u43	Thank you, Minister. The Member is interested in an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u44	I thank the Minister for his reply and for the hope he gave for the water rescue service. But we must, Minister, especially your people, realize that there is a building closure. That under the conditions that are in Sumava today and when anyone wants to prevent anything, they can do it very effectively, so the hope of it and the probability of building something in that place is almost zero. So once again, it must be realized that we cannot make promises and give water rescuers any hope when, at the same time, we should know that fulfilling that hope is almost impossible because of strict authorisation regimes in this place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u45	Thank you. The Minister will no longer respond. I would like Mrs Jana Hnyková to come and lecture on the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová on information technology at the Czech Social Security Administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u46	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, I am not satisfied with the written information on resolution 257 of the Social Policy Committee of 20 April 2017 concerning the Czech Social Security Administration. And I'm sure you'll agree with me that we need to provide quality services for clients that cannot endanger our citizens. The case of three public contracts that we have discussed on the committee concerns applications for recovery of claims, the selection of insurance and control activities and the development of BizTalk, where the management of the Czech Social Security Administration has for more than two years prevented the proper selection of the authorised supplier by means of repeated cancellation of the results of evaluation commissions and disregard of the decisions of the ÚOHS. The specific consequence is the long-term uncertainty of the development of these applications and the necessary support for normal operation with the current risk of collapse of applications. That's why I want to ask you how much longer this situation is going to take, what you're doing for it. How is it possible that the Director of the Information and Communication Technologies Section Ing. Shrbený isn't held accountable? And where is your responsibility, Madam Secretary? Or are we building a case like Mr. Šišek here again? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u47	Thank you, Mrs Štech, and I give the floor to Mrs Věra Kovářová, who will present an interview with Minister Stanislav Štech on the capacity of kindergartens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u48	Dear Minister, I appeal to you as I did two weeks ago to the Prime Minister and to Minister Šlechtová on the issue of the critical situation with regard to the capacity of kindergarten schools in the Central Bohemia Region. In the explanation: The mapping of absorption capacity results in a huge overhang of prepared projects. Illustrative are numbers. Of the total volume of 77 projects amounting to CZK 1 237 000 000, only projects worth CZK 300 million can be supported. Crowns. In the Central Bohemia Region, more than 60 projects remain in the total volume of about 937 million. CZK, which are ready for realization but do not have secured financial resources. I stress that these projects are ready to be implemented. I don't think there's an excessive assessment that the current situation is simply unbearable. How does this government intend to address it? Is it possible to use European money? Is it possible to increase or establish national grant titles? What will you do, Minister? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u49	Thank you. Mr Martin Kolovratník will also speak with his intervention because Mr Holík withdrew his intervention on lithium mining. Mr Kolovratník is not present, so his interpellation is failing. And I will ask Mrs Jana Hnyková once again to give another interview to Minister Michaela Marksová on the issue of bullying at the Czech Social Security Administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u50	Yes, you say it well, Mr President. Madam Secretary, I would like to ask: On 30 June 2017, you posted a post on your Facebook profile of šikana's employment, which deserves attention, where you appeal to employees, so that they are not afraid to talk about the problem and to draw attention to him. When I - and I repeat it again - as did the Prime Minister - read the comments under this contribution, I was very surprised by the July 9, 2017 contribution by . Miroslav Bauer, director of the implementation department of application software from the Czech Social Security Administration, where he pointed out that bullying of subordinates is taking place at the Czech Social Security Administration and that these subordinates have severe health problems. You assured us on the Committee on 20 April that everything was okay with the Czech Social Security Administration. I want to ask you again: What is going on with the Czech Social Security Administration and what are you exposing your employees to, Madam Secretary? Are you threatening their health? As Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, I think you should protect your employees. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u51	Thank you. Mrs. Jana Lorencová will perform with another interview. He will present his interpelation to the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec on the sale of real estate to foreigners. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u52	Mr President, colleagues, we are constantly assured by the government and, above all, by the Ministry of the Interior that we have no illegal migration here, that we have absolutely nothing to worry about. In fact, I think I'm not alone, that there are hundreds, thousands, maybe tens of thousands of people from the so-called. risk countries. In this context, I would like to know what form is being treated when I, as a private person, will be selling my property to a private person from somewhere I know, such as Eritrea. This guy -- and we know that it's treated, that it's legal, I just sell private property to a private person. Who's saving the background of the guy who's buying the property? Wherever it comes from. Nobody knows what kind of people they are. What's their history? With what, with what intentions do they come to us? A number of citizens are concerned about this situation because, on the one hand, we are closing the door, trying to prevent the influx of migrants, on the other hand, the back door is wide open, which these people can enter and buy real estate here without risk and become a kind of, albeit legally, but become citizens of our Republic in their own way. So I'd like the Home Secretary to explain to me how it's handled. [[Time warning]] What form of concentration of these people is prevented in certain areas. We all know what it looks like on Teplice, and many citizens are concerned. Very concerned.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u53	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová, on behalf of the Minister for Transport Dan Ťok, will give another interview on the communication of ŘSD with the municipalities and Mr Holík will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u54	Dear Minister, at the end of June I attended a meeting in Jíloviště, where representatives of ŘSD and PUDIS presented modifications to the D4 motorway between Zbraslaví and Řitka. The study is designed e.g. cancellation of bus stops or conventions and overpasses, which would completely decompose the integrated lines and links between them, which now work very well. Unfortunately, it has been shown that these issues have not yet been consulted, for example. with municipalities and public transport coordinators IDSK and ROPID. Yes, I understand that it is necessary to improve the state of this communication and to increase traffic safety, but it is also necessary to take into account local conditions. The negotiations were a lot of emotional, angry local people and mayors of municipalities, but I'm not surprised at all. Finally, the SSD promised that everything would be renegotiated and the comments of all participants would be taken into account. And that has to do with my request to the Minister. Could you make sure that the ŘSD communicates better in order to take account of the opinions and interests of municipalities and cities? Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u55	Thank you, Madame. Mr Jaroslav Holík, on the present Minister of Culture, will give another interview on the damage to Slavic Epic, and Mr Antonín Seďa will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u56	Dear Minister, allow me to convey to you several identical questions to our citizens. These questions concern the state of our national monument Slavic Epic. According to the message of the monument office, this epic is damaged. Although, in a way, it was examined and mapped by Mr. Michal Tomk, these 682 square meters were reported to have been examined within three hours, which is absolutely inadequate. Minister, let me ask you a few questions. How do you feel about the Senate's comments that this epic was mapped inadequately? Since 8:00. 3rd to 5th. The 6th of this year was exhibited in Japan, so the next question is: Has all the canvases returned to us? Where are these canvases currently stored? And since every transport, when we reel these huge canvases into some parts, is damage to the paint, so the last question is: Is further exports required, another exhibition? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the Minister of Culture has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u58	Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, the Ministry of Culture, as the competent authority of the state administration, granted the Prague City Gallery pursuant to Section 20 of Act No. 20/1987 Coll., on State Monument Care, prior consent to export 20 paintings of Alfons Mucha Slovanská epopej to Japan. The consent was granted for the period from 1 January to 15 August this year. However, the works returned to the Czech Republic as planned on 23 June this year. I have here a letter directly from the director of the Prague City Gallery, Mrs. PhDr Magdalena Juříková, who confirms this fact. According to the communication of the Prague City Gallery, all 20 paintings returned in an intact state. The so much discussed Diag Human case had no influence on the return of the exhibition back to the Czech Republic. Thus, there were no idle concerns about the narrow circle of experts, mainly from the Association for the Protection and Development of the Cultural Heritage of the Czech Republic, which, according to the official website, brings together seven members - i.e. to clarify, seven natural persons. This association was also presented as a broad professional public criticizing yesterday's rejected new conservation law. I stress that comprehensive care for the Slavic Epic is continuously covered and provided by experts Gallery of the capital city of Prague, so the condition of all works of art is sufficiently checked and known. Despite this, Mr. Michal Tomek, an academic painter and restorer, examined the Slavská epopej series of paintings as part of the export authorisation procedure abroad. He stated that paintings are in very good technical condition due to their age and history. This is due in particular to the fact that Alfons Mucha, in addition to having excellent artistic abilities, also chose suitable painting techniques for a given purpose. During the Year of Czech Culture, 2017, in Japan I attended the opening ceremony of the exhibition Mucha Slavic Epic, which was the main event of these celebrations in early March. The exhibition has made a major contribution to the deepening of cooperation with Japan in the field of culture when it met with extraordinary response. More than 650 thousand visited her in four months. visitors including imperial couple. Personally, along with other members of the delegation, I also met all the essential aspects of the care of the Slavic Epic, including the top restoration workshop, which guaranteed care for these works of art. In June, I took part in the Prime Minister's delegation to Japan, where we witnessed an unprecedented response to the exhibition and the assurance of the importance of cultural diplomacy. Finally, I say that the Ministry of Culture, by letter of June of this year, called on the Gallery of the Capital City of Prague to rule out any doubts about its state of affairs before further export under consideration, carried out all necessary analytical actions to determine the actual state of each painting after its return from Japan and, where appropriate, to take all necessary measures following the facts found. At the moment, therefore, no request for export of Slavic Epics is registered at the Ministry of Culture, and the various suspicions and speculations that spread about the state of Slavic Epics are not based on the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u59	Thank you, Minister. The Member will no longer ask an additional question. Mr Antonín Seďa has the floor, who will interpel the present Minister of Environment Richard Brabec in the matter of gravel-picking near Uherský Ostroh.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, as you know, 57 representatives of the South Moravian and Zlín Region have expressed their opposition to the extraction of gravel sand in the area situated between the roads II/495 at Moravian Písek, I/54 from Veselí nad Moravou to Moravian Písek and the lightening arm of the Moravia River. The territory was separated from between the road II/495 and the Polešovický creek located in the Uherský Ostroh cadastral. Today there is a petition with more than 15,000. the signatures of citizens who oppose the extraction of gravel sand within the area. Dear Minister, as you know, František Jampílek from Lázně Toušeň is to be the realizer of mining and the basic prerequisite for this project is to pass the environmental impact assessment of the EIA. I would remind you that over the last ten years, there have been three attempts to obtain the EIA, of which the last one has been successful. Ministry of Environment 9. 3. 2015 issued a favourable opinion on the extraction and treatment of gravel sand, however the city of Uherský Ostroh appealed against the opinion and continues to develop a number of initiatives to repeal this opinion, which among others. lays down a total of 58 conditions which the farmer must meet before and during the extraction process. Dear Minister, the Prime Minister has now put himself in trouble, which is why a negative impact on water sources of drinking water is possible. The Prime Minister is concerned about the drinking water spring as part of the EIA hydrogeological assessment. I personally support the opinion of cities and municipalities and petents on the ban on mining and, in particular, on the development of an independent analysis of possible impacts on drinking water. And I think that you, as Minister of the Environment, must perceive these legitimate concerns of citizens. That is why I ask, Minister: will you, on the request of the Prime Minister, enter this analysis and reconsider your ministry's position on the authorisation of gravel sandblasting in Ostrozhsk? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u61	Thank you for keeping the time precise, and the Minister of the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u62	Dear colleague, thank you for asking. I will follow up a little on what Mrs Zelienková was talking about. I'll take it a little informally. I've prepared something here. Believe me, I'm very interested in this matter personally, because in all the time I've been at the Ministry, and it's not that long, it's actually the first time we've had four against each other, or now the fifth opinion, where two are positive and say that no threat to the groundwater can occur, even hypothetically or theoretically, and two say that it can. And it's interesting that all these reviews are, of course, created and signed by authorized persons with a round stamp. That, in itself, is probably why the Mining Authority has not yet issued the decision, actually interrupted it and, according to our information, is waiting for some additional information. I got the Prime Minister's letter from 16. 6. this year and the Prime Minister there talks about the alleged existence of another study, respectively. an assessment that evaluates the wider territory, ProGeo and Dr Uhlík, I suspect, and it shows a fundamental contradiction to those hydrogeological models, which were actually first established by Aquatest and subsequently confirmed by another positive opinion of AQD-envitest Ostrava, which we have already over-standardized in some way as an arbitration review. I want to state clearly that, of course, the protection of groundwater is an absolute priority for us. And at this point in time, we did not actually find out in those first reviews, or colleagues dealing with it, the reasons that should lead to the withdrawal of the consent. But if we get the latest analysis available, which, according to the Prime Minister's statement, is not yet fully completed, perhaps the second stage is finished, and that there are facts that could change the view of the hydrogeological situation in that territory, and therefore fundamentally question the results of those assessments on the basis of which it was established, or on the basis of which a positive EIA opinion was given, we are certainly prepared to deal with this matter. I've asked that we get this information officially so we can get an opinion. At this point, however, according to our information, the analysis is not yet complete. Some stage and partial results are complete. And the question is whether these partial results can be used, because even under the administrative order of review on the basis of incomplete or incomplete data is not legally possible. So I want to assure you that once we get these results, we will definitely deal with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u63	Thank you. The Member is interested in asking an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr First Vice-President of the Government, Minister, thank you for your assurance. You mentioned the five reviews yourself. They're against each other, even though they were drawn up by the authorities with the round stamp. So there's obviously a problem. There's a problem. So it would be really good to wait for that opinion you were talking about, and at the same time maybe take another opinion, maybe even from abroad. I just want to remind you that this is not just a source of drinking water, because there really - and it stretches from Ostrové Nové Ves to Ostroh and even further to Moravian Písek and Bzenec - I think there are some, perhaps the third largest sources of groundwater, which I think is rare. But it is also about the fact that when mining is allowed, the environment will become worse by freight transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u65	The Minister will no longer respond, no question has been asked. We enjoyed our last interview with the minister present. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will present his interview with the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík on the screening of the immunity of newborns, is speaking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u66	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in the Czech Republic it is possible to provide screening - this is a general survey - a lack of immunity for newborns. Severe congenital disorders of immunity occur more frequently in our population than innate metabolic defects. Without screening, congenital immunity disorder in a child, which is protected by antibodies from the mother in the first months of life, may not occur after birth. It usually reveals itself later. Therefore, live vaccines should not be administered in children with cellular immunity problems, as they may cause disease with very serious consequences instead of protection. This applies to rotavirus vaccines, then BCG vaccines and rubella vaccines, measles and mumps of MMR. Recently, doctors for the Czech Republic have prepared a screening test for congenital cellular and antibody immunity disorders called TREC and KREC. Laboratory examination is available at the Faculty of Medicine of Masaryk University in Brno and at the 2nd Faculty of Medicine of Charles University in Prague. These tests will be detected immediately after birth of an immunity disorder. Screening examination is common in the United States and is introduced in Norway. Screening of immunity deficit was prepared by professor Vojtěch Thon from St. Anne's University Hospital in Brno several years ago. At present, our doctors are able to detect one of the severe immune system disorders and start early treatment due to clinical and laboratory tests from the dry blood drop of the newborn. It's a very cheap and very cost-effective examination. Dear Minister, what will you do for the introduction of this screening in the Czech Republic? Furthermore, I would like to ask because several parents have asked me about the possibility of access to alternative vaccines in the Czech Republic against vaccines prepared on cell lines coming from tissues of artificially perverted human fetuses. These alternatives are only available in Japan. [[Time warning]] Is it possible and under what conditions to make Japanese vaccines available to interested people in the Czech Republic, especially MMR and hepatitis A, for example within a specific treatment programme? Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u67	Thank you. Mr Martin Kolovratník has the floor, who will speak to the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka about the failure of the Minister to destroy communications through calamity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u68	Thank you for the floor. Dear Mr. traditionally absent Minister Jurečka, I would like to address you with a topic that goes beyond my Department of Transport and your Department of Agriculture. You know that, over the past two years, there has been a catastrophic increase in random logging caused by the calamari crust, causing an extremely increased movement of truck transport, which takes it away from the attacked wood from the forest. The worst situation is in North Moravia and Silesia. In 2015, the volume of registered barkwood reached 1.5 million and last year even 3 million cubic meters. The worst situation is in the districts Bruntál, Olomouc, Opava, Vsetín, Nový Jičín, Šumperk and Frýdek-Místek. According to these figures, the range is almost larger than the barking calamity in Sumava. The consequences of logging and transporting wood in affected areas are obvious - and there is traffic here - on totally destroyed roads, which mostly do not belong to the Forests of the Czech Republic. These are private and mainly local communications in the property of municipalities. My question, Minister, is: Mining and Seduction Technology of the Forests of the Czech Republic is doing important damage on the surrounding roads every day and they are all classes - regional, 2nd, 3rd, local communication of municipalities and private roads. I met with the mayors and according to information from the field with the owners or mayor no one from the Forests of the Czech Republic is negotiating and the forests of the Czech Republic are not interested in dealing with the matter. So I ask how you will compensate for this damage to the owners of communications. You've been notified several times by village representatives, and you haven't done anything yet. I'm asking why you don't do this. When and what management instructions will you enter the management of the Forest of the Czech Republic? Finally, I would like to inform you that I also request more detailed information on this subject in writing today and that I will be ready to discuss your procedure and discuss it at the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in early September. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u69	Thank you. Mrs Jana Hnyková will give another interview to the absent Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová on the matter of information on the Czech Social Security Administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u70	Today, for the last time. Dear Minister, 20 April 2017 at its meeting, the Social Policy Committee addressed the points of the current situation in the IT solution in the Ministry of ICT and information on the situation at the Czech Social Security Administration. I am not satisfied with your response to resolution 257, I did not find what we asked for and what is related to the pension agenda. First of all, I would like to know how much it costs to prepare the monthly terms for the development of the new pension agenda and what the estimated price of the contract is and when the contract will be drawn up. Why did the Ministry decide to take over the long-term competences of the Czech Social Security Administration and deal with the pension agenda in its direction as one big green meadow contract? I think it is the workers at the Czech Social Security Administration who have the greatest experience with this pension agenda. Furthermore, there have been changes in the management of the Czech Social Security Administration, while you have warned us that everything is okay there. It's startling that you're going to choose a central director and he's leaving after a very short period of time. I'm asking why. What's going on in there? To their previous interview, when people complain about bullying - it's really striking. You do not have a long-term seat as director of the Internal Audit and Control Department, which I consider alarming. What are you gonna do about it? Who controls internal audit and control processes? I thank you very much for all these answers and hope that the situation in the Czech Social Security Administration will improve for the benefit of employees and citizens of this country. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u71	Thank you, and Mr Jaroslav Holík has the floor, who will present an interview with the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on African swine fever in Zlinsko.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u72	Dear absent minister, I live in a small village near Zlín. The whole of Zlin and the entire region live with one problem, which is called African swine fever. Please, how is it possible that 50 dead feral pigs were found on a five-mile radius, where an African plague was found in 30 when there was no such thing in a 200-mile perimeter? I would like these problematic and sometimes hot questions to be answered, so that I do not have to answer many people's questions that are often not entirely objective: Yeah, this has been set up so that there are no pigs in the Czech Republic so that migrants do not have to worry. Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u73	I thank you, your interpelation will be answered in writing. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who lectures on the Minister of Finance, Ivan Pilný, on the management of the CPR, speaks to Mrs Věra Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u74	Dear Minister, I would like to ask whether and how the Ministry of Finance will respond to the situation in the Forest Administration of Lana, a contribution organization under the Office of the President of the Republic. A few weeks ago, police intervened and accused some of the public procurement workers. This is not the first signal that something is wrong here. The Supreme Audit Office has also drawn attention to public procurement problems before. I would like to remind you that in recent years, the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic has been increasing, and it is a question of whether it was really well-founded, or whether we have just sat down on better proposals whose real purpose could have been to make public money or at least allow very uneconomical treatment of it. Is it not, therefore, the Minister's intention to verify thoroughly whether the demands of the President's Office for Budget are indeed justified, or the amount of funds under which Chancellor Mynář manages, after careful consideration, to cut back? The information so far suggests that the Castle is not a good caretaker. We should be able to respond to that. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u75	Thank you, Madame. Mr Antonín Seďa withdrew his interview drawn in order 22 and 24 because he had already arranged another way with the Minister. I will therefore ask Mr Ludvík Hovorka to present his interpelations drawn in the order of 23, 25 and 26. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u76	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, on the line Praha - Nitra there are traffic units Arriva Express. These units are basically suburban units, it is a set of two cars in which there is supposedly one toilet, and it happens that sometimes this toilet is broken and the express has to stop, at least once it happened in Uherský Brod, so that passengers can even use the toilet at the Uherský Brod railway station. I see as a citizen on the track from Old Town to Vlářský pass an opportunity for international transport from Prague through Vlářský pass to Nitra. It's definitely an asset, but on the other hand, there's no (?) something where international transport is allowed to a unit which, in my opinion, is not equipped for this, does not have sufficient number of toilets, and if there is a delay, this express has absolute priority because it is an international express. If it is not a disadvantage of competition in this case, both the LEO Express and the Czech Railways and RegioJet. I think that if such deployment of units is allowed, and we know that this is a commercial risk, then at least the qualitative parameters of these vehicles should be checked and equipped so that there is no one toilet to have a backup toilet. And if these units are going somewhere suburban, then if it's used for international transport, then maybe something isn't quite right. As I say, I welcome competition, but there should be a level playing field for all carriers. And I don't think that's the case here anymore. So please respond if in the case at hand SŽDC, which apparently allowed access to the transport routes to this carrier, if it acted legitimately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u77	Please, you can proceed smoothly to interpel to the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u78	Dear Minister, I have previously intersected your predecessor, Minister Němeček, on this matter. This is a problem where some especially eye clinics, but I note, it is not just eye clinics, it is documented in the case of eye clinics, it motivates doctors who send patients for examination or treatment for some procedure, so they motivate them financially, whether it is a monthly motivation, or it is motivation, for example. For one eye or for some performance, I don't think it's okay. I handed these documents over to the Ministry of Health and asked if it was a legal system for granting financial rewards, financial motivation for doctors. I don't think it's right at least from an ethical point of view, and that, in some ways, it's disrupting the competitive environment between doctors. I'd like to make a statement, please. I hope that these documents will still be found in the Ministry. If you can't track them and the officials have lost them, I'm willing to give them to you again. And please state whether such a provision of financial compensation to doctors for the purpose of targeted sending to their own clinics is in order and in accordance with our legal order and what the Ministry of Health has to say about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u79	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and please, you have the floor, and you can bring your next interview to Mr. Transport Minister Dan Ťok on the issue of picking up the starting edge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u80	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, a very extensive reconstruction was carried out at the Uherský Brod railway station, the transfer terminal was built and the bus service was reconstructed. It has one flaw in beauty, which I have already pointed out at the meeting with the Prime Minister at the Prime Minister at the Office of the Government, that only the starting edges on two tracks were built. [[16.00 hours]] This is a big problem because it has been forgotten that more than two trains can cross in this railway station. In such a case, there is a large concentration of passengers connecting between trains on platforms, and those starting edges are not enough. Therefore, I would like to ask you repeatedly to reserve some of the resources for SŽDC so that the starting edge at the next track can be completed. Thank you for any answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-020-190.u81	I thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I am of the opinion that we have closed the oral questioning for today's meeting. Thank you all, I wish you the rest of the day. I am interrupting this meeting until tomorrow, by Friday, when we will continue under the approved agenda item 193, the third reading of the House press 1100. Goodbye. [[Voice from the O.R.]] I also thought I'd call "the weighing of the survivors." . [[The President is laughing.]]
