ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u1	201. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016 /German press 996/ - first reading In this case, I ask the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek to present the opening words. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So once again, what I'm presenting to you has been said. It is therefore an agreement on a strategic partnership between Canada and the European Union. I just want to make sure there's no mistake, so I'm pointing out that it's not the so-called one. CETA. This is not a trade agreement which, as you know, has been widely discussed recently not only in the Czech Republic and which will also be discussed. So we're not talking about the CETA, we're not talking about the deal, the business part, we're talking about the strategic partnership agreement. This means that it is something similar as we have now voted in relation to New Zealand. The difference between Zealand and Canada is that here is the word strategic. The strategic word is there because, of course, the relationship between the European Union and Canada is quite significant, let's say a little more significant than in the case of New Zealand. Of course, for us, Canada is a strategic partner. Why? Canada is the tenth largest economy in the world. This means that he is an important partner of the European Union. For Canada, the European Union is even the second most important partner ever after the United States. If you ask me about relations with the Czech Republic, I don't think we're taking much advantage of Canada's potential, he's much bigger than we're able to use. That's why I'm going to be there anytime soon. You know there's a new prime minister there, quite charismatic. So Canada is now an interesting place for talks between the Czech Republic and Canada. Although I say that trade relations are not as developed as they might be, I will just tell you that Canada is definitely one of the largest non-European investors in the Czech Republic. So this is also a fact that shows how strong and important Canada is, and I think it might be for the future in the first place. The importance of Canada to the Czech Republic is also given by one fact, I will remind you that Canada is the second largest Czech community, of course, after the one in the United States that has - I don't know - a million and a half, but in Canada it is 150,000 of our countrymen, which is the second largest community in the world at all. So it is for you to know that Canada is also an important partner for the Czech Republic, and, as I said, it is a strategic partner for the European Union. This agreement regulates a number of things that we have also discussed in connection with New Zealand. This means, it is cooperation in the area of security, cooperation in the field of combating terrorism, cybercrime, here Canada is really very much involved. As you know, he is also a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, and we are specifically working with him on a number of things that are strategically important to us. A cooperation agreement, you might want to ask why we even have it here. It's because the amendment, it's kind of an amendment to the legal framework of the relationship. Because these relationships are evolving because the situation in the EU is developing, given that there is an interest in expanding cooperation, and that is why this regulation is coming, a kind of amendment to the legal framework of the relationship between the EU and Canada. That's what you've got in front of you. I believe that the interest of the Czech Republic is also here to support this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u3	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say, ladies and gentlemen, that the Minister has tried to explain everything here, and allow me to present my suggestions. The Government of the Czech Republic is submitting a government proposal to Parliament of the Czech Republic under the House Press 996 to give its consent to the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other hand, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016. The agreement presented focuses on developing a strategic partnership with Canada in two basic ways - international cooperation and political dialogue. Part of trade and economic cooperation is the subject of a separate liberalisation agreement of CETA, which was signed at the same time at the summit and is under our system under the House press 1000, I must say under paragraph 202, which follows. Here, I'd like to correct the Minister a little bit that they're really close to each other. The Agreement provides for cooperation in the following areas: democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the principles of the rule of law, international peace and security and effective multilateralism, combating terrorism, cooperation in multilateral, regional and international fora and organisations, including the International Criminal Court, economic and sustainable development, promoting free trade and increasing investment, cooperation in the field of taxation, promoting sustainable development, cooperation in the field of knowledge, research, innovation and communication technologies, promoting the diversity of cultural expressions, education and cooperation, cooperation in the fight against illicit drugs, cooperation in the field of law enforcement and the fight against organised crime and corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing, cybercrimes, migration, asylum and border management, consular protection and protection of personal data. As regards the legal nature of the agreement, it is so called. a mixed contract. Some of its parts fall within the competence of the Member States and some fall within the competence of the EU. The Council's decision to conclude an agreement for the EU will be taken only after the agreement has been agreed by the European Parliament and ratified in all EU countries. It shall be negotiated for an indefinite period, with a possible period of six months' notice. The text submitted shall be a general cooperation agreement. This is not, as has already been mentioned here, a CETA contract, as I mentioned above. It's a different kind of international treaty. CETA was only signed together with this document at the European Union - Canada summit, but this agreement is closely linked to it politically. It is a document with very general wording, which can be interpreted differently according to the current political distribution of forces. In particular, I see the problematic parts in the article. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, (b) in which the Union's operations and missions related to international security are discussed. This wording opens up an opportunity for military intervention abroad, although both parties claim to comply with UN Security Council resolutions and international law. The next article, 9, says the preamble that sustainable globalization is possible only on the basis - through an open world economy based on market principles. It is not clear what market principles are. Regulation is mentioned as well as strong institutions, but again other definitions. It could lead to defending the status quo. Article 10, the most problematic article because it declares the promotion of free trade. This is contrary to sustainability and is a source of inequalities, crises, wars, economic devastation and migration. Furthermore, it is also interesting to replace the transatlantic dialogue with the Joint Ministerial Committee. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] As rapporteur for this press, I am very surprised that our government has presented this agreement and also the following under the House press 1000 at such a speed when the European Parliament will not vote on these documents until 1 February 2017. Moreover, the resolutions from two committees are already known here. The Employment Committee did not recommend approving these agreements in the European Parliament. The explanatory memorandum also states that the conclusion of the agreement is fully in line with the foreign policy interests of the Czech Republic. The agreement is in accordance with constitutional order as well as other parts of the legal order of the Czech Republic, with obligations arising from membership of the EU, as well as obligations assumed under other applicable treaties and with generally recognised principles of the international treaty, law. However, I believe that this agreement is not in line with the interests of the Czech Republic in all the areas mentioned in this Treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u5	I apologise, Madame, but the level of noise in the hall is very high again. [[To Mr Blažek, who is at the speaker's office, speaking to Mr Blažek.]] Mr. Ambassador, let the rapporteur speak in peace. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u6	Thank you. However, I believe that this agreement is not in line with the interests of the Czech Republic in all the areas mentioned in this Treaty, and I strongly reject that this document should be discussed only in the Foreign Committee. I will therefore make proposals for the inclusion of this press in committees: the Economic Committee, the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Constitutional Rights, the Committee on Security, the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Social Policy, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Committee on Health, the Committee on the Environment, of course, the Foreign Committee as a guarantee and agricultural committee. However, first of all, I would like to make a procedural proposal for this press to be interrupted and adjourned until the time of the vote in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u7	I shall record your procedural proposal and put it to a vote. So I will first call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote. I'll repeat your procedural proposal, if I've noticed it correctly. This sounds like you are asking to suspend this item until the vote in the European Parliament on this material. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It's a vote with order number 73. 129 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 35, against 66. This proposal was rejected. Please continue your report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u8	Unfortunately, the Chamber of Deputies does not want to know such an important resolution of the European Parliament before its own discussion, and I therefore once again make a procedural proposal for this press to be interrupted until the presence of all relevant ministers who have individual parts of this agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u9	Thank you. I ask whether it is important to repeat what we are voting on. I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you all out first, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. I wonder if everyone knows the procedural proposal that we will be voting on. There's no need to repeat. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 74. 117 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 33, against 73. Even this procedural proposal failed. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u10	I must therefore point out, unfortunately, that I am very sorry that such an important document is not so important for the House to be heard by all the ministers in their positions, and so allow me to end my intelligence report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u11	Thank you. I'm registering two priority rights. For the record, I am simply saying that the debate is not open, only people with priority rights can report. First I saw Mr Laudát, after him Mr Kováčik, after him the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, what my colleague is doing here, I consider it an abuse of reporting material. It is a clear obstruction from the KSČM, which notoriously does everything possible to drag us into the trade with the East, away from the West. It's just like that! Why are they doing this here? [[Let's hear it.]] So I have two procedural proposals. The first is that we will act until we have completed this point, and the second point - I propose an exchange of rapporteurs at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u13	Ambassador, I'd like to ask you to return to the speaker's desk. These are procedural proposals, I will put them to a vote without debate. Anyway, if you're proposing to exchange the rapporteur, who else are you suggesting? First of all, the appeal of the rapporteur and who else do you propose?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u14	Thank you. I suggest Mr. Kostřica.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u15	So first, I will put to the vote on a procedural proposal to discuss this point until it is discussed. In any case, only until further points are firmly placed. Then we would have to interrupt this point. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 75-order vote. 123 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 77, against 36. The proposal has been approved. We will now vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. There is a procedural proposal that we replace the rapporteur for this press and the new rapporteur for Mr Kostřica. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 76. 124 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 51, against 38. This proposal was rejected and the rapporteur for the first reading remains. Another registered with priority rights is Mr Kováčik, after whom the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is something to be said from the mouth of Mr. Laudát about obstruction. It sounds to me like a speech about a rope in a hanging man's house, because we have been here many times very long, true, very comprehensive speeches from the mouth of a fellow Member of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club, František Laudát, and I think that none of the speeches of members and members of the KSČM club have ever been so long, nor so comprehensive, nor so sleepy. At this point, given that we are really interested in the substance of the process and we, although it may seem strange, are really interested in what the European institutions think about it, we are also really interested in what the change of approach will be like. The United States of America, after the new President Trump took office, and so far the view of a similar agreement is negative, is known, we will see, if negative is still in time, at this point I would like to request a recess at the KSČM club meeting until 13:00. First of all. Secondly, I advise that if this point is always included before the matter is negotiated in the European institutions, I will proceed accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u17	Thank you. Since you have requested a recess, I will grant you and interrupt this item, and the Chamber of Deputies will meet for further negotiations at 14:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-008-201.u18	Hello, everyone. It's 2:30, and we'll continue the adjourned meeting. For starters, let me read the apologies. Mr Martin Sedlář apologizes for his work on 12. 1. between 14.30 and 18.00, Mr Adámek apologizes from 15.30 to the end of today's day for personal reasons, Mr Jiří Mihola apologizes for today's meeting from 12.30 to the end of the working period for reasons of work, Minister Daniel Herman apologises from 12.30 to 15.00 for reasons of service, Mr David Kádner from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day for reasons of work and Mr Hamáček apologizes for today's meeting from 16.30, for reasons of work. The next item is
