ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-008-135.u1	135. Proposal for amendments to the composition of the institutions Chambers of Deputies The floor is spoken by the President of the Election Commission Martin Kolovratník. I beg the peace of the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-008-135.u2	Thank you for the floor and for the peace of mind. Mr President, colleagues, I wish you good afternoon. We're going into a series of polling points. I don't have time for this. I've been given 15 minutes since Gremium, so I'll try to be brief and accurate, but I beg your patience. I am obliged to provide the necessary minimum of information for the screen recording. Now we have one point to vote on by publicly acclamation. These are changes in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. And then we have four points, four secret elections that we're going to make in the State Act. The first point, as Mr President said, number 135, is the proposal for a change in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. And here's a short recap for me. We interrupted that point at the last meeting on 28 June at the request of the President of the Social Democracy Club, Mr Roman Sklenák, to this day. During that time, two things happened. First of all, we're like the House, virtually. The electoral committee has devoted the issue to the possible appeal or non-revocation of Mrs Kristýna Zelienková to the advisory Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and, secondly, I have announced a new deadline for the proposal for a change, which has been used by colleagues from social democracy to nanominate their new representatives from Members Šincl and Jandák. Maybe I'll take my show from behind the easy way. What colleagues from social democracy have proposed is in line with the relative representation in our committees, there is no controversial proposal. It is therefore proposed, in resolution 179, to the electoral committee by the new colleague Václav Valhoda and the same colleague on the Committee on Science, Education, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. And in the Committee on Social Democracy on Budgets, Mrs Barbora Jelonková and the Committee on the Environment also propose this new colleague. What I promised you and what I deserved from me is a brief comment, but the previous resolution number 176. In it, we initially accepted the nomination of Pavel Čihák for YES 2011 to the Committee on European Affairs and also the proposal for the nomination of Pavel Šrámek to that Permanent delegation of Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. You have all received, both club presidents and you Members, an answer, an analysis of the Parliamentary Institute by Mr Martin Kavina. I'm not gonna read it whole because of my time savings. More likely, if any of you have any questions, the explanation may seem a bit like a smart hobby, but it's okay, and it's possible, and we can deal with the situation with honorably. The explanation is really at the beginning. It confirms my words, which I said here at the previous hearing and at the Election Commission, that they are actually nominated for the Parliamentary Assembly by the national parliaments, and now I quote Article 25 of the instruments of incorporation, or from the Statute of the Council of Europe: Their representatives shall be nominated by national parliaments in such a way as to determine them. And in accordance with the still valid resolution number 20 of 1996, our House is proceeding so that the permanent delegation of the Chamber of Deputies, including these, has the status of commissions, permanent committees of the House, as we have here in the House. In other words, this analysis shows that we really could have made this decision and it was okay when we proposed and voted that we were withdrawing Ms Zelienková from this committee. Against this - the legislation is actually in contradiction - but it is clearly stated in the Statute of the Council of Europe, and here I give my colleagues from the TOP 09 the truth that the mandate of this member of the Council of Europe does not cease by appeal here in the national parliament, but if the nominee does not resign himself, then it will expire only after the next Parliamentary Assembly, which will take place after the national elections, after the election of the country where the delegations will be replaced. [[13.50 hours]] And the conclusion - perhaps I have made that clear. It therefore means that we cannot really send or delegate to that Council of Europe, because in this sense there would be a discrepancy and a problem. Conclusion of this Parliamentary Institute: It suggests, believes that it would be possible to deal with the situation so that Mrs Zelienková, although the term 'non-member' is already used here, maybe I will say it humanly, is not a member of the permanent delegation, namely as a permanent commission of the House, i.e. a permanent delegation, but remains a representative of the Czech Republic in this Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe until its mandate has expired under the rules contained in the Statute. The Council of Europe - ordinary session, will take place once again in this parliamentary term, will run from 9 to 13 October of this year, and the Parliamentary Institute proposes that a colleague go to Strasbourg in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and a replacement from the Organising Committee has been granted so that she does not have to travel for her own, but that the costs of the trip be reimbursed by the House. We discussed this with the electoral committee, and we finally agreed with our colleagues, and we proposed such a vote that we revised the part of resolution 176 which had just addressed the nomination of Mr Šrámek, i.e. We are no longer proposing it, it will not be designed there, and this is actually dealing with or maintaining a status quo, that we are not proposing a new one as a colleague, only a valid part of Mr Čihák's resolution would remain in force in the Committee on European Affairs. So much for my explanation. Now the debate will be open, of course, if you have anything to ask, I will be happy to respond or explain the situation. I guess I owe a colleague or colleagues an apology for myself. We really did not look into the Council of Europe's Statute in detail, I was based on the competence of the national parliaments that can make the change themselves, but I can speak for myself, and perhaps I can also speak for my fellow Members from the Election Commission, and I am conformary to this solution and I have no problem with it. So thank you for the explanation. Perhaps one last sentence. I propose that if you agree that we vote all nominations at once and it would be a total of four nominations: Pavel Čihák to the Committee on European Affairs under that part of resolution 176 and then I will not read it again, four nominations of social democracy under resolution 179. And now, Mr President, I ask you to open the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-008-135.u3	Thank you to the President of the Election Commission. I'm opening the debate. I see Mr. Michal Kučera's application. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-008-135.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I see the apology that has been made here by the President of the Election Commission, but I really must point out that the House has been misled here, that we have voted on points here, on things that we have not been able to vote on, and that the Election Commission, respectively. Indeed, its President should have come up with a better prepared vote at that time. The vote of the House is not really a vote, virtually. is one of the most serious votes in our Republic and I do not consider the resolution to be correct by making a mistake in the House and then revoking it. I would like to draw attention to the contradiction about Mrs Zelienková's appeal, respectively. her successor's election, so the doubt was already at the time of the vote. They didn't show up until after. This means that the procedure, that the opinion of the lawyers should have been requested, respectively. The Parliamentary Institute was to be made at that time. This means that, of course, I respect the apology from the President of the Election Commission, however, the reservations that were raised here, that the vote was not prepared, that the House was misled, which I consider to be still valid.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-008-135.u5	Thank you. Who's next for the debate? Nobody, I'm done with the debate. We can continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-008-135.u6	So if the debate is closed, then please let us begin the vote. There was no proposal for a single name vote, so I ask for one vote and a statement. I'll do it again. To the Committee on European Affairs Pavel Čihák, to the Election Committee of Václav Valhoda, to the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth as well as Václav Valhoda and Mrs Barbora Jelonková, the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-008-135.u7	Yes, we will decide in the vote number 198, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of such inclusion in committees. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 198. Of the 146 present for 122. The motion was accepted. I can end point 135. Continue Item Number
