ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house print 1029/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. [[She's not in the O.R., she left him a little while ago.]] I'm sorry. As the Minister is present in the Chamber of Deputies, but is not in the Chamber of Deputies, I will interrupt the Chamber of Deputies for five minutes and then we will continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u2	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up. We will continue to discuss an open point. I will therefore ask Minister Michaela Marksová, under the authority of the Government, to present a bill. Please, you have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u3	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members, the essence of this proposal from the Government is the introduction of a new sickness insurance benefit, namely a long-term infirmary, and the implementation of the related arrangements in particular in the labour field. Basically, it's about creating... [[The secretary is silent because of the noise in the room.]] ... the conditions for insured persons to take care of family members all day in their home environment. This is defined in a certain way that these members must have experienced a deterioration in the state of health required by hospitalization and who will need at least 30 days of full-time care of another person after being released from this hospital.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u4	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary, at this point, I'm going to request a special left section of the hall to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u5	Thank you. At the same time, in order to provide a reasonable compensation for the loss of income to the caregiver in the form of a sickness insurance benefit. If I take this very briefly, the period for granting this benefit is not more than 90 calendar days from the date of release of the person in care from hospital, while the entitlement to a new long-term infirmary may only arise after 12 months after completion of the previous care and the amount of the allowance per calendar day will be 60 per cent of the daily assessment base, which is the same as for the short-term infirmary, which is already valid. At the same time, it is stipulated in the Labour Code that the employer is entitled, not obliged, to apologize for the absence of the employee at work, which means that providing this long-term care will depend on an agreement with the employer. However, the employee who then leaves to take care is protected from dismissal during the period of care and has the right to return to the same post after the end of care. The Act is expected to be effective sometime in the second half of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u6	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 1029/1. I am asking that the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mrs Alena Nohavová, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic discussed the House Press 1029 at its meeting on 1. 6. and recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, and other related laws, as amended. The amendment is in the system and I will then justify it in the general debate. That, Mr President, is what I am signing up for in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u8	Thank you. I am opening a general debate. Since you are a rapporteur, you have the right of priority, and I will give you the floor, Madame. Madame, you have the floor with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u9	Thank you again. The proposal addresses the treatment of persons in need of care on the one hand and the material provision of care to the subject by the benefit of sickness insurance on the other, when the infirmary will be considered an excluded period and thus counted into retirement. Care for long-term patients is mostly institutional care, which is generally more expensive than providing such care in the home environment of a family member or a wider family circle. The amendment corresponds to the need to resolve an unsatisfactory situation in this area. But apparently for political reasons because of transit in the coalition, it contains provisions that basically make it unnecessary, by saying that the employer can release the employee. I have to say that today the employer can voluntarily provide, whether unpaid or paid leave to whatever extent, it can also be adjusted in a collective agreement, he can agree with the employee to work from home or to shorten working hours. While I understand that it will be more difficult for employers in the sense that they will have to seek compensation as a missing employee, I consider this argument only an excuse and I have to ask what the employer will do when the employee fails.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u10	I apologise, Madame, for entering into your speech, but again I will ask my colleagues and colleagues in the left side of the hall to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u11	What will an employer do if an employee brings him a disability or if he is long-term ill? The employer must also seek compensation for the employee. The long-term infirmary is in a similar regimen. In the wording in which the law is presented, it can lead to an unequal approach, where some employers will allow this and others will not, and possibly the inequality of workers in individual workplaces, when some will be allowed to and others will not. In order for the law to make sense, I proposed an adjustment, by releasing the words 'can grant written consent to absence', in Section 191a, so that the law is binding on the employer, or in order to justify why the employer does not release the employee. Otherwise, the law would be useless. The idea of the law is good, but if there were a provision left that the employer could release the employee, it would just stay with the idea. The Social Policy Committee did not make the proposal that the employer was obliged to release the employee, but the wording that the employer was not obliged to give consent to the absence of the employee at work only if he demonstrated that it was hindered by serious operational reasons, which is, in fact, in such a similar regime where the employee applied for leave. [[16.00 hours]] The Social Policy Committee also discussed the need for seven days of hospitalization. Yes, from a medical point of view, the diagnosis is clear, and in many cases, the seven-day hospitalization is unnecessary, so probably the subject of another discussion will be the duration of the hospitalization. Another discussion was about extending the range of caregivers, where according to the new proposal a wider range of relatives can take care of. It actually expands to grandsons, granddaughters, nieces, nephews, etc. There were opinions about abuse. Of course, everything is exploitable. But I think there are control mechanisms that should prevent it. And I personally consider extending the circle to a wider circle of relatives to be a good thing. That's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u12	Thank you, Madame. I'm registering two applications for the general debate. First, Mr Kaňkovský and then Mr Vilímec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u13	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to emphasise, as I did in the first reading of this amendment, that the KDU-ČSL MEP supports the establishment of a long-term infirmary institute. It also takes our complaint to set the conditions for granting this institute, especially the seven-day hospitalization condition, which, according to the proposal for this adjustment, must be preceded by a decision to grant this benefit. The condition of seven-day hospitalization to grant a long-term infirmary, as set out, would bring a number of problems and, above all, from a medical point of view, in cases where there is no clear medical reason, unnecessary and therefore unacceptable. The most important risk is the risk of nosocomial, in simple terms hospital, often very dangerous infections, and thus a direct threat to the health and life of the patient. There is no doubt that this is also an unethical approach. Hospitalization, which will only be performed for the purpose of granting the dose, can change very quickly into hospitalization with serious complications, and the patient will then have to undergo a number of further examinations and follow-up therapy. It is obvious that elderly patients who are weakened in many ways are prone to severe nosocomial infections, and such complications may result in the death of the patient. In addition to the patient's discomfort, the burden of already overloaded medical facilities often works at the limit of their capacity and possibilities. And there is certainly no need to stress unnecessary funds that could be used to treat serious diseases. Together with my colleague Gabriela Pecková from TOP 09 and the Mayors, we strive to eliminate the conditions of seven-day hospitalization, which would have a positive effect both medical and ethical, and last but not least financial. The structure of the entire draft law, however, at the moment and given the time aspect of the discussion, only allows for a parametric change to the minimum length of hospitalization required, without disrupting the entire structure of the law. For these reasons, my colleague Pecková and I have prepared an amendment which does not disturb the compulsory hospitalization for the long-term infirmary, but we propose that the deadline be reduced to three days. It will then be necessary to evaluate the functioning of this new regulation in the next period and, if necessary, to proceed with further adjustment. I will then sign up for that amendment in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u14	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u15	I would just like to draw attention to the explanatory memorandum and to the fact that we are introducing new mandatorial expenses, relatively high, more than CZK 2 billion, and the Minister wants new and new workers. I'm just gonna ask if the Minister is going to be at interpelling tomorrow, or if we're going to burden this or the next item with the problems of the Czech Social Security Administration. [[The Minister's answer wasn't heard.]] This point. Okay. And since the issue is difficult and the mandatorial expenses are not small and it is always difficult in the election period to debate and vote reasonably, I suggest that we buy some more time for this debate, I suggest that we interrupt this item by Tuesday, July 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u16	This is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby, and I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[A commotion in the hall. The ČSSD, YES benches and in the right side of the hall are almost empty. The President gongs repeatedly, but the number of Members does not increase.]] Since the House is not sufficient to have a quorum, I will be forced to interrupt the House's negotiations. I'm interrupting the House meeting for ten minutes until 16.17. Thank you. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Sorry. I'll see you at 4:20. At 4:20 p.m., we will continue the House meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u17	Good afternoon, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members, a announced break has passed. We are now in a position to vote on the proposal by President Stanjura - Mr President, please correct me for interrupting this point by 11. Seven, no clock. It's 11:00. 7. 2017. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favor of interrupting, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 56, 107 Members and Members, for 18, against 56. The motion was not accepted. We will continue the general debate. Another duly registered member is Mr Vladislav Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u18	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have quite detailed the arguments at first reading which should encourage us to be very careful when introducing a new social benefit. As Zbyněk Stanjura said before the interruption, the fiscal impact is over CZK 2 billion. I don't think what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs says about saving up at the same time in bed facilities providing nursing services is proven. I think that this is really going to be close to the two billion crowns, which is why it needs to be given some attention. Finally, the proposal was supported by the Committee on Social Policy, and one amendment was passed by Mrs Nohavová. Here I have to say, according to my notes, he's been through mostly one voice. This has been the case in the Committee on Social Policy lately, depending on the participation of the representatives of the right, the left, and amendments are adopted accordingly. I also remember that in relation to so-called. The employer's obligations or autonomy to agree with the absence were contradictory proposals by Mrs Pecková. I don't want to discuss the question of hospitalization here anymore. Some representatives, or some Members, agreed on a conditional basis with this bill proposal, because it has actually proved in the debate that the law also brings considerable risks. Now I don't just mean in relation to, for example, overuse of hospitalization in a hospital because the 7 days are kind of a time which is quite significant from the point of view of medicine, but of course there was a debate about the circle of persons, the width of entitled persons who would be entitled to medical care. I have noted that there are also amendments in this matter to Mrs Maxová, so we will see how it all turns out. I don't want to discuss the bill in detail here anymore, that's what I did at first reading. The Social Policy Committee has shown that there are many problems with the wording of this law. And, of course, I see that the illness of a family member is an intervention in its functioning, but the proposal that we have before us really raises a number of questions and obvious risks. We know that the new finance minister likes the month he's in office, stating how many additional mandatorial expenses either the House has approved or is preparing for approval that this is starting to become a big problem. We will see if this proposal passes in any form, how our successors will deal with it, because it is a bit repeated recently in 2006, which we have talked about here, when some things had to be revised, something had to be cancelled, but I do not want to discuss this any further. I didn't make any suggestions because I have a little skeptical insight into the long term infirmary. At first reading, I presented examples of a number of countries where it is not introduced, and a number of countries that are perceived as socially advanced, so it is a kind of new dose. We prefer a different solution because it is not linked to any care service, field services etc. So we will be sure of what amendments first of all will be read, that can be assumed, and what amendments they will go through at all. Because, in the form that the government has prepared and put forward by the Minister, this proposal certainly brings a number of risks, and from my point of view, it is not possible to support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u19	I thank Mr Vilímc. And so far, the last person to be enrolled in the general debate is Mrs Radka Maxová... Excuse me, with Mrs Hnyková's point of view. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u20	Thank you for the floor. I cannot do this, and I must respond both to President Stanjura and to Mr Vilímec through you, Mr President. You know, I consider this amendment and this proposal and the introduction of this benefit as one of the most important aid to a family that finds itself in a very unfavorable situation where it must take care of a person who is either exposed to surgery, severe illness, injury, or even care for an old man. Yes, we have discussed this very thoroughly on the Committee on Social Policy. I am very pleased that my colleague Kaňkovský will present here today an amendment that will mitigate the need for this person to be in the hospital before, especially with an old man. So I appreciate my ODS colleagues worrying about the mandatorial expenses, but I can also imagine where the funds could be found. If we hadn't spent so much money on solar power plants, we'd have more money to help families. And I think that this dose is very important and will help families who work and find themselves in such an adverse situation. So I'd really like to get out of here and at least leave us with something good for the benefit of the citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u21	Thank you. Mrs Radka Maxová and her proper application. [[difficulty in speaking last name]] I'm sorry, Madam. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Before I present my amendments in a detailed debate, I have, to say the least, two opinions. One is the Czech Medical Society J E Purkyna, the Society of General Medicine and the other is the Association of Practicing Physicians of the Czech Republic, both of which do not agree in principle to shorten or skip completely hospitalization. I'd like to introduce you to that if you didn't have the chance, because I think the arguments are quite important. [[16.30 hours]] The Czech medical company J E Purkyna expressed a fundamental disagreement with the MP's initiative to delete the condition of seven-day hospitalization to grant a benefit to a long-term infirmary in the present amendment to the Act on sickness insurance from professional, administrative and economic risks. The long-term infirmary should be designed exclusively to ensure the need for full-day care for patients with severe illness in whom diagnostic and therapeutic options for hospitalization have already been exhausted. In order to confirm this condition, including an assessment of the further development of the suitability of treatment and the need for long-term continuous nursing care, hospitalization is certainly a necessary condition. Thus, in no way should this be a common disease that occurs in outpatient practice, where temporary incapacity for work lasts for more than one month. Following the proposed amendment, these exact requirements, including the relevant actions, could be assumed to a massive extent. There is a real risk of great variability in decision-making among several thousand doctors concerned by this obligation, associated with a disproportionate increase in administration, where they are currently very difficult to cope with their administrative obligations in relation to the Ministry of Health, Health Insurance, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and other national and private bodies. The financial intensity for the state budget will be considerably higher than declared in the explanatory memorandum. Any relative or known person with a long-term disability of more than 30 days will be entitled to the benefit. You just have to figure out the number of job incapacityes per year exceeding 30 days in the Czech Republic and multiply it by the cost. There is always a relative who will need to earn this extra money and want to provide help to a relative, and this activity of specially provided assistance will not be controlled or controlled in any way. The term unexpected cannot also be a criterion for the dose. For example, in terminal stages of oncological diseases, complications can be expected. You just don't know when. So if the doctor knows, he won't get the dose, and if the doctor doesn't know, then yes? There are several similar examples that can certainly be given. We specifically asked this question to the Social Policy Committee of Deputy Minister Merhautová. I think that the condition of hospitalization is essential for the long-term infirmary to be paid, because if there is no link to health care, they are really here - you can see also from the professional companies - and some concerns to avoid abuse. Another opinion, which is relatively fresh, from 26 June, is the opinion of the Association of Practicing Physicians of the Czech Republic. Yesterday I had the pleasure of speaking with Dr. Uhrová here for quite a long time on this subject, and this Association of Practice Doctors is also not entirely happy with this amendment, and I will read you why. It is a pity that the proposal has not been allowed to comment on providers who will deal with long-term treatment applications in practice. In our opinion, the conditions of the health indication and the way in which the real need for full-day long-term care is assessed are not sufficiently specified. The assessment of the doctors of the hospital departments and of the attending outpatient doctors, especially the registering practitioners, will undoubtedly be very subjective, rather with an effort to accommodate even in questionable cases. In the event of a refusal, conflicts, complaints, i.e. another intolerable administrative burden on providers, social security workers and other institutions can be expected. We do not consider the proposal to be too happy and finished. We consider it problematic, for example, the possible co-operation of the second person's care allowance as well as the long-term infirmary. According to the experience of our doctors with similar situations in the Czech Republic, you can always try to apply repeatedly, there is a great risk of abuse, and estimates of economic impacts in the state budget in the final report We consider the impact assessment of regulation to be very optimistic, even with the current wording of the proposal. Should the conditions of prior hospitalization be removed, which to a large extent indicates a serious health condition, the effects will be even more significant, both on the part of outpatient providers, which means a substantial increase in administrative activity, a much higher variability in decision-making, and thus a higher number of approved applications, as well as on the state budget. Therefore, we fundamentally refuse to release the condition of hospitalization. In fact, if the proposal had not been approved or perhaps could not have been discussed by the current Chamber of Deputies, it would, in our opinion, be the best result. Unfortunately, I think this amendment addresses the malfunction of our system as regards medical assessment and care allowance. However, I am personally aware that if the family gets into this unhappy situation, that it cannot basically place its nearest person in the facility or pay for field outpatient care, that it may be a substitute for the system's malfunction. However, it must be noted that this certainly does not replace social services in any way, because we are talking about 90 days here. I would very much like to discuss on the committee my amendments, which concern both the duplication of the contribution to care and the long-term infirmary and essentially wide-open groups of providers treated by persons, because I think that the impact on the state budget is not actually estimated in the explanatory memorandum. So this is just my speech on my future amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u23	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u24	I would have responded briefly to Mrs Maxová by means of you - in no way viciously. I understand, of course, the arguments that practical doctors have. I'm not questioning the fact that they have a lot of administrative and other responsibilities today. But let me ask you, if we have the opinions of the company of practitioners here, I will ask who asked or who has the opinion of the Czech Society of Internism or the Czech Neurological Society. I want to ask if the Department of Labour and Social Affairs has spoken to the Hospital Association, a small, large, regional hospital association. We have a heavily overloaded internal department today. We don't have doctors in the regions, our sisters are leaving. Bed facilities are all the way up to the top. When we're on weekend duty, we don't have anywhere to put patients. And now we're going to put in other patients that we're going to examine whether or not they're entitled to this benefit. I'm asking - well, let's just say that hospitalization is necessary, but then I ask why seven days. Do we really need seven days to find out that the patient is in serious condition? I'm missing some kind of logical argument here. So I understand that this needs to be set up in some way, but I'm just gonna make one comment here. If this law had been passed here six months ago, we had much more time to discuss the practical implications. And there's a lot of unsolved issues, and now we're going to face a very difficult task of whether or not to approve the amendment with the unsolved problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u25	Thank you. Before I conclude the general debate, with priority rights, President Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u26	Thank you for the floor. I just want to propose that we can decide on this law at the third reading at this meeting in a variable week, so I formally propose that we shorten the deadline so that the third reading can be initiated within seven days of the receipt of the summary of the amendments tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u27	Thank you. I am registering this proposal and will put it to a vote after the end of the detailed debate. Therefore, if no one else is reporting to the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur are interested. I therefore launch a detailed debate and recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Radka Maxová was the first to enter into a detailed debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u28	Thank you. I would like to sign up for the amendments that are in the system under the number 6632 and 6633.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u29	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, her application for a detailed debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u30	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendment tabled by my colleague Mrs Pecková, who unfortunately cannot be here right now, is duly excused. In the system, this proposal is under number 6256 and I will only briefly justify the insertion of one single sentence into § 41b para. 7, that is to say that it is actually specified that the employer's consent is a condition for entitlement to this new social benefit. It is explicitly said, more explicitly than in the proposed text, as it was delivered to us. So that is the whole objective of this amendment here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u31	Thank you. Mr. Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u32	Good afternoon. As I have already announced, I am formally applying to my amendment or, respectively, to my amendment and to my colleague Pecková, who is introduced in the system under the number of the House press 6614. It is an amendment which reduces the mandatory period of hospitalization from seven days to three days. In this context, I would also like to ask the Minister whether the opinions of the Association of Hospitals, all the existing hospital associations, as well as the Czech internistic and neurological companies, as the companies of experts, which will handle these applications most often, would be requested by the meeting of the Guarantee Committee or by the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-016-022.u33	Thank you, honourable Member. This was the last one entered into a detailed debate. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. There's no such person. I therefore conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. There is no interest in the final words in second reading. We will vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to seven days. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to seven days, as proposed by President Sklenák. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 57, 92 Members are registered, for 68, against 19. [[The President was approached by one of the Members, a call off the microphone.]] Ambassador, I signed you off just before. I can sign you off whenever you want, but not during the vote. Thank you for understanding. Now, that concludes the second reading of this bill. Thank you, Madam Secretary, rapporteur. The next item is:
