ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u1	2. Law amending Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended, and other related laws /German press 564/14/ - returned by the President of the Republic The item was interrupted yesterday on Tuesday, 10 January, on a proposal from the President of the Social Democracy Club of Mr Sklenák. I ask that the Minister take the position at the rapporteur's table, who is already sitting there, and the rapporteur of the constitutionally legal, i.e. the guarantee committee, Vozka. We will continue the debate. If there is no interest in a priority speech, then in that case, please Mr Grospič and Mrs Válková will prepare herself. Still - Mr Antonín votes with card number 54. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your attention. Dear colleagues, fellow Members of the Government, of course, I will not keep you long, because much of this has been said here yesterday in the debate. I think that the draft law on conflict of interest, which we have under the House press 564, and today we should decide whether or not to overrule the veto of the President of the Republic, which he associated with this law, has a deep justification. [[9.10 hours]] We, as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, supported this law, although we do not think it is ideal, and we think that it creates such a misconception in society that if it is not adopted, it will be committed to less damaging corruption in the political spectrum of the Czech Republic. However, we consider it necessary from this point of view that there is an ever-increasing influence among people who connect their economic interests with political interests and incarnate them directly into political know-how. I know the argument brought together by the President of the Republic with this draft law, in particular around Section 4 and the subsequent paragraphs of this law, where he argues already in force by regulation and by the fact that, after all, the Constitutional Court will decide anyway. He might be right. In the end, the whole thing could end up in the Constitutional Court. However, it is necessary to say that several conditions are needed in order for this law to end up in the Constitutional Court. First of all, the condition that someone must give an incentive to the Constitutional Court to deal with this at all. From this point of view, I think that if anyone has the will to do so, but we should remain consistent today, and if we were able to hold this law against the decision of the Senate of the Czech Republic, then we should also express our support against the veto of the President of the Republic. Personally, from this point of view, although I have great reservations about this law, I will vote in favour of its support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u3	Thank you. Mrs Válková is now signed in and Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. [[Vice-President Philip approaches the microphone.]] Mr Vice-President, Mrs Válková will speak again and then you will be given the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u4	Dear colleagues, I am glad that yesterday's delayed performance can take place today, because you know my - at least I think of myself - independence, sometimes perhaps just too obvious, which is reflected, among other things, in the fact that I honor mostly unconditionally, or I honor unreservedly, and most of the time I also succeed in respecting a certain constitutional order, legal order, legislative rules and even what we call legal culture in every country. I think that as far as the amendment to the conflict of interest law is concerned, as my previous speakers suggested and very detailed yesterday, and it will probably also be today, it has not been fully respected in the sense that we might like to imagine and how we would like it to be a rule in the advanced European country, which the Czech Republic represents. To be a little more specific. My colleague, Mr Vondráček, has given a relatively detailed discussion and dealt with issues relating to the constitutionality test, which should be a measure of the level and quality of legislation for all laws, and in particular for those which influence political processes in some way more significantly. Let me add to its interpretation in this context, because I have often come to the conclusion in discussions with Members, that not everyone always differentiates what, in terms of constitutionality, should be a certain threshold for distinguishing the legal standard that passes and fails the constitutionality test, and that is the difference between the so-called material rule of law and the formal rule of law. While - if I make this very brief and I do not have a lecture here on this subject - the formal rule of law is generally understood to mean the binding nature of state power by law, that is to say the whole legal system, the material rule of law places emphasis on the value basis of positive law and on human rights. And that, I think, is very important, because each standard should pass not only a test of constitutionality in the broader sense of the word, so that it can stand, if we measure its value or quality in terms of respect for the fundamental principles of the formal rule of law, but also from the point of view of the core of the rule of law, and that is the values that are embodied in the Constitution, in the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, simply in what forms the basis of a value of a certain legal system. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] For example, allow me to compare what Mr docent says in his publication. Kysela. It is a publication of the Constitution between law and politics, an introduction to constitutional theory. But I won't be too theoretical. I specifically chose an example that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u5	I'm sorry, Madam. I ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u6	I know it may not be that interesting, but on the other hand, I think it's important that we know what we're doing. I will then draw attention to the practical consequences of not moving in it at all or only partially when voting over the President's veto. He also draws attention to the core, to the so-called clause of eternity, that is, what is unacceptable to change, what is actually made up of the grunt, the essence of the rule of law in this sense in the formal and material sense of the word. I will quote: Constitutional law removes some questions from the reach of a normal political struggle by codifying them in rigid constitutions, whose changes are subject to qualified procedures, or completely excluding them from the sphere of permissible political competition by including them into the unchangeable material core of constitutionality, the so-called clause of eternity. This is a Republican form of state in France. Unfortunately, in our country, it is a little vague what constitutes the essence of constitutionality. It is a series of essential elements of the democratic rule of law, which is Article 9 (2) of the Treaty. 2 Constitution of the Czech Republic. In Germany - I will mention Germany as an example - it is the protection of human dignity, the inalienability of human rights, the direct bindingness of human rights, the democratic and social character of the state, the sovereignty of the people exercised in elections and votes or through constitutional powers bound by law, the right to opposition and others. From a political point of view, we can therefore say that it is a kind of meta-rule of the regime, including a consensus on them, that it is a prerequisite for its existence. To translate it into an understandable language: We should always assess a standard which, in some way, significantly interferes with the sphere that is protected by human rights constitutional constraints, as well as by the optics of the material rule of law. Of course, I am not talking about the formal rule of law, the binding nature of the state, the law and the rule of law. Of course. That was discussed yesterday. [[9.20 hours]] It is from this point of view that I will also reflect in our discussion some of the findings of the Constitutional Court, which have already been cited here in the past, e.g. Judgment of the Constitutional Court of 15. 2. 2007 ÚS7706, so we can see that, in the context of the discussion of this law in the Chamber of Deputies, all the rules have not been complied with so as to go through the indiscretion of constitutionality, as I believe our constitutional order means, when the Constitutional Court in the past has already appealed to the Chamber of Deputies in order to respect the principles of clarity, clarity and clarity of the rule of law, which are among the components of the rule of law, as well as respect for democratic principles in the legislative process. Of course, you can rightly argue that, even in the past, it has often happened that we have discussed and that during the heated debate, amendments were adopted, which then went against each other, and the Senate has given us back this form and we have had to correct it, or we have not corrected it, perhaps to our detriment. This is, of course, an area which already interferes with the sphere, as I spoke about it once again yesterday with some constitutional lawyers, which, although formally not called an area of electoral law and electoral law, but in fact - and we should look at it through the optics of the material rule of law - this standard already regulates the conduct of a participant in a political process, political activity, by preventing him from acting in certain forms, and so undoubtedly, as was very well and intelligibly systematically expressed in the reasoning that we all have when the President of the Republic communicated his veto and justified it, so I think, and I am even convinced that this is a kind of warning that we should take seriously and realize that the sphere in which we are moving in the adoption of the amendment of the law on conflict of interest is already exceeding the normal legal standard that concerns everyday life, but that is the norm - therefore I cannot agree with what it has pointed out here, e.g. I heard it here, where it's a little bit different. Here we do not interfere in a political struggle that is regulated by constitutional rules. So, personally, I would like to intercede - and I know that some of our colleagues and colleagues from the club were not very happy about this - for the idea that such a law should be optimally addressed in the framework of the amendment of the Constitution, because I think that there should be a clear set of boundaries. That is why I also voted in favour of the establishment of the Permanent Commission on the Constitution and the International Treaty yesterday, because it is one of the points, one of the areas that we should be more concerned with. And you can't really blow it up like that now that we've got it at our disposal, and here it's a criticism into our ranks. Although we are on the constitutional committee, and this is my Minister Chvojka - and to be in line with my previous speakers, I also like him and I appreciate his erudition, I am glad that he has become Minister of Human Rights and Legislation, but in view of the fact that we really fall for whom we have spoken, we have, for the first time, some arguments that have been raised in the veto's reasoning, for example, the principle of proportionality in the narrower and wider sense of the word has not been mentioned there at all and it is a great shame and it is a criticism, of course, to us, who, in the debate, need not to object to the principle of proportionality in the narrower sense of the word. So on the one hand, he's right that we had time, on the other hand, he's wrong when he says we didn't discuss everything. We didn't discuss it because we didn't even think about it at the time, there were other arguments. Otherwise, don't suspect me of this, and now, regardless of my political affiliation, that I would not have the courage to vote in favour of the President's veto, if I thought it would be my commitment, and I would not be afraid of the Constitutional Court's decision-making which I gave when I entered into political life and signed certain statements which, although not formally binding, are of high value to me as well as the moral commitment, to the reconstruction of the state when I declared that I would vote for the conflict of interest law and advocate its adoption. So, personally, I am sorry that it turned out that we did not succeed in this amendment, that I have to read criticism at the highest stage of the possibility of stopping the legislative process, that, nevertheless, we may not be very successful in the vote from my point of view - and I will explain in a moment what I mean by success - and that it will probably come to pass, or I would like it if it did not, but there will probably be a revote of the President's veto. And then I think, in view of the reasons for the presidential veto, there is a directly programmed path to the Constitutional Court. Now, why did I use the term that it wouldn't be the lucky result of the vote? Because I would like to anticipate that at least some of the arguments that President Faltýnek here has read - and I originally wanted to point them out, but I think it would be unnecessary to delay, and I do not want to delay, certainly not formally just to delay the vote - so the Constitutional Court will act in such a way that it will deal with them carefully and you will not remove such a constitutional complaint from the table. And I myself will not see to the consequences of the adoption of a standard that will interfere with - allow me the bold expression - the regulation of political competition through the means of law as invasive as this amendment, and would eventually be abolished by the Constitutional Court. What claims would those affected by this amendment apply? I have no illusions that they would not apply them, even though I think it would be a test of their political integrity again. So I'm going to sum up my performance by saying, first of all, I'd like to adopt an amendment to the conflict of interest law. Secondly, I think that optimally - and let my colleagues and colleagues in the ANO movement forgive me, or some of them, but I would really be in favour of it being in the framework of the amendment of the Constitution. Thirdly, I think we should have respect for the Constitutional Court's decision-making process, which already shows that the Constitutional Court can limit the limits of political power by its decision-making. He's well-founded and politically independent. Finally, for the last time, I fear the possible consequences if the amendment takes effect as it predicts. I think that even from a technical point of view, if it touches - and I have now deliberately avoided what was being said here, it has resonated especially in the performances of my colleagues and colleagues from the ANO movement - one person, at least his, or above all his. In such a situation, it is also called the hardness of the law, if the standard were to become effective quickly, as it probably will, so it is very hard and it is almost unfair to say to me - now I point out that I do not use here in this legal sense the term disproportionate claims on an individual who could not count on it. When he entered politics, of course, there was an open competition and constitutional boundaries so that nothing prevented him from owning, using, buying, for example, mass media. [[9.30 hours]] I have also told our President several times that I would be more careful with the mass media that I experienced myself in ending my career as Minister of Justice. Because it's exactly what we serve ourselves to the public, and the doubt that the media is biased is hard to disprove. So you can see that my opinions are really dissenting sometimes. I can afford them. I enjoy it, too, and yet I am a member of the YES movement. I can't imagine Mr. Faltýnek telling me not to get off. Well, sometimes he tells me I talk too long. So I guess I'm gonna reap the criticism today, too. But I'm gonna do my own thing anyway. So, please, the House, your dear colleagues, dear colleagues, let us forget the political quarrels for a moment - although I know that I am naive in this - and let us look at this through the optics of the material formal rule of law and see that we are going into a risk that Members may not pay us back. Therefore, please remember some of the comments I wanted to make yesterday when voting. Thank you and I apologize if my speech was in some places less understandable or too long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u7	Mr Laudát will now be given the floor with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u8	Thank you. I've only been very brief. Don't be mad at me, you're talking, and now I'm talking about the YES movement that you're not politicians. What you're doing here, it's... The vast majority of Members of this House are determined to vote in favour of the law. You're the priority of your movement, and that tells everything about you, choosing to defend your boss' business at all costs. Everyone is given or should be allowed to do business in this country, but it should no longer be to do business with public money in their pockets. Please come to your senses and, at least in part, start following what you lured people to three and a half years ago during the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u9	Vice-President Filip will now appear and prepare Mr Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, a number of arguments have fallen here, and I can only limit myself to the way I see this bill. The winner of this fight, the adoption of the conflict of interest law, will be Andrej Babiš. Why? Because the law isn't a law that solves a real conflict of interest, and it's too one-sided. The second winner will be the President of the Republic, even if we overrule his veto. And I'm not the one who would vote based on what he's proposing, but on what's being proposed. We voted in favour of this bill because it did not pass our proposal, the KSČM proposal, on property returns, and there is necessarily a need for another law that limits the possibilities that are here in conflicts of interest. Whoever wishes victory over Andrej Babiš and urgently needs him, Bohuslav Sobotka, will win this vote because the House will not change the outcome of the vote, yet it will not help him at all. Those who are excited, and their voters are happy to do something against the YES movement, the godfathers of the TOP 09 and the ODS, will not win either. They just don't win. Only a law will be passed that will be done to them, because they wanted to punish someone who had given them power when other political parties failed to do so. The KSČM cannot change its vote because it has committed itself to the citizens to consistently fight against conflicts of interest, against unauthorised enrichment at the expense of society, at the expense of public funds. We have a different reason for adopting this law than the ODS, the TOP 09 and those affected by corruption, no matter what political party they are. We represent, and he does not dare recognise it even the ex-President Václav Klaus, an alternative to development in Czech society. But, of course, that's not appropriate. As far as this proposal is concerned. The most complex thing about it is the result for the political parties, the political movement that will make the Constitutional Court before the elections. If he doesn't break any of this law, we may have come out of it with a shield that isn't very clean. When they cancel even one sentence, for example, when it was due, we lost as politicians. Nevertheless, it is not possible for us to continue working on a conflict of interests between politicians and public funds. They asked me if I knew what I was voting for when I voted in favour of the Human Rights Minister Chvojka's proposal that the mayors, the representatives at the borders who were interfering with the media issued by them, were in conflict of interest. I said, I knew very well what I was voting on because the KSČM has many times, and it is not in tens, but in hundreds of cases, it has encountered the way the mayors behaved towards the representatives of the KSČM in individual municipalities. I knew it very well, and I said it was the right thing to do! It can't be about one person and it can't be about one category of politicians. And if we accept this law, we will adopt a law that we will have to change without the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I do not know if this House has the power to do so. The power of those who change such a law is likely to be decided by voters in this year's election. I would like them to decide not by the slogans, not by the amount of money they put into the electoral campaign, but by realizing that all political parties have a certain history here, and that history is 25 years old for the Czech political scene. I don't have to say 27 because it was federal history. Some remember her, some like to remember her, and others would prefer to forget what was going on at that time. This history is especially enjoyed by godfathers, whether they are from ODS, from TOP 09, or they have fled the bust of some political parties elsewhere. Because they deserved that this state was stolen, and this history will catch up with them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u11	Before Mr Chalupa comes forward, there is a factual remark from President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. Let me refer to the TOP 09 against joining the TOP 09 deadline and the godfathers. There is no single relevant reason for this, the only relevant evidence. It's just a dirty insult. I'm telling it to the public, not to Vice President Filip. I don't even have to tell that. I just want to say that some political parties in this House do not have only 25 years or 27 years of history. They have a history much longer. And during it, it is not just corruption, it is bloodshed. Maybe we should have a longer memory than the memory of twenty-seven years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u13	Another factual point, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With your help, Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I'm not ashamed of my history. Not even for its activities in the DSČ. I didn't commit any crime. I have nothing to be ashamed of, nor of working until 1989, so I did not have to leave the political party, only I was there when the KSČM was founded as a new political party taught by the very history. Some, however, do not know how to learn history, so they prefer to move to the second, third, fifth political party as well!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u15	I have no further factual points, so please Mr Chalupa, after which Mr Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now respond to what Mr Kalousek has said. Maybe the TOP didn't really have godfathers, because Mr. Kalousek was only there for a while, but before that he worked in KDU-ČSL. And Mr. Jurečka - it's been about six months since he told Mr. Kalousek here how he felt about his involvement in KDU. But I'm going to move on to what we're discussing here today. In the context of yesterday's discussion, for me personally very useful, because what I have heard here and seen, those reactions, so in the matter of OKD I have the whole ambition of our coalition partners - in quotation marks - to declare Lex Babiš at all costs will lose it more hysterical as hysterical screams in style - let me borrow the Czech proverb - the thief screams, catch the thief!, with the fact that the thief we think might steal is theoretically the only thing that could happen. I am not a lawyer, and I will not comment on the public interest in legal formulas. I will express myself as a citizen and a member of an action of disgruntled citizens, perhaps some have forgotten it, it is a shortcut, we are called the YES 2011 movement and we are not called Agrofert. As a citizen, I dare say that in the prime public interest it is for politicians to deal with public goods, with taxpayers' money as if it were their own. Not by just using them to multiply their own goods. Just to the edge, the reaction to the facts presented yesterday, as I saw here, concerning the OKD, reminded me of a line from the performance of the Radošín Naive Theatre, the line is: I signed it, even if I don't know. How public interest is actually carried out in practice, not only in theory and only at the level of some concern, we have had a discussion about OKD and missing billions. We've been through, just randomly, Mr. Rath's case, theft of subsidies, the current last case of Ústí nad Labem, the politicians of the ČSSD. The crystal clear truths of former Prime Minister of ČSSD Mr Gross, the abuse of parliamentary compensation for the construction of family nests, the residence of Mr Palas in Ludvíkov etc., etc., we could continue indefinitely. So I turn to my colleagues - our coalition partners. You're afraid of abuse of power, you're sorry with your eyes wet, I watched TV yesterday, you're sorry with your eyes wet that the law wasn't adopted before. And it's a wonderful coincidence when you've been talking about something for years, telling the voters that you're really interested in solving things, but actually nothing's been solved, the caravan goes on, cool. Until the Yes movement came. [[A single loud laugh.]] There's nothing in the government's programming statement about a conflict of interest. And suddenly there is an epiphany, and less than a year before the parliamentary elections, when opinion polls clearly indicate who is more credible and who is less and who is more, there is basically this unsolvable, factually formal but politically exploitable legislative ambition. The same wonderful coincidence, and I follow up on what Mr.Birke here showed yesterday, the coincidence occurred in connection with the reorganisation of the Police of the Czech Republic, which is also mentioned for years, you also say with wet eyes that it should have been done earlier, but it was not done. Why didn't it happen? And suddenly, before the regional rocket-speed elections, there will be a reorganization that has not actually been discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies. And what's spicy is the treatment of how the reorganisation is going to take place was listed in the coalition agreement, and because the purpose justifies the means, this contract has been completely unprecedentedly violated and basically our coalition partner faces as if nothing had happened. Interestingly, it was also during the time when the discussions on OKD, Škoda Transportation and other matters revived. But we'll talk about that when Parliament's committee of inquiry is done. Colleagues, is it not in the public interest for politicians to be credible, not to lie - see former Governor Hašek - so that the political treaties that, as a result, affect each of us's lives are respected? You mock and ironize our ambition to run the state as a company. This ambition is not about kicking people out of work, as you manipulatively distort it. It is precisely about respecting the principles of public interest. Therefore, if something is of public interest, it is primarily for competent, transparent and reasonable politicians to rule in this country. Politicians responsible for their actions, guaranteeing at least their political careers for their decisions. In a standard company, it's unthinkable for someone to do those things that you did just in the case of OKD, and no one to be punished. It just doesn't exist. That's public interest. Everything else we're talking about here is under this public interest. Owning the media. Media ownership. In times of social networking, the Internet, cyberspace, it seems ridiculous to me what we're dealing with here. I've said it here before, I'll say it again. As a politician, if I'm a little more capable and at least have some resources, I can get a blog, Facebook accounts, Linkedin, I can create any app on the Internet, and if I'm a little more capable, I can have millions of readers. I can have a lot more readers than readers who read printed media. A lot more people on YouTube watching TV. You're not gonna let me do this? I'm gonna set it up now, maybe theoretically I can become a minister, you're gonna order me to order these blogs, this media that I can basically use on the Internet to ban me? That I'd give it up? My duty as a politician, and in this case, I think it doesn't prevent anything, is to convey my political ambitions to citizens, what I do as a politician, etc. So the media actually serves to tell citizens what we're doing here. Because unfortunately, what we're doing here is, in a number of cases, telling these citizens that we're really here for two things. As far as property is concerned, our chairman, yes, has property, admitted it when entering politics, claims a conflict of interest. All this was publicly known. From this property taxes are paid in accordance with applicable laws, Mr Babiš employs a lot of people, and taxes, social and health insurance are paid for them, which could not be said at all about many state companies in the past. And the YES movement - owns some property? Well, he doesn't own it. And what does the CSSD own? He owns the target company. And what do we know about the property? I was looking at the Internet last night, I found some information there, but I don't think it's exactly up to date, so I apologize to my colleagues if I don't give everything exactly. However, it's your problem to keep the information on the Internet accurate. I think - and I will return to the Objective in a moment - there is indeed a big difference in the fact that a private person lends a transparent portion of its resources to a political party and the political party makes a transparent statement in its accounts and returns the money to the creditor, and there is a big difference between the fact that a political party owns assets, which we basically know only from the accounts, and this property, maybe this company subsidizes the activities of politicians, Members and perhaps the Prime Minister and perhaps even the ministers of this government. How does this conflict of interest law address the fact that a political party has assets that it can spend in this way in a political struggle? Is he working it out? Well, it doesn't. [[9.50 hours]] According to the annual report, the main objective of the company or joint stock company is the objective of providing promotional items for election campaigns by the party and is also the largest sponsor of the ČSSD. The original property was 970 million. The target in the last four years has paid more than half a billion crowns from its capital funds. That's because we run the state as a company, because if we run the company like this, we're gonna go bankrupt or we're gonna get bailed out. By the way, you have an execution for your property that you haven't solved. This is also a certain signal about how you are able to manage the property, and you will teach us how to do it. [[Laughs of several Members.]] Vice-President of the Cíl said: We have been warning ČSSD leadership repeatedly for several years, but we have been told that all funds will be returned after the election. That's an interesting message. In the case of loans, the accounts should be clearly explained in the annexes on what terms they were granted, which does not have the Objective there. The problem is also that loans are apparently interest-free, it is not allowed for subsidiaries to provide interest-free loans to their mother, etc. I don't think it's necessary for me to read it here because my colleagues are laughing at it. I am glad that citizens see this on screens that colleagues laugh at. Interestingly, the auditor of the Target was Babák, who himself said that he had miraculously earned money from the audit. Easy to circumvent the rules through so-called. Tunnel in. It is a systemic problem, which lies primarily in the easy possibility of circumventing the rules by giving themselves, for example, instead of a political party. in the form of overpriced or unrealised contracts, the financial means of a commercial company owned by a political party or through a commercial company to a political party shall be provided with financial or other support in other ways, e.g. providing services to a company owned by a political party on preferential terms. Furthermore, there are situations where companies do not provide their services only to their parent parties, which is meant to be in the background of the possibility of setting up these companies but to an open market. Sources obtained from clients of these companies, i.e. payments for goods or services that may be overpriced or fake, then companies will give their parent party, thus making money from clients to their intended destination. The link between companies and parties can be very significant. The parties thus de facto do business through co-owned companies. So, fellow citizens who watch it on TV, that's how politics works. Yesterday, my colleague Birk, in connection with the OKD discussion, recommended that I refer to the law enforcement authorities. I could return the same coin with the fact that the conflict of interest law is useless, because any citizen, even an MP, has the right and right to file a criminal report against any of us who commit any misdemeanor. So if you have the knowledge that President Babiš has done something that is not in accordance with the law, file a criminal complaint against him and you do not have to do this legislation. That's completely unnecessary. So if he did something in conflict of interest, we just have law enforcement authorities to do it, and we can deal with it through criminal proceedings. It's just that the legislation is formal. As it is written and presented, it is purely formal and it is just politics. In fact, we don't need any law like Lex Babiš. Does the colleague really believe that this matter is actually capable of being investigated by the authorities scattered by the police's reorganisation and now blinded back to the fact that people, persons who have triggered and approved the reorganisation will have an interest in the examination? So Vice-President of the ČSSD, as it happens, Minister of the Interior and Prime Minister, Chairman of the Security Council of the State, Prime Minister? If the reaction is such that it is obvious that this will be investigated, why didn't it already happen a year ago, three years ago, five years ago? Mr Kalousek has told us here that in other countries there is no need for conflicts of interest, or the public is so advanced that it is able to recognize this conflict of interest, this danger and not allow the election of a person in this problem to Parliament, virtually. To the government. [[Law]] In other words, we are repeatedly told here that the Czech public is not achieving these qualities, and therefore there is a need for blue legislators who will correct this lack of intellect of Czech citizens. He forgot to add that it is so contrary to his constantly accentated struggle for democracy. The YES movement and its President Andrej Babiš were elected in a certain number of votes to this Parliament in a democratic way and received a mandate to govern. And we, Members elected to be YES 2011, will certainly not embezzle our oaths and continue to seek to correct public affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u17	I will ask Mr Blažek, who has a point of fact, and after that Mr Birke will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u18	Hello. I'm just following up on my colleague Chalupa, through you. I, my colleague, have only been in this House for a year longer than you have, and I was here as a minister, and even then I suffered when I was in It took place in the House when the parties were chasing each other over who stole more or did something wrong, especially in the coalition. Yesterday I listened to Mr. Faltýnek's speech, your speech today, so I just want to say that we don't have a debate in this way that when citizens watch it, they actually find out: I pour dirt - I don't do it - on ANO, ano on a soccer basis. dem., soc. Let's go. the communists, etc., and now what is this guy supposed to think? So this is where all these sides either stole something or they're doing something wrong. The direction of this debate is really not good for the reputation of this House, but for politicians at all. As for the law, I've listened to you, I, you'll be surprised, I agree with many of the things you said. I too am lukewarm for what has been accepted and is to be accepted, but a little for other reasons. Because if the aim was to make small changes, but important ones, which were proposed by either colleague Plíšek or colleague Chvojka, if the aim was to in some way harm Andrej Babiš - I stress, if that was the goal - then I think the popular proverb "what will not kill you will make you stronger" applies. So I think that by approving this law, the opposite will be achieved, and that is the reason for my purely political lukewarmness towards these measures. And as it turns out, if you think it doesn't seem to me yet that it would harm Mr. Babiš politically, perhaps economically, but he knows that, I don't know, but I don't think that the purpose, if seen like this, will be achieved by this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u19	Now, with Mr Birke's point of fact, then Mrs Zelienková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to say, this is really worth getting off. Now, what I'm gonna say is, everybody think of it as exaggeration, it's gonna be a lot of fun, maybe not for somebody, but take it it's not personal at all, what I'm gonna say here. I'm gonna steal one of Dr. Štrosmajer's catchphrases, that if she's being stupid, some of my colleagues are flying like eagles, not doves. The second point I want to make. You know, it's a fashionable day to file charges against each other. I don't like it. [[Member Chalupa - comments from the hall.]] My colleague, don't yell at me. Yesterday you yelled at me, in that army you should have learned at least to behave when you were in rank, through Mr President. First of all. Two. Punishment on each other today - it's like a madhouse. I'm the mayor of the city where it's a national sport. But I'm gonna ask you one thing. Never go to Náchod. We love people like you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u21	Mrs Zelienková, then Mr Hájek, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would perhaps like to remind my ANO colleagues of what Mr Babiš said after the election, when all our colleagues came to the Chamber of Deputies, and that he called on us to limit our business. He himself came up with the idea that he would transfer his company to some Mr. Průša. So I don't know him personally, maybe my colleagues at Agrofert know who he was talking about. But unfortunately, it didn't. Why are we dealing with the law you call Lex Babiš? Because actually, Mr. Babiš can do what he does from his position as Minister of Finance, using public funds for his company. He just can! And we all know historically that Mr. Babiš is the world champion of what he can do and what the law allows him to do. We know what he did in the Capi Nest case. We know how he has been able to exploit or exploit the gap in the law regarding dividends. So he just can. And if a person who holds the position of Finance Minister doesn't have moral credit to decide for himself what is moral and what is not, what can be done and what cannot be done out of his position, then unfortunately, here we are dealing with Lex Babiš. So just before my former colleagues from the ANO movement come forward, I would like to remind them of Mr. Babiš's words when he himself said and declared that he would give up his business and that he would transfer his business to a Mr. Průša. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u23	Thank you. Mr. Hájek, please. Then Mr Pilný, still factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u24	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to briefly respond to the words of my colleague Blažek, who called on us not to tarnish one side of the other, that Karel did not steal. I was here yesterday maybe 20, 25 minutes talking about privatizing OKD. Stealing OKD. Tunning OKD. Who tweaked the OKD? It started when the Civil Forum was here. Then there was ODA, the Civil Democratic Alliance. Then the biggest tunnel was at the time of the signing - now help me find the expression - the opposition agreement between ODS and ČSSD in 1997. Then the right-wing government of the ODS, TOP 09, which the arbitration court stated was not making any decisions. So this is where the company was stolen for tens, hundreds of billions. And this is where we say, "Are we not blaming the parties?" Unfortunately, unfortunately, I think the only ones here who don't have butter on their heads are the communists and the ANO movement who haven't been there. So from this point of view, please, I'm sorry, but we really have to criticize those from our point of view, us citizens. Because the YES movement is indeed an action of disgruntled citizens. I went into politics as a disgruntled citizen, and I have the right to point out not only the injustices that have been going on here, but also to ask that we really, if the iniquities were here, and I was talking about the apartments again yesterday, for example, so that we could push the government to go back to where it should have been, if the possibilities are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u25	Mr Pilný, a point of fact. After him, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Unfortunately, I do not even have the opportunity, through the President, to address my former colleague Kristýna Zelienková, who performed here, and to remind her of the ethical nature of leaving the organization that got her to the House without which she would never have got there, in the middle of her term. Not only to leave, but to engage in factual criticisms that are not based on anything. The cases she named here, the stork's nest or the dividend of Agrofert were created before Andrej Babiš entered politics. That's one. Secondly, if anyone feels damaged in their rights to the Constitution, because this case and this special law will certainly be decided by the Constitutional Court, he has the right to defend himself within the framework of the law. The way Andrej Babiš does it is his way. He feels threatened by his rights. I share that feeling with him, even though I don't have a conflict of interest. So he has a natural right to defend himself legally, and indisputably he will, and it is pointless to invent and criticize for something that just didn't happen. As far as conflicts of interest are concerned, of course, it is known, and it is known above all to the voters who elected Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement to the House, how it looks with Andrej Babiš. This law does nothing but what is generally known to everyone, what conflict of interests Andrej Babiš is in, and he declares it. It turns into something far, far less transparent. This law should force him to do so, and I hope it doesn't make the Constitutional Court decide by reason. This pointless war, which has changed the conflict of interest law to lex anti-Babish, is simply a matter of most of the House, which will probably overrule us in the next few minutes. It's useless, counterproductive, it's not gonna help anyone, and it's gonna be even worse than it was. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u27	I beg President Kalousek, then Marek Černoch, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u28	I'm sorry, I didn't want to enter into this discussion because I feel like I'm blaming what, when, where, who doesn't have the slightest effect on this law, isn't even relevant. Mr Hájek said that the only people in this House who do not have butter on their heads are the communists, the ANO movement. I envy his confidence, but please. However, it is not true, Mr Pilný, through Mr President, that the Chapi Nest case was before Andrej Babiš's entry into politics. It goes on all the time. She's even being investigated by OLAF. And in the case of Chapi, the nest of politicians Andrej Babiš, the first Deputy Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, has clearly lied to the entire public and to the Chamber of Deputies. That just happened, and it's documented from open sources. So, please, it's not true that it was. Unfortunately, it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u29	Mr. Černoch, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. I want to respond to the words of Mr Hájek, by your means, Mr President. You said the only ones who don't have butter on their heads are communists and ANO. And we don't have butter on our heads either. I just want to remind you that we initiated OKD together with the KSČM. And we want to fight corruption, we want to fight thieves, and we want the law to apply to everyone. So we don't have butter on our heads either, Mr. Colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u31	I have no further factual point, and please Mr Schwarz, who is duly registered. And after that, Mr. Komárek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm sorry Chvojka's not here because yesterday I promised him I'd tell him what bothers me. I'll take it real quick. [[Minister Chvojka signals that he is sitting in his bench. Chairman: Colleague Chvojka is on the left.]] I see him now, Minister. So, Minister, it really bothers me, not that, as you thought, I wanted to stall here, so that's why fast. It bothers me that when a person goes into politics and into any level, I mean the level of municipal, regional and here, and he really opens up, i.e. shows everything he has, or that he's a doctor, a teacher, a police officer, a police officer, so people have the opportunity to vote for that person. That's what happened, that's how the movement got here, thanks to doctors, teachers, people who just went to the candidate, and everyone knew who voted for them, what they had, what they didn't have. And now I'm going to go to what bothers me. It bothers me that you too, Minister, may be Mr. Minister for a while, but you may be a minister thanks to the YES movement. Thanks to this, I don't see another minister here anymore, the Home Secretary left, you didn't mind that Mr. Babiš, as an entrepreneur, signed up for politics with a disgruntled citizen movement, got here, and we assembled the coalition. Everyone knew. Seems to me like when I get married, and two weeks after my wedding, I start telling my wife that she has green eyes when she had them before. That's what bothers me. And it bothers me if I have to raise the law, regardless of whether it's up to Mr. Babiš, it bothers me, too, Minister. Because next time in the village, someone might want to vote for me, and if I really become mayor or vice-grower, I'm gonna put together a coalition, and then somebody's gonna say, "Okay, but you were an ex-cop." We don't want the mayors to be cops. Then something will be accepted and I won't be. That's wrong. [[10.10 hours]] I think that democracy, as I understand it, maybe wrong, I'm not saying that it's okay, but democracy is just about telling people what I am, what I've done and what I want to prove. And people can choose whether to send me here or not. So you could choose another coalition partner who didn't own Agrofert, who wasn't a cop like me. I don't have anything to do with Agrofert. Mr. Babiš is not my chairman. But I'm saying it for the future. I think that there is a need for completely different laws in this country, please, or a smaller number of laws than to adopt. I want to say to Vice-President Filip, through Mr President, that his speech was closest to me, he was not afraid to be called, so I see it a lot, as I think it is. I just want to point out that what really bothers me is that when the coalition came together, I raised my hand for the coalition program, always honored the coalition vote, and it bothers me that right now before the election, it just bothers you. That's wrong. This is not a good example for the future. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u33	First, Mr Gabal, who came forward with a factual remark, and then with priority rights, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u34	Hello. Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I don't think it's surprising what I'm going to say here as a coalition MP. We're talking after three years of this House to regulate the risk of conflict of interests of members of the government. This defines what we are talking about, specifically in the case of the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. We are talking at a time when this Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister are tightening screws for all companies, businesses and businessmen to reduce the risk and chance of diverting funds, withholding data, tax optimization, tax evasion and financial irregularities. If we are tightening the terms of the market and of all companies as a coalition, in my view it is a political obligation to clean up in front of our own threshold first and it is important that this Deputy Prime Minister reduces the risks of suspicion of financial manipulation and conflicts of interest in his own case. As a coalition MP, I would like to call on my colleagues from YES to stop whining and to vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u35	Now the Minister has the floor. Mr Komárek duly applied for after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Now, I'm gonna read something, and I'm sorry I didn't know that before, because I think there's a lot of things that would clear up and work things out. Yesterday, a good member of the ANO movement from the Pardubice Region, yes, there are nice people among the members of the ANO movement, sent by the so-called moral code of representation of the political movement YES 2011. I am sorry that I did not know this earlier, that there is this moral code, but it is said that everyone who enters the YES movement must sign it, which means that everyone who is in the YES movement must sign it. There is Article 4 which is very interesting, and I am surprised that the discussion from colleagues from YES sometimes says that they may not have read it when they signed the application for the movement, to the action of disgruntled citizens, as Mr Chalupa said. Article 4 states that the elected representative is not in any conflict of interest; if a conflict of interest occurs with him, he will resolve it as quickly as possible, regardless of the personal interests of the elected representative. I think it's obvious. We are dealing with a matter that is logical here, and a matter that is also supported by the moral code of members of the ANO movement. So maybe we should have said it at the beginning, maybe some members of the ANO movement forgot that they signed this moral code, but that's true. I am pleased to be able to remind you of this, and I think that the bill and amendments are entirely in line with the moral code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u37	Mr Blažek, for real.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u38	Thank you for the floor. When I listen to the debate, I remember the film Heritage or the Fucking Shitmouth, so I can say some dirty word here legally, because that's the real name of the movie. And there's this scene where the guest throws out the waiter and he says, "New times, the guest throws out the waiter." And here's the new era. The opposition sits and doesn't overtake whether the bigger devil is Babiš or whether the bigger devil is Mládek and so on. So there's actually a new time when a coalition that holds on to each other's voices is talking about who's the bigger villain and criminal, and I don't know what. [[Weak applause from the right.]] I have to say it's fun to watch, but at the same time it's actually sad, and to be such an ordinary regular audience of Czech TV now, so I wonder where there's actually some coalition, who's there with who and what it must look like about those governments. When you talk about yourself like that here and in public, what it looks like when the door closes. And I'm just an illusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u39	Mr. Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u40	I'll add something to our coalition partners' confrontation. I promised the Minister I wouldn't say anything anymore, but when he said I had to, too. We don't care if you want to fix it, we don't care if you want to make it wrong. That's all. As far as conflicts of interest are concerned, we all just feel it somewhere else. The current legislation prohibits the exercise of activities, being in incompatible functions. Our President has fulfilled all of this and has resigned from the statutory bodies. And we're just saying that the conflict of interest must be existing, not potential, in the air, virtual. Everyone must have the right to prove that there is no conflict of interest. It always slides down to our chairman, but I said here yesterday what about the Minister of Human Rights and Legislation, how he can influence the competition, like in Kroměříž. Hardly, he doesn't have any legal tools. Yet this standard falls upon him. Let's sit down and do it properly. The thing is, we didn't listen to each other last night. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u41	Mr Fiedler's point of order is now here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A real comment responding to the performance of the previous speaker at Chalupa. I'm reacting a little distance because in the meantime, I've been wandering the Internet looking for some things. And before that, I will say that it is a pity that such a detailed and comprehensive debate, which concerns actually the political struggle and the electoral campaign, did not take place when we were discussing the political party law, where I had several amendments, which unfortunately the Chamber of Deputies rejected all, I also responded to my unfortunate experience with some of the strange things that were going on in Dawn, and this was also rejected. But a colleague of Chalupa mentioned the target joint stock company here. Akciová společnost Objective has publishing activities. That belongs to social democracy, we know that. Why should this apply only to ministers, and why should the political party be allowed to do this publishing work? As it is there with some loans that he has a large claim on social democracy, he has four and a half employees according to the annual report, a salary of 2 million. For these four employees, I've quickly Googled it. But I know when I read the annual reports that this business organization has a big claim to social democracy, it has to do with the People's House. But the publishing business is there. And that's what I'm saying. Here I'm leaning a little bit towards colleagues who criticize that the law is imperfect. We're gonna forbid the minister, which is okay that he shouldn't - in my opinion, he shouldn't own the media. And the political party can own them? Isn't that strange?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u43	Mr. Plíšek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u44	Mr President, dear fellow Members, I originally thought I would not perform, but that it would not really be just a debate of coalition Members. I am somewhat shocked when this debate is taking place. We are to vote on this law for the third time today, we are to comment on the veto of the President of the Republic, and we are now witnessing how members of the ANO movement who did not perform either at second reading or at third reading, even if they have returned the Senate law, delay this discussion and want to protect the business and business of their President. [[10.20 hours]] And in response to Mr Vondráček through Mr President: How many amendments have the ANO Members tabled in the committees on this bill and on this issue that we are talking about? Mr. Colleague, none. You blew it. You were merely defending your President's business in committee meetings, and you did not really submit any of your own proposals. What you're saying here, you're only saying now, the moment we actually have to vote on the president's veto. I don't get it. You guys just didn't get involved in the discussion. Let me just remind you that this law has been under discussion all last year. And you didn't really work as you had in your slogans, and now you're just stalling this discussion. I would therefore really like to call for us to take part in the vote and the other important points that are on the monitor, and I think that they are also important for the citizens of this country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u45	Two further factual points - Mr Fichtner, after which Mr Plzák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u46	Good morning. I would take the liberty of responding here to my colleague Plíšek, who spoke here about perhaps delaying other Members. That really amused me. Because if you had accepted our original proposal, which was once, actually at the beginning of the parliamentary term, to limit the duration of the debate, you wouldn't have to deal with this at all, we wouldn't have held you up and then you wouldn't have held us up. That's about as much to discuss. As for the conflict of interest itself, the bill proposal, the vote to come, I would like to draw attention to one thing. Either the law or the bill, it's either in accordance with the Constitution or it's not. We'll see about that. It's probably going to be the Constitutional Court, we'll see. The fact is that there is simply retroactivity, in that law, and the question is how the Constitutional Court will assess this retroactivity, because in the event that the Constitutional Court judges or decides that the law is unconstitutional, then it is also necessary to look at the consequences that it may bring. Because, of course, if it is unconstitutional, then whoever is damaged by this law, which would be Mr. Andrej Babiš, then, of course, there would also be some damage. And that's what needs to be realized. So if it turns out to be unconstitutional and it's a shame, then apparently someone will have to pay for the damage, too, and that someone will probably be worth it. Which maybe it wouldn't be a problem if it was a business where, let's say, a year's turnover is a million crowns, so the state could probably handle that. But according to Andrej Babiš, his companies have a turnover of approximately CZK 200 billion, now it doesn't matter if it's plus minus 50 or 100 billion. So this is really a very high amount, and now the question is that if the state had to compensate for the damage that would potentially have caused it, then if it hadn't significantly damaged the state. So please take this into consideration in the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u47	Mr. Pilsner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I, too, through you, Mr. colleague Plíšek. I consider it important because he approached us all as members of the YES to explain to him why I did not contribute to the law. Because I liked the law the way it came from the government, which means the way it came to the House, so I would probably vote for it. What made him that pasculi were your amendments. And unfortunately, the second thing I could not say about it in any way was that I was a member of the Committee on Petitions and the Committee on Foreign Affairs - I know that I can participate in other committees - but our committees were not commanded. So for my person, I'm sorry, the explanation, I hope, is how you accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u49	Still Mr Stupčuk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u50	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to Mr Fichtner's speech. So I would like to ask you, in what legal capacity, therefore, who would seek compensation for the damage. Because if we pass the law, he'll become a valid part of the rule of law, and I don't know a legal title that anyone could claim if we acted in accordance with the law. Because the law applicable to compensation for damage applies to compensation for damage caused by incorrect official procedure and unlawful decision. But that doesn't apply to the procedure in which I proceed as a legislator and pass the law. And if we're referring to the problem that he might be found unconstitutional, then the Constitutional Court will abolish it with ex nunc effects, and it will have effects for futuro. But the relationships they establish before it's cancelled will be valid, and I say again, they won't make a claim for damages. So please, let us not be alarmed here by the fact that any counterconstitution or law enforcement procedure found unconstitutional would mean some ex lege claim for damages where the state would have to pay some compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u51	There. If there are no other factual points - they are. Mr. Fiedler, then. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u52	Four lawyers, five legal opinions - a known thing. I was talking about this here yesterday, about what my colleague Stupčuk was reacting to, and I was trying to get their opinion on this matter from my fellow lawyers. And that's what I said - four lawyers, five opinions. And what my colleague Stupčuk has just said here is that basically this step is going to lead to the fact that when the Constitutional Court returns it, you have achieved yours, so congratulations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u53	I do not see any further factual points, in this case Mr Komárek has the floor and Mr Seďa will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. This is a house of hypocrisy. Unbelievable hypocrisy that I won't get used to, even if I'm elected for the fourth or fifth time, like some colleagues. This debate also proves this. So let us return to the truth or to the way it is - the truth is too noble a word. We are not discussing the conflict of interest law, as proposed by the government. That's a pretty good one. He simply says that Members and public officials are to declare property before they come into office, and then when they leave that office. That's a very useful tool. We are debating what the amendments of Mr Plíšek and Mr Chvojka made of this, and Mr Chvojka has earned the spurs of the Minister without a job to quote my colleague Stanjura. These amendments are a revolution in understanding politics. I'm gonna make a quick jump, I've had a long, philosophical lecture prepared, but I'm gonna cut it short. I guess you all know that at first we poor people had it hard with politics. Because a poor man couldn't do it because he had to work 12-14 hours, press oil, and so on to get involved in those agora games. It was Perikles who introduced those small MPs or civil servants' salaries so that even poor people could do politics. I think it's wise that even among poor people, people are politically talented. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] But we are making a revolution in the sense that we want to ban rich people from doing politics. Because, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, those amendments do not talk about the fact that someone should not be doing business, that is already given in our laws. These amendments simply prohibit a person who has a certain political function from owning property. It's just expropriation laws: if you want to do something, you can't have property. I think this is awful, but it's just the way it is. It's a law that you can't have property if you want to make a political career. [[10.30 hours]] When you are a doctor, you also have a comparative advantage when you want to make a political career. Unlike the Member, the doctor's profession is very popular, so doctors on candidates can easily outrun their fellow factory workers, journalists, or even teachers who are also popular. Are we going to forbid anyone from doing the doctor's job before they run for parliament? Is that a comparative advantage? I'm sure it is. It's, I'd say, more comparative advantage than owning big assets. Anyone would consider such a ban to be absurd nonsense. Yes, it would be absurd nonsense. It's also absurd stupidity in terms of common sense to forbid someone to own property. It is reasonable to prohibit him from doing business, it is reasonable to prohibit him from obtaining unjustified benefits from having a political function. Of course, all of this is forbidden. So this law, I would say, not the law itself, but the two stickers, the two special-purpose amendments, made it absurdly stupid, in normal words. It's not true that we didn't discuss it. We've been pointing that out all along. I am not a lawyer, or I am intuitively convinced that it is contrary to common sense, with logic, with the Constitution and with the Charter of Rights and Freedoms, because they are to some extent based on common sense. And why are we discussing this further? Because he supported this intuition by the legal analysis sent to us by the President, completely pregnant with the use of a masterful argument. So when I read Mr. President's argument, I was in my intuitive opinion that these two stickers by Mr. Chvojka and Mr. Plíšek are absurd crap, yet confirmed. Please - I know nothing will happen, but sometimes it's good to listen to what the President says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u55	I thank Mr Komárek. Good morning. Mr Kalousek, Mr Benešík, followed by Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u56	Thank you for the floor. Sorry, just a brief remark on the previous speaker. He said that if the law was passed, he said: who wants to make a political career, he must have no property. But that's not true. No such provision says such a thing. It's just that the minister shouldn't apply for state contracts or he shouldn't draw subsidies. The property may have as much as it wants, but simply the idea that the government minister, who has a decisive influence on determining the conditions for drawing subsidies, draws on the subsidies himself and also controls them that the government minister is successfully applying and obtaining public contracts, is an idea that was completely unthinkable a few years ago. I remember the time of the media public debate from when Mr Komárek was the head of the Mladá fronta, and at that time, if any minister had determined the rules for drawing subsidies, and he also successfully drew on the subsidies and controlled himself for the taxpayer, the mentioned Mladá fronta, including the above-mentioned chief commentator, would have torn him to pieces. Just to pieces. And she wouldn't be alone in it. Of course, all the media in the country would do that. And that's why such a law wasn't necessary, because no one would dare, this behavior. Time has gone by the curtain, today we have different times, we have new order, today it's just completely normal and the Young Front is still defending it, so the law as a minimum morale must be here. Of course, who wants to bypass the law, will also bypass it. But it's rude to go around the law. A decent politician doesn't do that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u57	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Benešík, and after that, I have factual remarks. Mr Fiedler, Mr Plzák, Mr Komárek, Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u58	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, I think my previous speaker has largely said what I wanted to say. I just found out that this meeting is being transmitted by the Czech Television, so I understand that there will probably be a lot of speakers here who want to say their own. After all, individual parties will have their primaries and need to be impressed by party leadership. But I'm gonna be honest here. I think what's going on here is, first of all, we're doing a big PR to Andrej Babiš. Andrej Babiš is a rich man. Andrej Babiš is the one who appeared in 2011. He's never been here before, and he's come to the Czech Republic to clean this place up, because corrupt politicians have run this country completely wrong. Andrej Babiš wasn't here before 1989. Andrej Babiš was one of the communist economic nobility. That's just the truth. He had huge know-how, possibilities, because he belonged there unlike many other people. He used this know-how. I'm not saying he corrupted. I'm saying he's been used by a whole bunch of other people, used him, and today what are we discussing? We are discussing that Andrej Babiš is completely legitimately elected to the Chamber of Deputies, became Vice-President of the Government, but there has been a conflict of interest. We've never had a situation like this here. And Andrej Babiš really, as has been said here several times, is the one who co-decisions on transfers of state finances for his business. No one's driving Andrej Babiš out of business, no one's kicking him out of politics. What we're trying to do here, even if it's very complicated, complicated, and some say that maybe even contrary to the Constitution, is that one person isn't able to pass on state subsidies. That's all it is. Andrej Babiš may be in politics, Andrej Babiš may own the property he owns, although I have a problem with how he acquired it, but he must decide whether he will or will not be in conflict of interest. [[Time warning]] That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u59	Thank you. With a false factual remark, Mr Fiedler. I am yet to announce that Mr Kučera has a replacement card number 61 and from 12.30 to the end of the negotiations due to an urgent working session, Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u60	It's January 2017, right? We've got ten months till the election. Dear coalition colleagues, three years and a quarter didn't bother you, and now we're gonna work so hard? But that's just to the edge. It's like a man... Three and a quarter years, I said it here yesterday, sometimes you've declared laws that I didn't like, to me, which I'm part of the opposition, and today I see a huge split in the coalition. You're shooting at each other today. There's gonna be an election. But why did I volunteer? In addition to what was said about lawyers and what I was talking about yesterday and today, and about the contradiction, this was said by my colleague Benešík a moment ago, a possible contradiction with the Constitution. Isn't our law by chance superior to European law? And what will be the case under European law? I'm not a lawyer. I say I go to your lawyers, but I hear five opinions from four lawyers, but I know that our law is superior to European law. And I fear that Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš will expect that European law will apply. And I'm not quite sure what it's gonna be like to do with any damages if something like this happens. Let me give you an example. According to our laws, foreigners were not allowed to buy real estate and own land, and then it was different after all, because it turned out that European law allowed it. I'm not a lawyer, but I have a feeling things aren't that clear here. I have a little doubt that our legal standards are not subject to the standards of the European Council and the Council of Europe Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u61	I thank Mr Fiedler and now Mr Plzák, Mr Kučera, Mr Kalousek, Mr Černoch, Mr Blažek and Mr Benešík. Please, Mr. Ambassador. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u62	Thank you. A beautiful series follows. I volunteered because I don't need to do any PR, but my colleague Kalousek here didn't tell the whole truth. He said the Minister can have as much property as he wants. But what are media? What is MAFRA? That's not property? It's property! And nota bene one of the amendments, which was originally voted here and failed thanks to colleagues from ODS, was that he could not have property, and you were in favour. [[10.40 hours]] And then a colleague of Benešík. Mr President, you can tell me how the Minister in the government, where you are sitting, would be able to control how he would pass the subsidy. I'd be interested in the mechanism. How it's done in the government, how it's played so he can do it. Tell me. Tell me. I care as a citizen, as a man, as an MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u63	Thank you. Mr Kučera, his point of order. After that, Mr Kalousek, Mr Černoch, Mr Blažek, Mr Benešík, Mrs Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u64	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I may even partially answer my foreman how to do it. Minister Babiš, as we all know, is the Minister of Finance and his portfolio includes, for example, the state enterprise ČEPRO, which buys biodiesel. From public sources, I can quote that two of Babiš's companies are supplying to Čepro, namely Preol and Primagra. I find it quite interesting. This means that the Minister of Finance Babiš buys 87 percent of all turnover in the state enterprise Čepro himself in Agrofert. According to public sources, turnover has increased twice since 2013. This means that since Minister Babiš joined as Minister of Finance, the purchase of the company CECPRO has increased twice with its companies in the group Agrofert. And how can this be abused further? I'm gonna quote from public sources again. There was a third contractor. And the third contractor after the tax Cobra raid ended. Who's running the tax Cobra, please? Once again Ministry of Finance - Andrej Babiš. Is that good enough for you, colleague?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u65	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, with a factual point, followed by Mr Černoch, Mr Blažek, Mr Benešík, Mrs Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u66	Thank you for the floor. I would like, with all due respect, to defend myself against Mr Benešík's concepts, who said that Minister Babiš was one of the communist nobility. As Chairman of the TOP 09 with regard to the fates of the members of the TOP 09 Schwarzenberg, Czernin and Lobkowicz, I object to this notion. Yes, the MP and Minister Babiš belonged to Communist prominents. From World War II to this day, they have prospered and prospered. Unfortunately, we can't say that with the nobility. There were life's fates quite different. I will give Mr Kučer a second example of how this is done. As Minister of Finance, Minister Babiš has a major influence on the budget chapter of Minister Jurečka. He will tell Minister Jurečka: You will, Minister, have three times more money for food professionals, but only provided that only the large ones receive subsidies. Not the little ones. But the big ones that have at least 250 employees. Then you can count on me to give you a lot of money. Minister Jurečka wants to be a successful minister, so he will conclude such an agreement with the Minister of Finance. He'll actually get three times as much money for the grocery store, and Minister Jurečka will write that it's only for the big ones. So the dominant part of these subsidies gets Agrofert. That's how it's done. And unfortunately, that's how it goes. And that, unfortunately, is how the media influenced and owned by the Treasury Secretary tolerates and does not launder. So at least the law should say that's not how it's gonna be done, even though I agree that whoever's been accustomed to going around the law as a communist prominent all his life will go around them. But the law isn't supposed to go around.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u67	Thank you. Another point in fact, Mr Černoch, followed by Mr Blažek, Mr Benešík, Mrs Válková, President Faltýnek, Mr Birke, Mrs Lorencová. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u68	I would like to ask and respond to the words of my colleague Benešík. What, then, is the truth? All this time, this law presented itself as a law to straighten out a certain environment. And Mr. Benešík, by your means, said that this is a law that is, and repeated it several times, directed against one person. And I don't think laws are meant to be made against one person. Whether it's Lojza or Pepa, whoever it is. Laws are to be made to straighten out a certain environment. What, then, is the truth? So is it a law that is directed against one person, or is it a law that balances a particular environment? Because during the time it was discussed, it was communicated in the media that it is a law for ministers to help them, because then they do not have to face constant innuendoes about being in conflict of interest, and they do not have to defend themselves and defend themselves constantly. But at this point, is it a law against one person? I agree that whether it concerns one person or whether it concerns the media. We were discussing OKD here yesterday. A very serious matter. How many media did this show up in? One, two... Nowhere else. For me personally, it's a really big case, and I think the media should write about it. They don't. All of a sudden, it's live. What is the truth, then, Mr. Benešík? Is it a law against one person, or is it a law that balances a particular environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u69	Thank you. Mr Benešík, Mr Benešík, point of fact. After that, Mrs Válková, Mr Faltýnek and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u70	Mr Vice-President, I made this point before my esteemed colleague, Marek Černoch, raised this question. But I will use the time I have to answer. I am no opponent of this law. I didn't sign for it. I didn't exactly promote him. But the way I see it personally is that this law does not seem to produce, let's say, the effect that the petitioners expect. I hope it brings some effect. And that's how I feel. I really won't be able to defend the law here. I don't think he's bad. But I'm a little skeptical of what its impact will be. Still, I'm saying it's not directed against one person, even if it's presented like that. Rather, I think that Prime Minister Babiš was some sort of catalyst that showed us that brought us into a new situation where we can see in his example that he is in conflict of interest. And that a member of the government, such a prominent member of the government, may be in conflict of interest. And after all, in the next... if you look at how many different people connected to the state business today, who call themselves multimillionaires, wants to run and form parties, the law can be useful even in the future. So I think it's a general law. I'm sure of it. And Andrej Babiš served as an example. As someone who pointed out that this situation might occur. And after all, I think it's happening. But why I applied for a factual remark was a collision, or virtually. the superiority of European law to national law. Superiority is only in certain areas where the Czech Republic, together with other countries, agreed that the superiority will be there. My layman opinion is without any analysis, I apologize if the information is not correct, that no superiority of European law is likely to work in this case. But that's my layman opinion. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u71	Thank you. Mrs Válková - her factual point. The Member is not present, so the factual remark falls to her. Mr. Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr Birke, Mrs Lorencová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u72	Thank you. It's too bad Kalousek isn't here, because if you're all asking how it's specifically done in the government, I'll tell you. The rest is merely conjecture. Only the assumption that they might be. Could be. Could be. But the real way to do this is to sit in government as Minister of Finance and forgive my fellow businessman the Foreign Minister with a fine for poorly filled subsidies. That's how you do it in government. And if... I already told you yesterday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u73	Thank you. Mr Birke and his point of order. After that, Mrs Lorencová, Mr Fiedler, Mr Štětina. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u74	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to ask you, if I understand correctly, there are a number of local politicians, current mayors and mayors. As far as I understand it, the conflict of interest, and I think I've said it somewhere, but I still want to say it in plenary. Imagine a model situation, if I'm the mayor of the city, I have a construction company, I'm elected mayor, and every minute I record a contract for myself from the sidewalks or from the roads. That's a conflict of interest. I can't imagine anything like that at all -- like that in those cities -- co-workers on me right. That's where the criminal charges fly after that, isn't it? That's right. [[10.50 hours]] Of course, I don't want to go anywhere. But in order to be pragmatically able to imagine what the conflict of interest is. And this is the situation where I want to be the mayor of the city, at the same time I'm an MP, but I want to have the same conditions as the vice-president of the government. Why am I supposed to be different from the Prime Minister, who's in conflict every minute because he has 250 companies, and every minute, he's just sending himself verifiable funds for his companies. That's all. I think there's something about that. Can you imagine that out of the six thousand mayors or mayors or deputy mayors, someone could afford something like that in this country? In a situation where you say hello to someone badly today, and they put a criminal on you? That's unthinkable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u75	Thank you. Mrs Lorencová and her factual point. After that, Mr Fiedler, Mr Štětina, Mr Kučera, Mrs Válková, Mr Hájek. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u76	Mr President, colleagues, I am very often here, virtually always, touching in my speeches what happened many years ago. It's sad, but it's been years. But she always catches up with us in the past. She's a pretty beast. He always catches up with us. I remember the time when the Privatization Act was being prepared, about participation in privatized media. I happened to be a member of the Commission, which prepared the law in 1992, and I remember because I was there as a syndicate of journalists and there were other colleagues with me, as we tried to limit the percentage of owned assets in the media, because we were convinced that it was not really good when privatized property of this kind was owned by someone at 100 percent. At the end of 1992, we were in the phase when we proposed 30%. The law was practically ready, he could have gone to a meeting in a competent place. The Federation's disintegration came into this. And look, next to this law, which he was already prepared to vote to go to the right places to negotiate, a completely different law suddenly appeared, a finished law, prepared, actually had to be prepared in parallel with what we discussed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u77	Time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u78	- and this law actually made it possible for what appears on the table today after 25 years. This law, adopted at the time -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u79	Time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u80	I am sorry, Mr President. This law was actually adopted in 1992. [[noise and laughter are growing in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u81	An apology isn't enough. I'm sorry, but your time is up, Madame. I'm sorry. Another duly registered point of fact is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u82	In response to what was said here. We're back to biofuels. As part of the opposition, together with the opposition, I voted against this. It's been criticized today. I think he was a colleague of KDU's. You say it first in the government coalition, and today you're against it. So you didn't mind for three years, together you allowed the adoption of laws that, according to your claim, even mine, are helping that, and now you've remembered, because the election is coming, that it doesn't suit you. It's a little hypocritical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u83	Thank you. Mr Štětina and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u84	Hello. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it is not customary for me to have written speeches. I always try to talk to a point I understand, but this time I have prepared this very brief speech. I was just wondering if there's any point in bringing him in or not. When I hear unnecessary talk here and a very tedious discussion, I have come to the conclusion that I have to say these few words to you here. The failure of some political parties and movements to successfully present and promote policy to our citizens, and therefore to voters, because we are still voting, has led these parties to political impotence, which has resulted in the drafting of a law on conflict of interests of government politicians, which is nothing more than a restriction on political competition. After all, any political party or political movement can decide to publish their own newspapers or other periodicals, or even buy them. Going the other way, i.e. forbidding selected politicians to own selected companies operating in the media area, is a public expression of this impotence and inaccessibility of the political vision presented by the leaders of these parties and the movement. In my speech - I have about ten seconds left - I wanted to think about whether we mind that we have senators and MPs who are also regional representatives, officials who are mayors and mayors. Isn't that a conflict of interest, too? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u85	Thank you. With another point of fact, Mr Kučera, then Mrs Válková, then Mr Hájek, then Mr Kalousek. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u86	Thanks again for the word. I would very much like to thank President Faltýnek, who mentioned here how the Minister of Finance forgives taxes. She really is. As Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš forgives taxes to his companies, and even to a relatively large extent. I'm here to not just talk dry, of course I can say specific data. In 2012, at a time when Andrej Babiš was not Minister of Finance, companies from Agrofert received zero exceptions. In words zero, nothing. Two years later, companies from Agrofert were granted exemptions, seven companies, in total 1.56 billion. Crowns. Andrej Babiš, Minister of Finance, granted an exemption to its companies from Agrofert holding for 1.56 billion. Crowns. Please, if this doesn't strike anybody as a conflict of interest, I don't know what should be a bigger example than this example.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u87	I thank Mr Kučer. Mrs Válková and her factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u88	I would just like to go back to what I said here, that I will not see to the possible consequences of the adoption of an amendment to the conflict of interest law. In view of what I have heard here in the debate, what has been said, there might be the impression that I had in mind the financial compensation in the sense that some previous speakers have spoken here. I mean another law. It's really about other things. I was thinking more of European legislation. Indeed, also in the presidential veto, in the statement of reasons, Protocol No. 12 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It is part of the constitutional order and he says that the use of every right conferred by the law, in this case it is therefore a right to apply for any grant or investment incentive, must be ensured without discrimination, including because of property or other status. Of course, we can discuss to what extent the law can regulate these rights in more detail, more precisely, otherwise. But that is why I believe that we should do so by instruments of constitutional law, not by lower legal force, by laws. And that's what I was talking about in my performance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u89	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Hájek, please, with a factual point, after which Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u90	Mr President, the Minister is still here. [[Looking at the government bench]] Mr. Kučera didn't disappoint me, as always. He can always mix the concept and diarrhea. He was talking about Mr. Babiš tunneling through Čepro. Oh, my God! How's the fuel delivery going to Chepra? Of course, there must be a tender. Transparent tender. And you think Babiš is on that committee? Or the way it worked for you to put some cocksuckers in there who vote for it? [[Laughter.]] This is where my colleague Birke said that the mayors are polite. I don't have a problem with that. She invented a more sophisticated system. They ran it at the edges. Mr. Governor Rath, ROP case Northwest. Mr. Kušnierz started singing, so today it is. This means that you had a more sophisticated system, that if it didn't happen at city hall - of course it was also the possibility that I transferred it to a family member, and then it was transparent, that was discussed yesterday. Well, that's how it was done at the edges. So I really don't think that's a problem. Mr. Kalousek was talking about Babiš blowing the place up to that Jurečka, redistributing it, voting everything he wants. Who does, please, who approves the state budget? Doesn't the House approve of him? Doesn't the House have that control function so that if you suspect that there's a bigger money transfer from year to year, it can't react? Do you think Mr Kalousek, as Minister of Finance, would not respond if he found out that such transfers would be here? I think he'd actually react. And the last thing Mr. Kučera said was the mixed term with diarrhea. I beg your pardon, as he said, 1.5 billion. CZK - it was no tax forgiveness, please, it was investment incentives. Period, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u91	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, Mr Blažek, followed by Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u92	Thank you. On the last sentence that was said here, I would like to say that investment incentives are tax forgiveness. We can call it something else, but it's the same thing. I was appointed Mr. Faltýnek, I want to respond. Forgiving a fine for violating budgetary rules is not the subject of this law, it does not solve that law. But when the Member wanted to talk about it, yes, I am indeed a farm ruled by the Minister for the Green Party by Karel Schwarzenberg once forgave 4 million fines for violating budget rules exactly as I forgave dozens of other farms and dozens of other municipalities according to a transparent model, according to which the Ministry of Finance is still proceeding. Some fines are actually stifling, and since the purpose of the subsidy has not been violated, ministers forgive them. These are fines for breach of the budgetary rules, such as the absence of compliance with the terms of the procedure. Every mayor knows that. But I never forgave anyone a penny of tax. The idea that I would forgive myself for taxes that are now in the order of billions, when I was Minister of Finance, is an idea from another world. An idea that no public debate of any free state and no media would ever allow. It's only possible now. Minister Babiš forgives himself taxes in the order of more than billions a year. Sometimes, colleagues, try to calculate how much percent of Agrofert really pays taxes. You could count it on one hand's fingers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u93	Thank you, and that was the last point of fact so far. Mr Antonín Seďa, Mr Antonín Seďa, has not yet signed up for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u94	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I confess that I had a longer contribution prepared, but I already want us to vote in favour of the amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest, because I support it. And I'll say why, and I'll say three notes. First, the amendment on conflict of interest improves the current state and wording of the law, and the law will be more functional. That is why I will vote even though we learn from colleagues here that Section 4a, 4b, 4c is supposed to be unconstitutional, but that should be decided by the Constitutional Court. I don't know if there's any of us here on the microphone who can confirm that the Vice Prime Minister, the Treasury Secretary, is not in conflict of interest every day. I don't think you dare say that on a microphone. That's the first thing. Second thing. I understand that colleagues from the political movement YES 2011 here defend their president in the blood, but what bothers me is that here they insult social democracy and social democrats. I've been here a long time and I'm really offended when ANO colleagues here accuse members and MPs and other officials of social democracy. Third and final remark. You know, I'm not used to personalizing problems, but I have to say and remind you, and it has already been said here that your President Andrej Babiš, the current chairman of your political movement, the Minister of Finance and the First Vice-President of the Government, has also been very successful in building Czech capitalism with everything, and therefore especially with sharp elbows. And I'm not going to run into the details here, but I want you - and you must have read the one book that we all received as MPs, but the public, I urge the public to read the book Honourable Andrej Babiš by Dušan Válek, a book that was banned in Slovakia. Or rather the Czech book Babiš, the story of the oligarch by Tomáš Pergler. Maybe the information that's in there would be worth some thought and support this amendment to the conflict of interest law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u95	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Kalousek, Mr Blažek after him. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u96	As sharp as this discussion may be, it should be objective and fair. Yes, of course, no one here can say, not even the ANO colleagues, that the Minister of Finance Babiš is not in a frightening conflict of interest every day, which he also uses every day. But that is not primarily his responsibility, that is primarily the responsibility of Prime Minister Sobotka, who offered him a position as Minister of Finance in his government. If he offered him another job, for example. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, which Minister Babiš would certainly manage excellently, or the Minister of Culture, which would certainly be excellent given his cultural past, would not be so gigantic a conflict of interest. But Minister Sobotka offered him the finance minister's chair, and even in a recent interview, I think Diník said that he was ready for something like this next time after the election. So you, colleagues in social democracy, don't mind the conflict of interest so much. You just need to get him out of business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u97	Thank you, that was the last point of fact so far. Mr Petrtýl is another duly signed up, so far the last one for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u98	Mr President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I am only sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies on the second day, and I can honestly tell you that I am not surprised. [[Fun in the hall.]] Some phenomena, e.g. Slaving and all that, I, to tell you the truth, expected. But what really surprises me is the amount of time and energy spent without any result. I'm not even talking about the benefits anymore. Obviously, we have a problem here that one side cannot agree with the other and vice versa. However, this situation sometimes also happens outside politics, e.g. in trade negotiations. Then there are usually only two options - either these negotiations will end and both sides will go their own way, which we cannot do, or everyone involved will try to reach an agreement that will be acceptable to both sides. That should be our goal too. [[11.10 hours]] Therefore, if, in trade negotiations, the interested parties are so-called stuck on some issue and cannot agree, it is a good practice to skip the issue and resolve points where there is at least a basic consensus. Then they all return with cold heads to the original point. It is very common that what originally appeared to be an insurmountable problem is then relatively easy to solve with the distance of time. This procedure is used to ensure that the time of all participants is used as efficiently as possible. Let us now imagine that this hall and the entire service around this meeting we pay from our pockets. Let's get into it. Would we really do the same? Would we really waste our time like this? I believe not. Therefore, I propose to apply tried and proven practice. This means, first, solving things where there is at least an elementary consensus and then going back to the issues at issue. When we do some meaningful work together, maybe we can agree where it is not possible today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u99	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. You said the word I suggest, which is why I have to ask you if I should consider it a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u100	I haven't had the experience yet, but no.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u101	No, thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u102	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm not surprised. I understand my colleague hasn't even been here 24 hours. But perhaps all of us who have been watching the debate here about the conflict of interest law since yesterday afternoon have noticed, unlike Mr. Petrtýl, that the most members here are coming out of the YES movement. So who's keeping us here? [[Applause and laughter from the left and right side of the hall.]] Mr. Faltýnek, who spoke here for almost an hour. Mr. Komárek... Raise your hand from the YES movement, colleagues. You've all been performing. [[Laughter from the left and right side of the hall.]] So I would ask Mr Petrtýl to discuss these matters with his own colleagues in this Chamber of Deputies rather than burden the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u103	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Okleštěk. [[Minister Chvojka at the rapporteur's desk is on his way. Fun in the hall.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u104	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, colleague Chvojka grabbed his head and said Jesus Christ. I think he's transferring to KDU-ČSL. I just wanted to tell Mrs. Černochová through you. I'm so sorry. I didn't discuss it. I just did it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u105	Thank you. There. So far, the last party to the debate with priority rights is President Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have already spoken here, as my colleague Černochová has said, on this matter for a long time. So allow me just a few responses to what has been said here from some of my colleagues, and then - or I would like to ask that these comments of mine be left without comment, so that we can proceed to the vote and finally start dealing with laws on material distress, tax packages and other things. [[reactions in the room]] First - a response to my colleague František Laudát through Mr President. I would like to ask František, with whom we normally have rational discussions, not to comment on things he doesn't understand. And he wasn't talking shit. František was running a company, and we all know how it turned out. It was a Municipal House in Prague. So I would ask colleagues who have never done business not to comment on things that they really don't know anything about, and if they are already expressing themselves to say specifically how they are doing with public money in their pockets. That's what it said. But let's keep this debate really after the vote or for some other debate or for a coffee debate. I would like to explain to him, or I would like to hear from my colleague, Mr Laudát, how he is doing with public money in his pocket. Next thing you know, co-worker Zelienková. She repeated several times that Mr. Babiš told her that he would sell the company to Mr. Průš. It's a bit confused again, but it surprises me with Mrs. Zelienková because she was in business or in business, and it was clear that Mr. Babiš would comply with the conflict of interest law that he was paying and hand over the company's management to Mr. Průš and leave the company's organs and stop actively running the company, but he will remain the owner, he will retain the shares. [[with emphasis on the word procedure]] And that's the main principle and the dispute we've been having since the very beginning. I would then move on to my colleague Chvojka's response to why we did not make amendments. Well, because we didn't agree to it in principle. With the fact that it should be prohibited by law to own or restrict the owner by not being able to participate, or by those companies he owns, competitions where he competes for the prize. Even in Chepro, there is a competition for the prize, Mr colleague - now I don't know who said it, perhaps Kučera, through Mr President. "Babiš Passes State Grants" - that's what my colleague Benešík said. None of you have given any particular example. The only thing I said was the one that President Kalousek responded to, and he basically confirmed how it worked among the ministers in his government. But I don't want to go back to that. And I won't deny it, I'm just saying it to say things the way they really are. What bothers us most as an YES movement is - and I've said it here several times, and it's a shame the Prime Minister doesn't sit here. I started my speech yesterday, when I quoted the Prime Minister, when he appeared on Prima on 17 April last year and said that - and I will repeat the quote: I just want to say that the law will not work backwards, it should work on the newly appointed ministers in the future. That's all right, I guess. This is what we consider to be - how do we put this politely? - for a dagger in the back from my coalition partner. Because if it were for the new members of the government, of course - and it is still a question of what form, but unfortunately the debate was not possible, it was not even allowed - so it is definitely for some debate, for some discussion. But because the entire public knew that Mr. Babiš is the owner of this company, which employs 30,000 people and pays taxes here - and it is not true what Mr. Kalousek says that Agrofert does not pay taxes. These are publicly verifiable sources. Income tax is in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns a year. There were years when it was a billion, and tens of billions of crowns are health and social contributions to the state budget. But there is no point in discussing this with my colleague Kalousek through Mr President, because he still has the same rhetoric. But these are publicly available sources, so I think it's easy to verify. But the fundamental thing that bothers us is that the law starts to apply immediately, that it changes the conditions during the game and it is basically just a tool to damage a political competitor, a political opponent. I understand it from the opposition, I understand it from the Communist Party as well, but I do not understand it from the KDU-ČSL, but especially from the Prime Minister who knew who he was going to appoint as Minister of Finance. For three years we have ruled together, we rule, I believe that we will continue to discuss our coalition laws and that what we have promised to our public and voters will just be fulfilled by the end of the parliamentary term. But we are simply left with the taste of betrayal, especially on the part of Prime Minister Sobotka, because he has declared this publicly to the media, and then he has agreed on a different procedure with Mr Kalousek, and the result is this final form of this law. So that's just very briefly on my part. Please, if I've touched anyone in my speech, colleagues, let's leave it after the vote or the rounds. Now, please, let's vote so we can start doing the normal work that we're here for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u107	Thank you. With the factual remark of Mrs Černochová, after which Mr Laudát. President of the Laudat with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So now the chairman of the club ANO has illustrated to Mr Petrtýl what Mr Petrtýl pointed out. František Laudát appeared here, and I have to stand up for František Laudát, because unlike Mr. Faltýnek, I sat on the Supervisory Board of the Municipal House during the last parliamentary term. I know the results of the management of the Municipal House by Mr. František Laudát. I know how we handed over the Municipal House as a supervisory board. We handed him over in blue numbers! He was not in the red figures, unlike where he is now moving with your people, which you have newly installed in the Prague City Embassies. Unlike you, Mr. Faltýnek, through Mr. Vice-President, Mr. František Laudát, I remember him running around the Municipal House in the fitters, sleeping there, not having an hour, not a week, not a day's vacation to get the Municipal House in shape and look what it looks like today! It is the pride of the capital city of Prague. So, Mr. Faltýnek, I ask you, through the Vice-President, to apologize to Mr. Laudát here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u109	Mr. Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Then the factual remarks - Mr Benešík, Mr Koubek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u110	Thank you. If Mr. Faltýnek doesn't apologize to me for all the bullshit he's done with, and dirty - lying - I'm done with him. I'm telling you, zero deal! Because what he's doing here is very rude! You mít quite a chance to drive Prague now. Where are you going? I mean, look! She hasn't been in this stagnation since the 1990s. Bollocks, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah,
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u111	Thank you. Mr Benešík, with a factual remark. After that, Mr Koubek, Mr Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u112	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, it has been said here that Benešík said that Babiš is passing on subsidies. I'm not aware of that. I, in my opinion - maybe I will be corrected - said, I have spoken in general that whoever sits in government is passing on subsidies. If it was based on Mr. Babiš, I'm not aware. I'm not saying I'm right. I really - I meant it in general. And that law is formulated in general, so that someone sitting in government doesn't affect who they're going to pass to, or doesn't affect, him, his companies are going to be passed on subsidies, which I think is perfectly normal. And again, no one forbids Mr. Babiš to do business. No one, Mr. Babiš or anyone else, Bakal or anybody else, who used their know-how here in the '90s, as someone says, in the Wild East, to acquire property, no one forbids them to be in politics and entrepreneurs at the same time. I simply argue that I support this law, even if I am a little skeptical of its impact, as its promoters expect, so as to simply limit the ability of these people to decide that their companies will be drawing on state resources. Mr. Babiš can stay in politics. Mr Babiš may remain in his business and may continue to do business as a successful businessman, but without state subsidies, which he will decide on. That goes for everyone, not just Mr. Babiš. That is my position on this law, and I am no great promoter of this law. But I say, that's why I voted for him, and that's why I'm going to vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u113	Mr Koubek, his point of order. After that, Mr Faltýnek and Mr Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u114	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. To Mr Faltýnek. Honored colleague, you are here yesterday and today again pointed out, probably because of the viewers on screens on idnes.cz, that the Prime Minister is not here. It bothers me, too, that the Prime Minister isn't here. But frankly, I didn't see Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš here yesterday or today. So if you're criticizing someone that they're missing here, start with you first and sweep your own doorstep.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u115	Thank you. Mr Faltýnek and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u116	Thank you. Mr Babiš, unlike the Prime Minister - that is the response to Mr Koubek - does not enforce this law and does not enforce it. A colleague of Laudát. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apologize to František Laudát publicly. I didn't have the right information. Now I have the correct information that the joint stock company Municipal House managed in 2013 with a profit of CZK 25 million, etc., etc. So, František, through Mr President, if you accept my apology, I apologize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u117	Thank you. Mr Blažek and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u118	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on some of the words of my colleague Faltýnek and the new colleague Petrtýl, if I say the name correctly, if I apologize in advance. Look, I've been listening here since the YES movement for three years to certain statements that I think result from a complete misunderstanding of Parliament's role in any social system. You come from all the time - and these are the words: peace of mind, for us to have, we talk too much here, it costs a lot of money and so on. We're not gonna break up the Republic yet, and we're back where we were. But I didn't want to say that. Parliament is not here to make laws. That's all you've got. You come from a purely narrow legal concept that some division into some kind of power - parliament is supposed to make laws, and if it doesn't do them, it doesn't do its job. But that's a deep mistake. If no law has been passed here for a year, I dare say nothing tragic will happen at all. But cancel Parliament, the electoral system - and here is its role - so all social conflicts will be resolved on the streets. It's gonna cost blood, it's gonna be a lot more expensive than the calculations we've been sitting here for hours. And this is the fundamental social and political role of Parliament. The fact that we're going to have long and long discussions doesn't matter at all. But try to remove them, and you'll have barricades and revolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u119	I thank Mr Blažek for the educational window. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If anyone doesn't report, I'm done with the debate. We should vote, however, the President of the Dawn Parliamentary Club has announced his speech. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u120	Thank you for the floor. I have asked the President and you, too, for a ten-minute break at the club meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u121	Thank you and I declare a break by 11.38 pm, when the meeting of the House will continue with the vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-001-002.u122	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a break at the meeting of the Dawn Assembly. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. Article 50 (1) (a) 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic states that if the Chamber of Deputies insists on the passed law by an absolute majority of all Members, the law shall be declared. Otherwise, the law was not adopted. Please set the necessary number of votes to 101. It's already done. I'm going to unsubscribe you all now, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the following motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies will insist on a law amending Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House Press 564/14.' I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 21. 185 Members and Members are registered, for 129, against 49. I state that the resolution has been adopted and the law will be declared. I thank the Minister and end the discussion of this point. The next item is the item
