ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u1	3. Government bill on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended (Law on the Protection of the Monument Fund) /Smummal print 666/ - second reading This item was again discussed on 15 March 2017, when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman and the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mr Roman Procházka take the position at the rapporteur's table. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. Mr Jiří Junek is the first member of the suspended general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on some of my amendments, which I intend to read in the second reading to this law. At first reading, I spoke with a commentary on the present new law of monuments. In it, I expressed the view that the new conservation law is important for many particular reasons, and it is good to accept it. At the same time, I expressed the opinion that the proposal was prepared in the long term, was carefully processed and passed through a number of different discussions, seminars with the professional public, etc., and in this regard I also appreciated the Ministry of Culture's approach. However, at the same time, I was critical of some of the provisions of the proposed law, especially those dealing with archaeological activities, especially rescue archaeological research. For example, I mentioned the issue of issuing a binding opinion, the issue of neglected interventions, or the requirement for the lowest possible cost of rescue archaeological research. There was more, but I'm just naming some of these points. I said that I hope that these comments will be discussed within the subcommittee, committee, etc. This actually happened, various meetings took place, whether on the Ministry of Culture, it was on the subcommittee for culture, as well as on the Committee for Education and Culture, etc. So the discussion really was abundant, and I thank her for it, and I think that the whole discussion was factual and argumentatively well-founded on both sides. Thanks to this discussion and arguments that fell, etc., I have reviewed some of my proposed amendments, some I have withdrawn, some I have not worked with, some we have come to some compromises with representatives of the Ministry of Culture, which are then included in the overall amendment of the Committee on Education and Culture. From my point of view, it remained one problem point on which we did not find a consensus with the representatives of the Ministry of Culture, but I still consider it important, and therefore I decided to submit a relevant amendment to it. It is Section 83, namely "unhappy" proposed projects for rescue archaeological research. In my speech at first reading in the House, I explained why I think this matter is useless and should not be in the law at all. However, in the context of some search for compromises in the committee, in the subcommittee, I tried to separate the essential from the irrelevant in this. The point is that the construction of the rescue archaeological research project has a certain disadvantage. Paradoxically, the preparation of the research project assumes knowledge for an archaeologist that he cannot acquire otherwise than by research. He just doesn't know what's under that country, he can't look at it in any way. So all he can do is do some pre-research, some probes, etc. Such pre-research and preliminary archaeological research, perhaps, is possible in large area research, and here it also has some significance. That's where I'd understand, and that's where I'd understand. Otherwise, however, it is the case with smaller natural interventions and common line constructions. In them, logically, such pre-research and probes cannot be done, it would be unnecessary, it would be unnecessary to burden both the investor and the archaeologists. The time of archaeological research would be unnecessary, and it would certainly mean a great bureaucratic burden for the archaeologists themselves. For this reason, I propose insert a new paragraph 2 into Section 83, which would read: "The obligation to develop a rescue archaeological research project is always, whenever the extent of the excavation of at least 150 square metres of continuous surface area of at least 3 metres is assumed.' The 150 square meters is not an indication I would have called. He sucked out of his finger, but it's a dimension that archeology normally works with. It is a dimension to which natural persons do not pay the financial costs associated with the research for rescue archaeological research. So it's a thing that already works in archaeology, it's famous, and it's not a novelty, it's not some housenumero I made up. From my point of view, this proposed regulation significantly limits the administrative and therefore the financial intensity to smaller natural interventions and common line constructions. So that's the amendment I'm going to make. [[16.50 hours]] Then I propose another amendment. This no longer concerns archaeology. On the contrary, it concerns more or less general provisions on the protection of immovable cultural monuments. I just want to say that by means of both the present law and the future law, we are somehow restricting property owners registered as cultural monuments or even those who have their property in landmarks. We all know it. You have a property that is registered as a cultural monument, from the side of the landlords are placed on you various requirements as to what the facade should look like, what the windows should look like, what they should be made of, what they should be made of, etc. etc. And most of the time, what those landlords are demanding is much more expensive than what the owner would have used. So we actually limit the owners in some way, but we compensate very little. And so it is also built in this new proposal, when e.g. Article 21 and Article 31 states that the Czech Republic may - I repeat the word may - contribute to the owner of cultural monuments or property in the land of monuments in specified activities. So I'd change it, and I'd take the liberty of releasing that word. The section would then say that the Czech Republic contributes cultural monuments to the owner of its values and supports the presentation of cultural monuments and its cultural importance. So much for my two amendments. I will, of course, then join them in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u3	I thank Mr Junek. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u4	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr President, Minister, we discussed this bill in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and I must say that we were very embarrassed by it - at least some of them. We believe that the professional public, who is very critical of this bill, is often right. This law does not solve the key problems we have in protecting the monument fund in the Czech Republic, it does not solve such a question of the expectations of owners of state protected monuments that the state will help where it requires, in the interests of the future, that private owner or other owner, sometimes they are cities, municipalities, regions, etc., that there is some kind of guarantee of support and assistance, because this especially financial pressure makes it possible that often owners of state recognised and protected monuments do not want to do what is most important for the future of our country and the protection of monuments. We believe that the way individual criticisms come - and I am really just pointing out expert opinions. I have here an association of professional staff of monument care, I will try to quote at least part of the letter which, I suppose, most Members in the Chamber of Deputies have received, or perhaps just some, I do not know who they have sent it all to, but I suppose it is also a public letter to individual Members to deal with it. They say here: The association of professional staff of monument care does not agree with the proposed form of the bill on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the heritage. In contrast to the current state, it vaguely defines which works on cultural monuments fall within the competence of the authorities of state conservation, excluding from the powers of these authorities a number of activities in conservation zones, newly defining the territory without the need to carry out archaeological research, does not determine the key according to which the executive authorities of state conservation care are to assess interventions for conservation goods. In addition to the de facto limitation of the protection of the conservation fund, the law also significantly narrows, complicates and prevents documentation of the architectural heritage. This is a weakening of the positions of both fundamental pillars of all conservation care in the civilized states of the world. Moreover, the law does not define the protection of material cultural heritage as a public interest, contrary to the substantive intention of the law approved by the government at the beginning of its discussion... I will not read to the end, but, for example, two: The draft law on the conservation fund does not bring any further systemic change compared to the so-criticized 1987 standard, which, in part by law, is referred to as period-conditioned and significantly worse than the previous legal standard of the totalitarian state of 1958. This claim can be clearly substantiated by the press release of the bill, which describes as the most important change the possibility of compensating the costs incurred in the context of restrictions on property owners' property rights, which are not cultural monuments, but are located in conservation reserves and monument zones. Furthermore, there is a critical way in which the law has been discussed with professional organisations and with all those who come into contact with monuments. In discussing - and I believe that my colleagues will eventually support or recognise - when we discussed this law on the committee that it was very confusing, absolutely unprepared. I think it would be worth it if this law were not passed in the Chamber of Deputies, and we left it for the discussion of the future in the early parliamentary term. And for myself, I suggest we dismiss the law at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u5	I thank Mr Bendl. Another duly registered member is Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, allow me briefly to justify the amendments to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. In particular, I want vandalism and arbitrary graffiti, which are phenomena that, as such, and the consequences thereof, are not modified in the government's proposal, yet have a negative impact on our monuments and on the conservation fund. Furthermore, I want to better adapt the proceedings that are conducted with the conservation authorities, so that they correspond to the administrative breakdown of the capital city of Prague, because the proposed regulation contradicts the principle of subsidiarity, the principle of the concentration of governance in one place. And since the performance of the delegation in Prague is entrusted in a hundred different agendas with the status of the capital city of Prague, there is no reason why it should be otherwise in the area of conservation care. There is a three-stage system of state administration in the territory of the whole Republic and the bill is not a priori superior to the law on the capital city of Prague. All over the state, the scope of the conservation authorities is three-stage, i.e. Office of the municipality with extended scope - Regional Office - Ministry. It is therefore possible to issue so-called "built-in' proposals. a coordinated opinion, the purpose of which is to replace the more binding opinions of the institutions by a single administrative act. This is not allowed in the capital city of Prague. Only in the area of conservation care is the state administration carried out in Prague in two stages, i.e. at the level of the Magistrate - Ministry. All other state administrative matters of the municipalities with extended scope are entrusted to 22 urban parts. There are many situations that could be dealt with in coordinated negotiations between the institutions without going on in a complicated, lengthy way. This means that I am actually taking into account that on the territory of the capital city of Prague, the regional authority of the City of Prague and the municipal authority of the municipality with an extended area of Prague 1 to 22. As I have already mentioned, the principle of subsidiarity and decentralisation should be maintained here. [[17,00 hours]] Another my proposal responds to the development of technology, method of maintenance, protection and restoration of building or restored monuments, or real estate, where there is actually a very rapid development, and the monument institute still does not respond to this development flexibly enough, as well as does not respond adequately to changes in the way the public behaves. In this way, procedures and materials that are already chemically or technologically overcome and do not meet current needs are promoted. In the next amendment, I consider that, in addition to foundations and associations, they should have had the opportunity to appear as public and ask for information in advance on all proceedings initiated and the municipalities and urban areas in whose territory the work will be discussed in terms of the terms set out in this Act. It is not logical for local authorities arising from the elections under the law to be ignored as representing the rights and interests of citizens of the relevant territory. My next proposal is to divide the conservation of monuments according to significance. This is absolutely essential. In the present § 31, the care of the landmarks similar to those for the differentiation of the care of the conservation fund is completely missing. The diversification of care reflects the diversity of ownership relations in the Czech Republic, including the untouchable relationship of ownership, i.e. private. The proposal shall respect the financial requirements of the corrections and shall endeavour in particular in the case of paragraph 1. 3 prevent the requirements of the monument institute for the protection of long-standing artifacts or ordering disproportionately expensive repairs. According to another proposal, it is not logical for the proposal to be discussed with the municipality or the municipal part on whose territory the planned land of monuments should lie, which is also followed by the provisions of Section 28. How can the local authority concerned raise objections if they do not even know about this action? This is related to the earlier comment I was saying here from the point of view of the urban area concerned, the self-government concerned. Again it is marked especially in the capital city of Prague. [[Noise in the left side of the hall.]] The next proposal is aimed at the relevant paragraph, which states that the municipality is therefore a participant, i.e. the lowest degree of self-government. It should be, as I mentioned here, the city parts, which is an analogy to the previous ones. And for all cultural monuments as well as for all buildings in the historical territory, the monument institute has a comprehensive documentation showing the historical development of the building since the Middle Ages. There is therefore no reason for him not to be able to deliver his position immediately. It is the protection of private sector financial resources, possibly the protection of resources from subsidy programmes, which are limited to a certain period of time, and when failure to complete the construction, or virtually. its repair, albeit for procedural reasons, the owner of the property loses entitlement to the subsidy. It is then a direct damage to the interest of the private sector, which is enforceable, i.e. through civil law. Then these are the proposals that I was talking about, which therefore relate to vandalism. Despite the fact that vandalism can be withdrawn under certain provisions of the law, I consider it useful to define this activity explicitly in the law due to the seriousness and high degree of damage to the conservation fund, for example in the centre of Prague. Without accepting the proposed modifications, there is a risk of unauthorized disability by sanctions on the owner and vandalisation of existing sanctions against particularly certain vandals will therefore be of a symbolic nature, which is in proportion to the other sanctions contained in the law. [[unintelligible]] This means, there is a need, I suppose, that colleagues will also propose some adjustments concerning sanctions or administrative fines, so that the principle of proportionality is really there and that the seriousness of the error is respected in terms of administrative offences, which is not here, as I have suggested. And then finally, my last amendment is. The draft law imposes a number of obligations on the owners of the conservation fund, often very expensive, without providing them with means of protection in most cases and, on the contrary, preventing them from protecting them effectively in modern ways. From field practice in a number of cases, owners are unable to prevent vandalism by their own means, but in the event of this situation, they are paradoxically to be subjected to disproportionate sanctions by the monument institute, greater than the one who caused them the damage, which I also think is inadequate. The owner of the property located in the historical territory has theoretically the possibility to ask the Ministry of Culture for a contribution, but in the budget of the Ministry for this agenda, which is said to be approximately CZK 7 million per year for the entire territory of the Czech Republic - CZK 7 million - this option is more hypothetical than real. I've inserted suggestions into the system. They're listed separately. I think they can be judged separately, not at the same time. I will then join them in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u7	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Let's keep going. Antonín Seďa will speak after his colleague Plíšek, but I will ask him for a little patience because I will load the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 16.30 to the end of the day, Mr Milan Urban apologizes, from 17.30 to the end of the day, Martin Komárek and from 18.00 to the end of the day, Mr Karel Pražák. Now a colleague of Antonín Seďa. Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I have already performed twice in the amendment to the Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund and I have asked the Minister for the preparation of the draft law according to the comments of professional organizations or the inspection of monuments. It also pointed out the possibility of increasing corruption, the double-trackness of conservation care, the non-solving of cultural monuments from the period of effectiveness of Act No. 22/1958 Coll., or non-solving the issue of urbanism and strengthening the rights of the general public. I have tried to solve the fundamental problem in my somewhat complex amendment, which contains a total of 23 amended topics, and this is the introduction of urbanism into the conservation law to protect the city or the conservation reserve as a whole. I also propose a contribution from the state to repair and unprotected development, because unregulated interference to unregistered buildings threatens panorama and individual monuments. It should be noted that the monument can be damaged by inappropriate development in its surroundings. The honourable Member, honourable Members, the public's right to participate in decision-making on the city, provides for a convention on the protection of the architectural heritage of Europe, Grenada 1885, which has been in force with us since 2000. Every city is the environment of society. In addition to the values of cultural and significant value for the needs of man, historic cities have the right to make decisions about their environment, and it does not matter whether in nature, in the city or in the village. Therefore, I propose a greater degree of public participation. After all, architectural heritage belongs to immovable monuments and creates the environment of society. From the above, I would like to ask you in advance to support my amendments, which I will sign up for in detail in the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u9	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa for his speech. It is now Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková's turn in the general debate, and a colleague Nekl will be prepared. Madame, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, as has been said several times, officials of the Ministry of Culture have been trying for almost 20 years to create a new law that should better protect monuments, make life easier for owners who own them or wish to correct them. After 20 years of different stages of preparation, officials led this law under the leadership of the Minister to the phase of the government bill, which, as we have seen ourselves, according to them, is the best thing that could have come into existence. I am not alone in the criticism of this bill, not only by professional but also by construction organisations. But as I learned, these critics, according to the Ministry of Culture, did not understand this proposal at all. It's a startling statement that made me get to know some of those arguments. [[17.10 hours]] First of all, it is ruthless that ministerial servants have completely neglected to protect intangible cultural heritage. These include folk customs, traditions and artistic skills. In 2011, UNESCO registered, for example, the king's ride on the list of masterpieces of the oral and intangible heritage of mankind. It was therefore a surprise to me that I could not find a word about this in the draft laws on intangible inheritance. I do not think that the basic lack of people who maintain all the strength of tradition in the regions will be thanked to the Minister. I also expected that lawmakers would try to level up an unsustainable situation where the owner of the plot in the protected area wanted to build a new building and the staff of the National Heritage Institute would formulate requirements for the project to simply process and hand over to the Department of Monument Care. However, it is often the case that the body of state conservation will issue a decision which is completely contradictory to the opinion of the expert organisation, and thus the investor becomes the one who spent the funds and actually threw them out the window. A few weeks ago, we adopted a law to make building proceedings more effective. Unfortunately, the Minister's proposal goes against this spirit and the legal uncertainty of owners, investors and cultural monuments themselves. Each of you colleagues knows at least one monument or cultural property whose owners have run out of money and patience due to official delays. Another proof that the Minister is presenting us with a pro-corruption law is § 32 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) c), which in practice looks like this: Centrum České Budějovice is protected by urban conservation. It is protected so that the historical core is preserved and sensitively developed with respect to the historical values. And this paragraph makes it possible to mark buildings that will not have to be repaired under the supervision of conservation care, and on the grounds that are in these zones, any object can be built without respecting the fact that it stands in a conservation reserve. I think that's exactly what the developers were waiting for, and they finally got there. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to tire you of the list of paragraphs that go literally against the importance of the institution, which the Ministry of Culture is certainly. It only needs to look at the number of amendments. In the meantime, I have so many that it is proposed to fundamentally rephrase or dismiss 118 paragraphs out of 140. No minister has ever presented such quality legislation to us. The Ministry of Culture and Officials had three years to develop and produce new, modern legislation that would bring order in the field of conservation care. The fact that the law put forward by the Minister is indeed flawed also demonstrates criticism, and it has been mentioned here since the beginning of both the opposition negotiations, where it is assumed, but unfortunately also from among the coalitions. Not that I believe in symbolism, but I will not forgive myself for one comment at the end, and I would like to point out to the Minister that the House press bears the number 666. Therefore, if the Minister does not listen to arguments, symbolism will have to be listened to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u11	Thank you, Mrs Gabriela Hubáčková, and we will now proceed to Mr Josef Nekl's speech, Mrs Jana Lorencová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the Government's proposal for a new conservation law, it can be said that it is exceptional, and it is exceptional in how many possible parties and perspectives it is rejected and how it actually has zero social support. The Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund, which is intended to replace the current Act on State Monument Care, means Act No. 20/1987 Coll., does not bring improvement in the protection of cultural heritage or strengthening the legal certainty of owners. It is an irrefutable law that harms not only the public interest to protect, i.e. monuments or more generally cultural heritage, but also adversely affects citizens, owners of monuments and professional professions involved in the preservation and restoration of monuments, as described below. It's really hard to tell who more. The law, which makes it difficult to deal properly with requests in administrative proceedings, gives rise to very long periods of time, or even does not allow the number of interventions to be dealt with regularly at all. They damage the historical constructions that they need repairs and their owners and ultimately the entire company. The proposed law brings confusion into the present system of monument care and prevents rational protection and restoration of monuments. The extensive, complex and bureaucratic bill of today's, certainly not ideal, will make the situation more difficult and difficult. In order to protect national cultural heritage and the rights and freedoms of citizens in the proposed form, it should be rejected for the following reasons: 1. The law reduces the protection of monuments and landmarks, now under the new name of the conservation fund, by reducing the required expertise in administrative proceedings. At the same time, it increases the costs of owners and companies. Cargo is, for example, a plan of protection, the definition of territory with excluded archaeological findings, the compulsory processing of a constructional historical survey of cultural monuments under all circumstances. However, these costly documentation and their mechanical mandatory implementation are of little importance to the knowledge of monuments and their protection, and the professional public unanimously rejects them as ineffective. The law, which fails to properly define the professional practices by which public interest is protected and makes them mandatory on a flat-rate basis, is inefficient and socially senseless. It will not benefit anyone, except perhaps a narrow layer of bureaucrats - contracting authorities. In terms of overall efficiency, the law characterizes a well-established popular proverb for more money less music. 2. The law reduces the legal certainty of owners. This is socially, politically and systemicly unacceptable. The owners bear the burden of public interest - the preservation of cultural heritage. This means, mostly more complex and demanding, i.e. more expensive repairs than for ordinary buildings or houses where conservation is not taken into account, various restrictions on the use of such buildings. In such a situation, the company must help the owners of the monuments through the conservation law. He can't keep a conservation fund without the owners. They must help them to bear the burden of public interest in monuments. However, the law does the opposite of the current situation, but it does not seem to do so. Of course, it doesn't say that he's going to bully the owners over a reasonable amount of peace. Of course. However, the text of the law states that it actually treats owners in this way. Even duly approved modifications to the monuments may be removed by the State, the administrative authority, if it so wishes. For example, in accordance with the law, public authorities have authorised a binding position of the soil installation or superstructure of an object, but if another administrative authority changes its mind in the review procedure, it may order it to be removed. At whose expense? The law doesn't solve that. The withdrawal of the binding opinion in the review procedure indicates a state error and is almost impossible to defend against it either by administrative or judicial means. Owner of any cottage to need elite lawyers. Another case is also worth paying attention: When proceedings are under way for a declaration of the building as a cultural monument, the handling of the owner of the property is limited, and there are no deadlines for deciding whether or not the building will eventually be declared as a monument. This uncertain condition can last months, even years. If the research institution remembers, it will be able to undertake research activities at any place of residence of citizens and against their will. This is not about eliminating an emergency or a natural disaster or terrorism or any danger, but about a research institution's plan. If the research doesn't allow the citizen, he'll be fined hundreds of thousands. [[17.20 hours]] 3. The law creates false expectations and hopes that not only the owner of the cultural monument can newly apply for the subsidy, but also the owner of the building in a landmark that is not declared a cultural monument. This will multiply the number of owners who can apply, but the funds will not increase. In a situation where hundreds of monuments are seriously damaged, it is rather a political gesture. Not bad in general, I'm sure. However, if it is distributed to less valuable buildings, there will be less for the most valuable, that is, cultural monuments. The designers say that the owners of the monuments and the owners of the buildings on the protected land, which are not declared monuments, have the same responsibilities, but different rights. But that's the mistake. Owners of declared monuments should have a greater duty. Constructions are a famous monument. Then this system would be fair. However, it is not clear from the draft law what is the difference between the cultural monument and the building on a protected land that is not a monument. That's a serious flaw in the law. 4. The law is completely unbalanced. He avoids important topics and enjoys the detailed pedantic definition of the responsibilities of different people. The content of some important activities is described in zero, in part or in insufficient form, the content of other activities too detailed at the level of the implementing regulation. The law is overall disproportionary and does not capture the reality of conservation care at all. Framework examples - set out precisely before the legislative board of the Government is consulted; now /04/17/ the proportions may vary by about 5 per cent. Designing reconstruction of real estate monuments - zero mention of rescue archaeological research: nine paragraphs, 8-88, 2 100 words. Content of binding opinions: Section 52, 96 words. And offenses: paragraph 125-129, five paragraphs, 3 372 words. Content of binding opinions: Section 52, 96 words versus regulated activity: 26 paragraphs, 4 950 words! The only mention of a restoration survey - paragraph 49 - compared to the solution in the provisions on building historical research in a total of about 20 paragraphs. Moreover, the proposed law is not coordinated with the construction law, so it will certainly also cause conflicts of competence between the administration itself, which will once again be felt by citizens. 5. The law quite poorly describes the various professional activities and documentation that are carried out in the restoration of monuments, so that these documentation cannot be carried out largely under the law at all. This is particularly true of building historical research and restoration. In doing so, the administrative procedure under the draft law will require such documentation. This will create confusion and chaos and extend administrative deadlines. This will have a negative impact on all stakeholders - owners, experts and the official apparatus - and will make it more difficult to restore the conservation fund and harm citizens. The opposite was supposed to be the goal of the law. Efficiency and transparency... 6. The law does not respond at all to the development in the field of restoration of monuments and historical buildings and is targeted against the good traditions of Czech monument care in the field of urban protection, against the European important tradition of the Czech restoration school and against the existing systematic documentation of the conservation fund in the system of building historical surveys. This is evident in the whole text of the law. It is not usual for the government's bill to be so vehemently defended by the profession concerned. So I guess there's a very serious reason for that. Useful practices and methods that have evolved in the area of conservation in the Czech Republic and are even internationally recognized, the law ignores, or is perverted. Instead, it sets out, without knowledge of the practice, invented complex and inefficient bureaucratic procedures and conditions for people who work in the field of expertise. 7. The law is discriminatory against professional professions. Some he regulates, some he doesn't. To those regulated - restorers, building historians and archaeologists - he behaves, you might say, bullying. Controlled experts can be tested every two years and are granted eight-, two- and a half million fines for fictitious offences, which is for these professional disciplines with minor turnovers completely liquidation. For example, the builder of the historical survey must submit this survey to the monument institute under a fine of CZK half a million within the month of its completion. At the same time, it is handed over to the owner and must submit it to administrative proceedings, where the National Heritage Institute can retain it. In the field of historical research, those who carried out SHP before the law was effective do not allow them to obtain permission to carry out it under the proposed law. This is a very small group of qualified experts, with a total of about 120 in the Republic. It represents the professional core of monument care. The state should care for the number of such people to grow, and it should help them in their hard work, not to reduce their numbers completely demotivating and financially liquidating by regulation. 8. Also, the traditional field of restoration does not experience easy times in a liberal capitalist economy. As they say, he's holding on to the water. It will not be excessive to say that these patient people, the careful restorers of past art works, are much indebted to society and should appreciate them. On the contrary, the new law will make it much more difficult to perform restoration. It's counterproductive and pointless. But there's no misunderstanding. I'm bohužel so. Restaurants and building historians criticize the Ministry of Culture and the way the resort is managed for a long time. The right of freedom of speech cannot be taken away from them by ministerial servants, so at least they have proposed a law which will completely issue these professions into the decision-making of the ministerial office. It's a sad statement about today's affairs, but it's true. The wording and diction of the law treats qualified persons, experts who carry out regulated activities as delinquents, which is an entirely unacceptable environment for professional activity and has been criticised repeatedly in the press by the authorities of the field of conservation care. The Ministry of Culture claims that the law has been properly recalled and discussed with stakeholders and professions. It is known that the comments of the regions or, for example, the Czech Chamber of Architects were balanced in a rough manner and in power. With restorers, processors of constructional historical surveys, or with professional workers, if I have information about monument care, then no one has acted at all. Therefore, the bill does not agree with it or through professional associations it has serious reservations from restorers, building historians, professionals of monument care, architects, as well as authentic conservation activists, or academics, professors and professors in the fields of conservation care. The association of homeowners disagrees with it, and, as is evident from the lengthy discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, a number of Members in the Chamber of Deputies. To sum up, the bill is not feasible in the proposed text and will lead to a collapse of administrative proceedings, which he believes will be conducted. The amendments made to it are generally good and qualified. Fellow Members seem to understand things better than the appellants. But the law cannot be saved by almost sixty amendments. The risk of a failed and dysfunctional result in so many votes on individual proposals is too great and the conservation fund is too valuable. In conclusion, the proposed law will fundamentally jeopardise the property rights of a significant part of the population of the Czech Republic as well as the cultural heritage itself. I cannot imagine that such a law could be passed, and therefore I propose to reject the proposed bill, thereby joining the same proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u13	I thank Mr Josef Nekl, the rapporteur... I have noted the motion for rejection, which is repeated. And we continue the debate with the speech of Mrs Jana Lorencová. My colleague Chalánková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, the law in its present form is very poor. It should at least be supplemented by the following points. It does not address intangible cultural monuments. It does not address the issue of protection of urban and architectural values of protected areas. It does not address the consolidation of public participation. I therefore propose the abolition of two-track conservation. A more detailed explanation requires protection of urban and architectural values of the protected area. He doesn't know the law. It doesn't define them, so it doesn't protect them. It did not do so even at the same time still applicable law No. 20/1986 Coll. The current complete absence, consensus not only in the conservation of the city's urban values, individual cultural monuments of the self-interest of developers without their limitations by law. [[17.30 hours]] There is literally a wild privatization of cultural heritage. At the same time, historical urbanism and the compensatory values of monuments are the most valuable cultural heritage. They affect fundamentally the quality of the artificial environment, the city, and thus the everyday life of each and every one of us, their inhabitants. Their influence affects the entire social spectrum. We all know and know from experience the feeling of safety and well-being in ancient alleys and squares of historic cities. It's not just about romance or sentiment. It awakens in us the communion and empathy of others around us. Empathy, it's empathy to the feeling of another, the estimation of his behavior. It is the basis of human cooperation and the basis of civilization. By what means does historical urbanism and architecture accomplish this? The explanations in modern times provided extensive psychoanalytic surveys, visual perception. Immanuel Kant already knew that visual perception of the environment and subsequent orientation began with the perception of the defined space. If missing or chaotic, orientation is extremely difficult. Historical urban areas are optically closed. The building that creates them supports their harmonious integrity, individual houses retain their individuality, but do not break it as a whole. Old builders intuitively fulfilled the conditions for our innate prerequisites of visual perception, rapid orientation, feeling of security. Modern urbanism, as we know it mainly from our housing estates, consists of isolated solitaires that do not create space. While ensuring good sunshine, it has not yet fulfilled the city's mission to bring society together. On the contrary, the feeling of disorientation, known from our housing estates, and even alienation among humans, has been aroused so far. The square and street with a human scale are missing. Historical architecture is broken. The membership of the whole is not a self-purpose decoration, it helps us estimate the scale of the construction. In detail, he connects emotional connections with the viewer. So far, so-called contemporary architecture has not been able to do all of this. It often enters the historical environment aggressively, regardless of the scale of the surrounding area, shatters the unity of space and creates chaos. So we must finally realise that the city is an artificial environment for a society that rightly expects existential support here. Its rights to participation cannot be questioned. Historical cities will satisfy our mental, cultural and emotional needs like nature and landscape. Therefore, their protection should be legally anchored in the law of monument, construction and conservation of nature and landscape at the same time. The monument urbanism, which we supplement into the law, generates land-use planning documents within the meaning of the construction law, is a link between the building law and the conservation law. In this sense, the document Policy of Architecture and Construction Culture, the topic three, measures 3.2.2 and 3.2.3 also speaks. This would result in land-use planning documentation improving the conditions for investors, suppressing corruption and simplifying the discussion of project documentation. Given the strong response of both the professional and lay public, I propose rejecting the law at third reading. If his rejection doesn't happen, then I suggest we return him to second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u15	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. I will ask - because in the previous debate, you proposed, Madame, that the bill be returned to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. That's true, then. This will be a new proposal that we need to clarify with the rapporteur. Okay, thank you. Denial shall be put to the vote at third reading. This is not a matter of second reading, so we need to discuss this. Thank you. Now, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, Mrs Nina Nováková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I regret that once again we have a proposal from the workshop of this government from a ministry other than the one with which I come into contact more often, and again this proposal does not have sufficient conceptual basis and, above all, a consensus with the professional public. I am sorry that we are receiving from the Government such proposals, which are then adapted during the debate in the House by means of various amendments. Allow me to comment on several amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. As regards the amendment that you have in the system under number 5791, it concerns § 52. The provisions of the amendment address frequent situations in which proceedings conducted under the conservation law or proceedings by which the authorities of conservation services apply a binding position, in breach of the administrative order, are dragged without justification for many months. Such situations threaten the applicant, respectively. owners of cultural monuments and other buildings on landmark reserves and zones in the consumption of their property rights. The Government's bill does not treat this situation in any way. The amendment explicitly provides for a period of time for the body to issue an assessment even in particularly complex cases. In this amendment, which you have under this number, which I have mentioned, I also touch on Section 51, which I amend to the text available to you. A government proposal that distinguishes in paragraph two between situations where the expression of the monument is mandatory, such as the national cultural monument of the request for restoration, monuments with international status, and where it depends on the liking of an administrative official or monument, these are the other cases which represent the vast majority of the administrative agenda, is a potential source of corruption on both the part of the administrative office and the monument institute. This provision is particularly dubious from a professional point of view, for example, in cultural monuments. It is not clear why, for example, the restoration of modern decorative painting or stucco decorations from the late 19th century in a house that is a cultural monument must always be issued an expression of the monument, while the total repair of this house or, for example, medieval fortress must not. Such an approach is unsystemic and significantly reflected in the historical practice from a territorial point of view. In places or territories where UNESCO monuments are, such expressions will be issued many times more than in others. Furthermore, I also have an amendment to Section 19, when the Government's proposal abolishes the obligation to request the Regional Authority's position as enshrined in the current Monument Act. The Regional Authority thus loses the opportunity to comment on the expansion of the conservation fund. Therefore, an amendment is inserted into the law by a paragraph that ensures the mandatory opinions of the Regional Authority. Let me also comment on another amendment that you have in the system under number 5792. Here I am touching the amendment to Section 12 concerning the monument institute under point (e). Today's National Monument Institute, respectively. The monument institute, according to the government bill, is not and will not be able to document work on all cultural monuments and other buildings in the landmarks. The reference to the fact that this activity is carried out by the Monument Institute on the basis of its own considerations is put into the law primarily to stress that the Monument Institute is a professional institution which itself chooses what constructions it will document and also to take account of the user identification of the law, in particular in order to dispel any presumption that these activities are free of charge within the meaning of the provisions of point (g) of the Government Bill. I'm sure you'll find more in the whole system. [[17.40 hours]] Let me briefly comment on another amendment that you have in your system under number 5793 and which concerns § 82. The next is Section 87, where paragraph 6 is deleted. It is not fair to require that archeological persons who have no connection to public budgets pay the costs of archaeological research for housing needs up to 150 square metres of built-up area and related buildings which are necessary for the use of the building for housing pursuant to § 87 para. 1 of its own funds. The present content of § 87 para. 6 allowing, where appropriate, the Ministry of Culture's subsidy without any transparent criteria is clearly creating a corrupt environment. Here I also touch on sections 38 to 40, which also concern archaeological findings. Furthermore, allow me to mention my amendment, which you have in the system under number 5794 and concerns Sections 32, 33 and 34 and the protection plan. The protection plan is obsolete, socially costly and in practice an unused instrument for protecting the conservation of the conservation fund, which is redundant. In essence, it contradicts the regulations of higher legal force relating to the protection of landmarks and is not aligned with the system of land-use planning documentation. Since 2008, when it was introduced, it has only been applied in a few cases. It would create confusion in planning the development of settlements. Since the protection plans are almost not implemented and no one misses them, their inclusion in the new conservation law is unnecessary. Another amendment to me is the proposal that you have in the system under number 5795 and concerns § 152 and it concerns effectiveness. Section 152 of the Government Bill is amended to the following text: § 152. This Act shall take effect on 1 January 2020. The reason is this. The Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund represents an unprecedented amount of intervention in the practice of historical care and requires careful preparation by stakeholders, authorities and professional institutions. In particular, the task is to create a list of monuments with all its belongings. Given the considerable delay in the legislative process, when the law, which was in the Government's 2014 legislative plan, will be approved at the earliest in the summer of this year, perhaps, the time for the real preparation of all the requirements for its implementation on 1 January 2018 is completely insufficient. The Ministry of Culture has to date, instead of expected time, about one and a half to two years to prepare for putting into practice at best several months. Therefore, the period of application of the law is postponed so that the formalities for non-discriminatory implementation of the law can be ensured and the law as a whole has been enforceable and actually effective. Another of my amendments is the proposal that you have in the system under number 5796 and this amendment removes some serious shortcomings in the bill, but not all of it, because its whole concept is flawed and cannot be fully corrected by the amendments. It is a common situation in which Members are driven to cooperate or approve the proposals of this Government. I'm sorry. The next amendment is under number 5897 and concerns the amendment to Section 20, when the provisions of Section 20 (2) are applicable. 1 reads: (1) The owner may not, during the proceedings for a declaration of cultural memory, damage or destroy his or her cause or structure, and, in the case of a moving matter, move it outside the territory of the Czech Republic. The draft law makes it completely illogical that although the owner may not destroy the matter or the construction on which the proceedings for a declaration of cultural heritage are conducted, he may damage it with impunity. The amendment eliminates this serious deficiency. This amendment under number 5897 also includes an amendment to Section 52, when § 52 para. 2 is added by the sentence: The conditions must be based on the current state of knowledge of cultural historical values, which must be maintained during the intended works or restoration of cultural monuments. The reason is as follows: The absence of provisions on the need to maintain culturally historical values in the intended works or restoration of cultural monuments is completely misleading and, in practice, the most frequent agenda would become meaningless in the performance of conservation care. This serious deficiency is removed by inserting an additional sentence, as is the case in Section 14 (2) of the Guidelines. 3 of the legislation in force. This topic is so crucial that it requires a comment on the example. For example, the construction project of the Baroque rectory is considered. The body of monument care has learned its cultural historical values and is able to safely identify the interventions of the project. What's next? There is really no connection between knowing the values of things and dealing with them. This gap must be bridged by the legislator's saying what to do, what to decide, and its task is to assess what will happen when the project is implemented and whether culturally historical values will remain preserved. The concept of conservation is crucial in the care of monuments, because it protects monuments by preserving them, perhaps more appropriately called conservation. At the same time, it is clear that values can be defined in number for each construction. Each intervention in the construction during its course of action has, for example, a documentary value. However, everything can be preserved in very few cases. Therefore, the administrative authority is governed by the legislature when the law states that these are those values which must be maintained. The values of the building in a free society are not a mechanical regulation. They need to be interpreted, precisely on the basis of the legal state of knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention, for allowing me to introduce you and justify my amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u17	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Before we go any further, I'll read an apology. The President of the Chamber of Deputies apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the sitting day for personal reasons, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová. Now, Mrs Lorencová's point of view. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u18	I'm sorry. I withdraw the motion to move to second reading and insist on rejecting the law in its entirety.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u19	Yes. The proposal you filed for 15. 3., was pursuant to § 93 para. 2 which has been put to the vote, and in that case, no vote shall be taken on it. I have noted it, and so has the rapporteur. We can continue, with Mrs Nováková's speech, to prepare Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I can direct. The Minister of Culture here hears too many critical voices. I think that the fact that this law has been discussed for so long and that for so long, the debate about it has actually been dragged along, has brought about some positive features. At the very least, the Members have been given a thorough education. I, because I myself organized several seminars as a member of the subcommittee on culture, etc., so today, when I listened to the amendments, I thought to myself, this is Docent Poláková, this is Dr Holeček etc. It's positive, I think, because at least for most of the public, attention has been drawn to what it really is to protect the conservation of the conservation fund. I will now try very briefly, because some of the amendments are really similar, and it is across the political spectrum, and I will try very briefly to make four amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. [[17.50 hours]] One of them concerns the relationship between the private owner of the cultural monument and the legitimate efforts of our public to preserve what is valuable in the cultural monument. Whoever owns the cultural monument is in two roles. For one thing, he's as good as any man, even if he has an ugly family home, taking care of his property so that he looks decent and decent. But then there's another added value, and that's the value of the cultural monument itself. And here the private owner of this monument is in an unequal competition with all the others who own some property, because no one is going to help him preserve the value that the entire public is interested in. That is the essence of my very short amendment number 1, and then I will read it, and I will sign up for it. So here it is, not that the Ministry or anyone considers that it will contribute to the owner of the cultural monument - I don't think about repairing the monument in general, but to the part that will preserve the cultural value, the conservation value, so here I would like to suggest that the owner of the cultural monument should have the right to a contribution, to cover the costs of preserving the values of the cultural monument. The second amendment relates essentially to the qualifications of people who process the protection plan or map out the value of the historical monument. So now I'm talking about a material cultural monument. Restorers work there on the one hand, they enter the monument itself, but archaeological research is carried out before and often a historical survey is carried out. And the professional public here, I really think, is right to refuse to consider this activity regulated. It is so multidisciplinary that it is to say that the person who then presents the historical survey is to have either a university education in the field of construction or architecture, or, on the contrary, to be a historian or archivist, it is always multidisciplinary. So here, on the basis of really many debates with the professional public, I tend not to regulate this trade any longer. And now I would ask very much, I do not have to do it either through the President, the Minister's attention. I think that the long debate has also brought up the possibility that we have started to debate the basic concepts that are mentioned in the first paragraphs, and that is what it is, in fact, the monument fund, and as one Member has already mentioned, that it is not only material cultural monuments but also intangible. Now, let me explain as briefly as possible the changes I propose in paragraph 1. There is talk of the proposed law to protect the monument fund, so it is called, we call it a monument, regulates the protection of the monument fund, and the original there speaks of a national cultural treasure. This term national cultural treasure is no longer mentioned in those dozens of paragraphs, and if you Google it somewhere, etc., there is a project that ended in 2016, I think, which was called a national cultural treasure, and I think it has no reason to do so. And in a situation where we have not been able to present a culture law throughout this parliamentary term that would say what culture is to us and what it is worth to us, at least here in Section 1 we could use what is common in the Constitution. Or a monument fund, where I dare to suggest, is as part of the inherited natural and cultural, material and spiritual wealth and, of course, is also part of the European and world cultural heritage. So I took the liberty of using what we have in the Constitution, so that's very harmonious. Well, that's the first change. And then, in my amendment, I dare to work with the concept of intangible cultural heritage. I offer a possible definition that the memory of intangible cultural heritage is a masterpiece of oral and non-material heritage, which is created or co-created by human activity and represents a significant milestone in the development of cultural traditions, is a demonstration of their development stages and is linked to important circumstances, events or areas of human activity and is included in the list of intangible cultural heritage. This is where we copy in the last part that I just said, how he works with the intangible cultural monuments of UNESCO. And there's no reason we don't have those kind of lists either. Speaking of intangible cultural heritage, I have already mentioned this, we have a spiritual heritage, an intangible heritage in the Constitution. It has to be said that no memory - now I understand that you can blame me, as I am a philosopher, that I am a bit of a philosopher - but no memory, nothing material comes without an idea, without an idea, without an idea. So what's going to be put in there is the very idea that's very important, and it's a very important element, let's say, even material monuments, and it's extremely important. And then these intangible cultural monuments, such as customs, art, know-how we would say in a modern sense, I think that's indisputable and it's something very important too. This amendment is then followed by another amendment which demonstrates how it could be applied - applying the protection of intangible monuments. And we're used to repairing sacral monuments, that is. For example, churches, and in them they are usually of great value, such as the organ. But when we look at it hiking, it's: look how beautiful the organ is and what beautiful statues are there and how decorative it is. But we, in modern conservation of monuments, must also approach the fact that it is a musical instrument and that the musical instrument is not enough only when it is a good closet. Of course, the closet is essential for the musical instrument to make sounds. And in order for a musical instrument to make sounds, there has to be an artist who plays it. And this connection is beautifully seen especially in our organist art. We, ladies and gentlemen, are at the top of the European cultural heritage in terms of the number of valuable organs. We could talk about bells as well. The bell itself is nothing, only when the heart rings the bell is worth the sound of the bell. This, therefore, concerns my amendment, which I will then apply to. [[18.00 hours]] I have four amendments, one concerning the fact that construction-historical research should not be a regulated activity. The second concerns that the owner of the cultural monument should be entitled to help the state, to preserve those values that are valuable to our public. The third proposal, which I was just talking about, also talks about the sound cultural monument next to the technical cultural monument. We have really valuable tools. What I consider most important is an attempt to define what a conservation fund is and to bring this legislative standard into line with our highest legislative standard and that is the preamble to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Thank you. In a detailed debate, I will read the numbers of the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u21	Thank you, Mrs Nina Nováková. Mr Tomio Okamura is now ready to speak, and then Mrs Fischerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are discussing this bill in this form seems rather sad to me, because culture is something that we can all agree on. In this case, however, artists, technicians, conservationists, restorers and architects rarely agree that this is nonsense. It also brings about 100 paragraphs, which only complicate and bureaucraticize the protection of monuments. On the other hand, the authors clearly missed the chance and the need to modernise the current law and, among other things, to bring it into line with the international conventions on the protection of monuments. For example, the International Charter on the Conservation and Restoration of Monuments and Sites, which has been signed by the Czech Republic since 1964, is missing. If this charter were to be respected during restoration, there could never be such atrocities as we have witnessed in the repair of Charles Bridge, which still sees an eye on a simple layman. I am not an expert on legislation or monuments, but I, too, have stared in disbelief at the preamble to the law, which says that cultural monument is merely material evidence of human activity. People's songs, traditions, Švejk, but maybe our language does not belong in our culture and are not a monument to our culture? It is clear to the layman that even intangible works and monuments are a cultural monument. And wonder for the world, it attacked everyone on the entire planet except us. So in 2001, UNESCO extended its list of protected monuments of world cultural heritage to intangible monuments. Five intangible monuments from the Czech Republic have already been added to the UNESCO list of masters of intangible monuments. They are basically folk customs and traditions, such as verbuňk, carnival parades with masks on Hlinecko or our legendary ride of kings. Why don't the legislation at the Ministry of Culture know about this is a mystery. Uncultural, no doubt. I will quote experts from the Czech Chamber of Architects: "Instead of defining values and rational and effective way of protecting them, the bill is a very comprehensive and inconspicuous standard focusing on detailed descriptions of partial activities and comprehensive regulation of certain professions. Architectural works, architects and results of his work, designing are not sufficiently formulated in the draft law. There is no sensitive interpretation of monuments in connection with the irrepressible development of civilization and culture. The draft law focuses only on the maintenance and preservation of conservation of conservational objects and ignores the fact that immovable cultural monuments are used by people and in this respect demands for real functionality are placed on them." End of quote of experts from the Czech Chamber of Architects. The professional public in the proposed law also lacks the protection of musical monuments, and the restoration of cultural monuments in the public procurement regime is in direct conflict with what the Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund declares. In tenders, two criteria are normally applied: the lowest price with a percentage expression of approximately 80 per cent and the shortest implementation time of 20 per cent, which logically goes against the quality of execution. The judge of quality may not be officials, but experts, and in this respect, for example, restorers in vain demanded the establishment of a restoration chamber that could be such an arbiter. Another very problematic point in the government bill is the amount of fines for administrative offences. The protection of monuments for legal and entrepreneurial natural persons is a maximum of CZK 5 million. It is a good thing that fines for damage to the monument have been raised in the law, but they do not match the same amount of fines for a natural and legal person or for a natural person doing business. In practice, it is known that for a legal person the amount of the fine in several million is not something that would prevent it from being devastated if it is economically advantageous. And as we know, many development projects are in the order of hundreds of millions, so 5 million for a lucrative space is really a negligible item that doesn't deter anyone from destroying the monument. See the recent case of Prague villa fashion designer Blanka Matragi, or much more tragic case of total devastation of the entire monument complex in Kyselka. I think that the amount of fines especially for legal persons should be determined not nominally, but the value of the monument and the damage caused. In other words, the ceiling should preferably be the amount of damage caused. Of course, where the price is endless due to irreplaceability, the possibility of imposing a penalty on the company's assets should be allowed. Those who know the practice know that neither the National Monument Institute nor the Ministry of Culture has ever discouraged the destruction of the monument. And that, too, is a topic that I would like to see completely pregnantly addressed, i.e. significant punishments with a clear obligation of the state body to enforce in the protection of cultural monuments. The current activity of the sightseeing inspection is invisible. In fact, no one here even knows it exists. This should be the other way around, and this inspection should be a sort of like the Supreme Audit Office, which, as we know, controls, and even if it does not fine, or do not do so, at least it knows how to name the bad guys. But it is not only about protecting monuments, but also about making this protection really feasible. And here I don't understand a paragraph that says only a natural person with permission from the Ministry to restore a cultural monument can restore a memory, then just a restorer. What does that mean? For example, that the chapel at my friend in Brno near Svitav, which is a cultural monument, can no longer be repaired by the local bricklayer, but must the restorer from Prague arrive? Or does the mason for some solid money make a formal paper that entitles him to the masonry work on the monument? I understand that there must be expert supervision over the repair. On the other hand, it must not make repairs expensive and difficult so that even the simplest owner of the protected monument can't handle it in normal cases. Yes, the fact is that today the owners of monuments can destroy them with impunity. On the other hand, it is almost impossible for many in practice to achieve the aid to save monuments, because the honest majority is terrified that it should possess a cultural monument. Both are wrong. This law certainly does not simplify the situation. In order to protect monuments effectively, the new law should also ensure the following: for protected cities, the obligation to process regulatory plans based on qualified analysis of their spatial composition; for registered monuments, renew the obligation of constructional historical exploration; regulations offering effective protection against corruption by directing development projects; protected territories, such as cities, historical cores, protected zones in terms of conservation to manage as a whole; restoring the status of Prague's conservation reserve at the borders originally established; to re-establish the boundaries of the protection zones of the urban territories of individual dominants. The educational experience with the construction in Prague in Pankrác, which weakened the dominant position of Prague Castle in the relief of the Prague basin and endangered the registration of the Prague conservation reserve in the register of international cultural heritage. If the government coalition of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement intends to adopt the law, please at least correct the biggest two errors, first of all add that the cultural monuments are also intangible works and monuments, and secondly cancel the ceiling for fines on legal persons. These are things that can not bother a decent cultural person and perhaps convene with the opinion of the Minister of Culture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u23	I thank Mr Tomio Okamur and now the last one entered into the debate, Mrs Jana Fischerová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is not much of us here. I am particularly sorry, Minister, that there is no support from your colleagues and colleagues from the government, because I think that this law on the conservation fund is very closely intersecting with tourism, as I see it, because it can get us farther, not only to Europe, but also to the world, when cultural monuments are well cared for. I'll follow up on my previous speakers. I had some comments that have already been made, so I will not repeat them. But now that I have listened at second reading in the general debate to some of my colleagues, I have amendments that will relate to similar things. So I think that if we submit this independently of ourselves and the same paragraphs and amendments in the same sense that there is probably a lot of truth to it. And it's really up to the guarantee committee to adjust this, so they'll pay more attention to it. At the beginning I will say, I come from Vysočina Region and here I listened a lot today about how important the so-called monuments are. intangible cultural. I am very pleased that this is an option, because we are trying very hard to promote a new intangible cultural heritage in the Vysočina Region. This was the last time at the end of last year, when at the regional workplace of traditional folk culture at the Vysočina museum we got this promotion and the historical plague procession in Brtnice was added to the regional list. There is a reference from 1715 when people died there as a result of the plague epidemic, but there is such a force of people who follow this tradition, and every year and preferably every five years, they really make it a big event, so widespread to a wide area that it is very well known, and this is how it was promoted. So I'm very much interrogating myself to define this in this law. I actually have one amendment, I say only, which we have already discussed with the Ministry of Culture, not quite came to the same conclusion, but I will allow myself to justify it here before I join the detailed debate. This comment, as I have read, is in the explanatory memorandum, has already been submitted in the context of the external commentary procedure, as part of the comments made by the regions, but has not been accepted in the end, and I will therefore now explain to you what this concerns. It doesn't mean anything more than to keep paragraph 19 and 24 factually as is the case so far. This means that my amendment aims to maintain the practice of the mandatory expression of the competent municipal authority of municipalities with extended scope and the competent regional authority in proceedings for a declaration of cultural heritage, that is, paragraph 19, and in proceedings for the abolition of a declaration of cultural heritage, paragraph 24. It's very simple, I'll pass it on in writing. This is also due to the fact that there is already settled caselaw, e.g. Judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court of 31. 10. 2013 or judgment of the Municipal Court in Prague of 18. 6. 2009, where the opinion of the municipal authority is extended and the regional authority issued under section 154 of the 2004 Administrative Code. The present practice obliges the Ministry to obtain these mandatory opinions without restricting it to obtain other documents from professional, scientific, artistic organisations, etc., if it finds them necessary for the proper determination of the facts. Furthermore, that caselaw states, inter alia, that the mandatory observations provided are undoubtedly intended to ensure the most comprehensive view of the case under consideration from the point of view of the place where it is situated and thus constitute a substantial basis for the decision of the Ministry, without the Ministry being limited in its decision-making practice by such observations. The evaluation of the evidence, I would like to express. The practice thus provides for regional authorities and municipalities with extended competence to contribute to the above-mentioned proceedings of the Ministry with substantial information that is known to them from their administrative activities, local jurisdiction and knowledge of the issues in the territory, thereby significantly reducing a certain degree of subjective assessment, which, when assessing whether a particular matter fulfils the conditions for a declaration or a violation of cultural heritage, the administrative decision of the Ministry of Justice of the nature of the matter always includes. At the same time, it is also important for the municipal authorities of municipalities with extended scope and regional authorities to expand their knowledge of new knowledge relating to these cultural values in the managed territory. They have the opportunity to meet this in person, they know the conditions there, because these are the authorities which subsequently perform the tasks of the competent authorities of the state conservation services for cultural monuments. I think that this experience can be viewed positively, and even from the economics of the administration's performance. I mean, in conclusion, there is no increase in bureaucracy. This is also very important at the moment, because it is essential in what we hear around us that bureaucracy is growing everywhere, so this is not in this case. This is not the case for the municipal authorities of municipalities with extended scope or regional authorities, since the above is required only to leave the practice in the given place and nothing is expanding to them, no competence. So thank you, all of you little present, for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u25	Thank you, Mrs Fischerová. This was the last one entered into the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I ask if there is interest in the general debate on the final words - Minister? It's not like that. Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. Mrs Lorencová withdrew her proposal from the first part of the general debate under Paragraph 93 (2) of the EC Treaty. 2, therefore, we have nothing to vote on at the moment, and we can therefore continue with the debate in detail. The first in a detailed debate is Mr.František Adámek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u26	Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, I will be very brief. I would just like to sign up for the amendments under these Houses: 5806, 5848, 5788, 5789, 5790, 5848, 5847, 6052, 6053, 6054, 6055, 6056, 6057, 6058, 6059, 6060, 6061, 6062, 6063, and that is it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u27	I thank Mr František Adámek and a Member Petr Kořenek is added to the detailed debate. Mrs Chalánková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be very brief. I sign up for Amendment 5801 concerning the Castle of Štiřín. And then I would like to sign up for Amendment 6035, which relates to maintaining continuity with the Detached Workplace of the Archaeological Institute, which is set up in the premises of the Prague Castle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u29	I thank Mr Petr Kořenka. Now, then, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, Mrs Nina Nováková will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u30	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to apply to my amendments, which I have already justified in the general debate and which you have in the system under these figures. It's: 5791, 5792, 5793, 5794, 5795, 5796, 5897, that's the last one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u31	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Now, Mrs Nina Nováková. Mrs Jana Lorencová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for the amendment, which is in the system under 5782, another 5783, another 5784 and the last 5785. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u33	Thank you, Mrs Nina Nováková. Now, Mrs Jana Lorencová, who I do not see, is failing her application at the end of the detailed debate. And Mrs Věra Kovářová, who is now next. A colleague, Jiří Junek, will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u34	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is conducted in the system under number 6167. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. Mr Jiří Junek now. Mr. Herbert Pavera will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u36	Thank you. I am signing up for my amendments, which are being conducted in the system as House Document No 6064 and House Document No 6065. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u37	I thank Mr Jiří Junek, my colleague Pavera, for a little patience. Until the end of today's day, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Have a nice afternoon. I am merely signing up for my amendment, which is listed in the system under number 5762. And since I introduced him quite a while ago, I'm just reminding you that it's about archeological excavations and all the work around the finds being paid for by the state and not by the landowner. I think it's very logical, the costs are approximately CZK 350 million a year. I would ask you to consider supporting this amendment, because I think it will help both municipalities and owners of these properties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u39	I thank Mr Herbert Paver. Mr. Lukáš Pleticha now. I do not see this either, so his application also fails to be detailed at the end of the debate. I will therefore report to other colleagues: Mr Martin Plíšek and Mr Antonín Seďa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear fellow Members, allow me, in a detailed debate, to sign up for the amendments that are listed under number 6049 in the system. I have justified the amendments in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u41	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek. Now, Mr Antonín Seďa, Mr František Laudát will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am signing up for House document 6070, where my written amendments are presented, and this House document also contains a brief justification.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u43	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. I now have Mr. František Laudát's application. He's not present either, so I'll make a note of him. And now the second application from Mr Lukáš Pleticha. It's still true I've got him marked. Mrs Jana Lorencová, with a second application too. He's still not present. Second application by Mrs Chalánková. But she said it all of a sudden in her act, so we can delete it. The same is probably true of Mrs Nováková. And now I have Mrs Věra Kovářová, who also tabled the amendment. And so we have Mrs Jana Fischerová, Mr Lukáš Pleticha will prepare himself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u44	Yes, thank you. I'm applying to the House document under number 5756. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u45	Thank you, Mrs Jana Fischerová. Now, Mr Lukáš Pleticha in his double application. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u46	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my colleagues, I am applying to my amendment under number 6067, which concerns the adjustment of the procedure under which certain proceedings under this law will be governed, and that they will only be of official authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-003-003.u47	I thank Mr Lukáš Pletich. And once again, I will try to bring two registered in a detailed debate, Mrs Jana Lorencová, who is not here, and Mr František Laudát, who is not here either. So, in that case, there is nothing I can do but end the detailed debate if no one is applying for it. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate. I see the work of my colleagues here, but if it isn't, I can't extend it any longer. There's nothing I can do, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. This is not the case; it is not the case with either the Minister or the rapporteur. Since the only procedural proposal submitted in the first part has been withdrawn, we can therefore end the second reading of this bill. The motion to dismiss will, of course, be voted at the beginning of the third reading. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and end this item number 3 of today's meeting day. We will continue with the next draft of today's negotiations and that is the point
