ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u1	241. Government bill amending Act No. 373/2011 Coll., on specific health services, as amended, and some other laws / House print 874/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík and the rapporteur of the Health Guarantee Committee, Mr Pavel Antonín, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 874/2, which was delivered to you on 1 March of this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was then delivered as House Press 874/3. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at this stage, I do not consider it necessary to comment on its content at this stage on the draft law amending the Act on specific health services and certain other laws, since it has already been discussed several times in the House. However, I would like to express my position on the amendments that were made at second reading and which will now be voted on in the third reading. In essence, I support the amendments listed as A1, A2, B3, D2, G1 to G4. Furthermore, I do not recommend amendments under the designation B1, B2, C, D1, E and F. I would first like to comment on Mr Farský amendment to the Act on the Protection of Public Health, which provides for an adjustment to the reimbursement of vaccinations. I want to express why I disagree with him. In particular, this is because the proposed amendment to supplement the provisions of § 49 para. 2 The Act on the reimbursement of vaccinations carried out under the individual vaccination plan of natural persons from the state budget is confusing and unnecessary because the concept, or institute, of an individual vaccination plan, which the law does not know, is being dealt with and has no link to other provisions of the law, where the obligation of foreigners within the defined heading is to undergo regular vaccination. I just want to point out that the state budget pays for special and extraordinary vaccinations. Amendment B1 also proposes to add to the Public Health Protection Act an adjustment of the State's liability for injury not negligible, caused by regular vaccination, special emergency vaccination and vaccination covered by public health insurance, nor can this addition be agreed because I believe that vaccination cannot be regarded as an maladministration, I would like to emphasise this. However, I would like to say that my negative position on Mr Farský's amendment is not an unwill to address the issue. It signals that the Ministry is preparing the relevant bill, and given that it would no longer be in the legislative process, the Ministry is ready to present it immediately after the election. [[11.10 hours]] I would also like to comment on one of the frequently quoted things, and that is Amendment B2, which is an amendment to the Public Health Act so as to simplify the demonstration of children's medical fitness to attend a school in nature or a recovery action. I cannot support the proposed amendment because maintaining the existing text of the provision is necessary in order to ensure the protection of the health and lives of children participating in schools in nature, in my opinion. The purpose of the provisions of Section 9 is to provide children with a safe environment away from home and persons holding recovery events, and, after all, to schools, objective and reality with adequate information on the immediate health of the child in the event of a situation threatening their health and lives. In this context, I remind you, and at the beginning I said that I support Amendment B3 extending the validity of a medical opinion on the medical fitness of a child in a school or a recovery action. I must also say that I do not support, as a whole, the various parts of Mrs Chalánková's amendment and Mr Hovorka's amendment, which are marked under letters C and F, which aim to remove some of the facts envisaged as risk factors for the implementation of assisted reproduction. These amendments describe a certain part of illogical procedures and are based on incorrect premises and at the same time deny the basic biological conditions to perform successful extracorporeal fertilization. In addition, Mr Hovorka's amendment regulates the facts that are already being dealt with in the legal order. I would like to stress that the adaptation of assisted reproduction is a very sensitive area, and therefore, I believe that possible changes in this area should be prevented not only by professional but also by a society-wide discussion that would consider all the relevant and ethical implications of these modifications. I would also like to point out that the Ministry of the Interior questioned the regulation of the law on matrices and the Ministry of Justice took a negative position on Amendment F, especially for both factual and legal non-acceptability of the draft amendment to the Civil Code. There is then an amendment, which is under the letter E by Mr Adámek, which is to establish the possibility of artificial insemination to a woman who is not married at the time of her infertility treatment and who intends to undergo this treatment without a partner using sperm from an anonymous donor. I want to say that I do not support this regulation, and in particular because, just as earlier, Amendments C and F are interfering in a very sensitive area of specific health services, and I really believe that the adoption of a similar proposal will have to be preceded by a very broad social debate. I would very much advocate that such adjustments go through a classicly large legislative process, because I do not think that the form of a parliamentary amendment is happy for this type of proposal. After all, even from the point of view of the legislative proposal, there are certain shortcomings. In relation to this, I would really like to point out that the methods of assisted reproduction are procedures based on the infertility of a woman or a barren couple, and they should always concern barren couples, because we believe that the state should prefer the possibility of full families. In this case, I would like to thank you for your attention and I am ready to respond to other suggestions in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u3	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a debate in which Mr Leoš Heger joined first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u4	Thank you for the floor. Lady Members, I will not comment on the bill as a whole, he is quite complicated and is mostly legislatively formal, I would say, correcting terminology within the new Civil Code etc. I would only allow myself to stop at Mrs Pecková's D2 amendment, which has an interesting history, and maybe the history will be interesting if it gets caught because it is likely to return to it. The proposed law in its original version, as submitted and passed by the government, says that in the case of reproductive intervention, one procedure can be removed from the compulsory gesture of the reproductive centre and left to the gesture of the practical gynecologist to whom the woman goes. This involves an intervention that means that the sperm is inserted or injected by a gynecologist into the sexual organs of a woman, or very simple procedure that is neither complex nor technically, nor requires complex things such as ovarian stimulation, and can be performed if fertile and fertile days are observed, e.g. Temperature curve. Then Mrs Pecková's amendment came up, which stated quite rightly that this proposal by the Ministry could be in conflict with the Act on Tissues and Cells, because it is a matter that is very special, the manipulation of germ cells, and that there might be a contradiction. The motion was filed, and the Ministry withdrew from its original request to simplify the procedure and agrees with the proposal. He's probably gonna pass, but I just want to report here that I've consulted with the tissue and cell law experts that we've recently amended, and from their point of view, the state of the border, and in a number of countries, this performance of sperm into the reproductive organs of a woman is not considered work in the gesture of the tissue and cell law. Depends on the interpretation. Because the ministerial proposal was designed to make things easier and cheaper so that the woman didn't have to deal with a problem that could be dealt with by a practical gynecologist, as it was before, so she wouldn't have to go to the reproductive center, so in a way she's making the procedure cheaper and pushing it back pretty risky. But in order to be absolutely sure that we do not get into this contradiction with the Act on Tissues and Cells, if such a proposal is ever submitted again, it would be good to present a small amendment to the Act on Tissues and Cells in parallel with the Act on Specific Services. I do not know if I have said this in sufficient clarity, but that is all I wanted to add to this law in the context of Amendment D2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u5	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. Another duly signed is Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Dear Minister, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak for as long as I did at second reading when I applied my amendment under letter C. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that some maybe journalists, or some papers, such as the Health Newspaper, which quoted my comment on this amendment of mine, where he expressed himself for example. Mr Cikrt, I have read the whole article, so some may not have fully understood what I was really looking for with this amendment. The public was also mistakenly informed that Members opposed artificial insemination. Absolutely not, because this proposal, which concerns the so-called regulation of anonymous donation, does not address and does not deny the possibility of using artificial insemination, for example, in the couples mentioned above. I was very happy to hear the Minister's words, and I will get to that, where I will be caught and supported by the Minister. [[11.20 hours]] It was said here that my amendment contained a number of illogical legislative procedures, however, which were not specifically mentioned. I think we should know exactly which procedures were and are illogical, and we could fix this situation. It was said here that this proposal should be subject to a longer discussion. This bill on the regulation of anonymous donation is in the Chamber of Deputies, which I am here for seven years. He has been in the legislative process for seven years. We handed it over to another group of Members in the last parliamentary term, and just after the beginning of this new parliamentary term, we submitted it across the political spectrum as a parliamentary bill, which is here under the number 371, and it was actually applied and converted into an amendment to this open press on specific health services. So the possibility of discussing this proposal was here. The possibility has been put here, the possibility of the entire Chamber of Deputies having been put here to deal in detail with this proposal. As for the Government's position, which I have already commented here at the second reading of this law, I will not read it all today, nor did I take it anymore, because it is available in the Steno Protocol and I believe that I have explained the point after the point on which I disagree with the various opinions of the Government's refusal. I would like to point out that the negative position is certainly formulated primarily by doctors working in these clinics. I get it. And professional debate can also take place at a different level. I also held a seminar where you all had an invitation and you could attend this seminar and, of course, participate in the debate. Doctors at this clinic must perform, among other things, selection of donors according to testing for certain diseases or also some possibility of genetic diseases, which will certainly affect only part of these possible genetically encoded diseases, also selection of embryos. I would like to point out that it might not be entirely from the point of view to carry out a comprehensive and in-depth analysis of the success of this whole area of artificial insemination, as well as the quality results of this whole process, which we are not opposed to, but we have brought only a parliamentary bill that regulates a particular area, and it is of great importance. This proposal essentially follows legislative paths and procedures that occur in a number of other countries that we consider to be civilised. Our proposal is directly inspired by a proposal that is used in Switzerland, a Swiss model that allows children to discover their biological parents at the age of adulthood. It was argued that there was no interest in donation in the countries where this regulation of anonymous donation took place. For one thing, this is not entirely true, for example, in Australia, which has said this, where anonymous donation is no longer completely prohibited, this phenomenon has not occurred. However, I would like to point out that if these donors fall, it is necessary to realise that applicants for artificial insemination then seek out countries where such regulated donation is not, and that is why the Czech Republic is actually getting into the situation of developing countries, such as Bangladesh, India, where rich people from rich countries, for example, use this donation, but also, for example, use replacement uterus. And that doesn't solve my proposal. I'd like to point that out. It is not only about sperm donation, but first of all I would like to point out that it is very risky to give eggs, where girls in good faith devote their eggs and themselves endanger their own health and their own fertility and, on the other hand, may eventually be affected by their own infertility, for example. And the financial reward, which is called compensation for damage in donation, is very inadequate to this entire risky process. I would also like to point out that this is not so much a health law. It's not a health law, it's a law of ethics. The entire Act on Specific Health Services is very ethically sensitive, as has been communicated. It is above all human rights law, because, as I have already mentioned, the child has the right to get to know his parents. In many countries, they approach this in different ways, let it be an addition to the registers, let it be, for example, a registry of donors, which will then be made available to the child at a certain age, it is different from the state, at the age of 14 to 18. The Supreme Court in Germany has already admitted in its caselaw that a child who has established that he is conceived in this way has the right to meet his biological parents. This proposal does not give the child any claim to, for example, the material goods of the donor. No way. I understand that the fact that I am interested in the human rights of these children may not be so popular politically, because we are often in a situation that, above all, as has been suggested here, there is also an amendment by Mr Adámek, who should therefore be able to fertilize even lonely women who live without a partner. I am delighted that the Minister rejects this amendment and only wants to address the situation of the couples, which I will get to do, because if such a proposal were accepted, I am afraid that we would move to another situation which would bring an uncomfortable position for a child so conceived, on the other hand, we would agree gradually that a person has the right to a child, people have the right to children. It is very unpleasant that I have to say this, but that is not how the right to a child can be formulated. The right to a child is not one of the fundamental human rights, in all the sensitivity and unfortunate situation of those couples who cannot wait for their child. I'm very clear on that. On the contrary, a child entitled to his parents is indeed one of the fundamental human rights. I would like to point out that our proposal is not exceptional, that it actually copies legislation from civilised countries, which is why I wanted to ask Members and Members to at least think about this proposal. Otherwise, I have some data from the Parliamentary Institute. At present, 41 centres of assisted reproduction are already working in the Czech Republic compared to 27 centres in 2007. In 2013, the number of donated eggs reached 54 517, of which 34,5 percent of the fertilized women accounted for foreigners compared to 14.5 percent of the foreign countries in 2017. So we are really becoming a target country for other countries that have already treated their legislation in some way. 24,8% of cycles were performed by women aged 40 years and over, compared to 10,7% in 2007. Here I would like to point out that problems with infertility often also arise from the fact that women delay maternity for various reasons to the age when fertilization by natural means is no longer so common and possible. We have 58 674 embryos artificially produced and 34 342 embryos frozen. So these are really very sensitive questions. [[11.30 hours]] Interestingly, Mr Cikrt's wording was that I was taking him to the mouth here at the plenary, which he wrote in the Health Sheets or some such newspapers, very detailed my whole argument and my speech in the Chamber of Deputies at the second reading of this law, which pleased me, and he quoted there too, or he said there that he pointed out that Mrs Chalánková's amendment was very dangerous. That's how I got my attention. And it is very dangerous because society is beginning to turn to conservative values, and the danger is that this proposal could be adopted. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u7	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Another duly registered member is Mr Jan Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to ask that, in the context of legislative technical amendments, the vote be voted that my amendments will be amendments to Amendment A1 because they were originally submitted to the original press and that if they were voted, they would become unvoted after going through A1 but do not exclude each other. So here I would like to ask that they become amendments ideally B1, B2, B3 to the A1 amendment. Please berte this as a proposal for legislative technical amendments that should be put to the vote at the beginning. Only briefly on individual amendments. The first concerns responsibility for the adverse effects of vaccination. I wouldn't serve it if the Department of Health fulfilled its promises. Since 2015, I have been coming to the task force for problematic vaccinations at the Ministry of Health and the entries are public, so you can see that on 2 June 2015, a representative of the Ministry of Health has promised to present the issue of state responsibility, legislative solution, by September 2015. Nothing happened. On 23 June 2016, a representative of the Ministry of Health promised to present a solution to the State's responsibility for the adverse effects of vaccination on this working group by the end of November 2016. Again nothing happened, although I asked, wrote, intersected with other fellow Members of the Chamber of Deputies, so I had no choice but to propose a solution that was discussed here two years ago and where the objective responsibility of the State for the adverse effects of vaccination is introduced. It's basically overturning the burden of proof. It is not up to parents or legal representatives or directly harmed to prove a causal link, but it is up to the pediatrician to diagnose and then cope with this diagnosis by the Ministry of Health. Of course, the cases where they are already in some way in different intensity, of course, are caught by the side effects, the cases last year alone were more than 1,100. Certainly not all of them would be those for whom compensation would come, but at the same time it is not possible to just wave their hands over them and say: once again we did not make it. But unfortunately, I'm hearing from the Ministry of Health repeatedly about how it can't be done, what's wrong with the proposals, but I think we expect the Ministry of Health and Government to say how they're going to solve the problems, not that they're going to say they can't solve it. That's why I had no choice but to file the motion. And I still think that this proposal, even after the discussions that have been held, is valid, functional, and I'm asking for his support. The next amendment is B2, which is, say, more stringent in that those who send their children to camps and various health care stays would not have to go to doctors for medical certificates, but those who are not followed are not sick in any way, such confirmation that they are able to survive the camp would be issued by their legal representatives, parents, where organizers of these camps or health care stays would have agreed and parents would not have required the entry of the doctor. I am here in the role of both the organizer of the camp and the parents, and as I discussed with the Czech Council of Children and Youth and others, this would make it a lot easier. The third amendment, and here I thank the health committee for expressing his positive opinion on this proposal, because I think that even if it had passed from these three, even if I would have liked to have managed to enforce all three, so even if only this one had passed, it would mean that some 200 thousand parents, 200 thousand children a year would not have to visit the practical doctor for this certificate, because it will be valid for two years if the health condition does not change. It saves the administration, saves the vacation, saves the expenses, and I think it's still worth it. So I thank the Health Committee that, at least in this amendment, he expressed himself positively. I would like to ask for consideration of the responsibility, because that is the debt that this state has to its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u9	Thank you, Mr Farský. Another duly registered member is Mr František Adámek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u10	Hello, colleagues, Mr Vice-President, Dear Government. Allow me to read the legislative technical amendment to my second reading amendment within the meaning of Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 June 2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Point 5A of my amendment reads: In § 8 para. The words "unmarried woman or unmarried couple" shall be inserted after the words "not married woman" and the words "unmarried woman" shall be inserted after the words "not married woman" and the words "not married woman" shall be inserted after the words "not married woman." It is a legislative technical regulation which updates the text of point 5A in such a way that it corresponds to the current version of Section 8 para. 1 of the Health Services Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u11	I thank Mr Adámek. So far, the last duly signed up for the debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka, then the rapporteur, with permission. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, the Minister said here why he does not support Mrs Chalánková's amendments and why he does not support the amendment under letter F, which I tabled. He said it would cause problems in the center of assisted reproduction etc. I would ask the Minister to explain how it is effectively prevented today that children conceived from assisted reproduction cannot reach an age when they can grow up to become parents, how effectively they are prevented from meeting children from assisted reproduction as biological siblings in childbearing. The amendments tabled by Mrs Chalánková and similar ones which I have tabled have limited this possibility in some way and, where appropriate, seek to reduce the risk of biologically related relatives, namely siblings, meeting. I think that this is a matter that is quite fundamental, because, as you know, children conceived from a relative relationship may exhibit various defects and there may be a big problem if this happens. In my opinion, current legislation does not address this at all. That there was no more debate on this, of course, because the Ministry has not yet submitted such a proposal, and that is why the amendments have been tabled. I am trying to comment on some parts of my amendment. For example, Amendment F1 states that the germ cells of one anonymous donor can be used to produce a maximum of four human embryos. We're just correcting the F2 amendment to keep the age for artificial insemination to the original 45, because the Ministry is proposing an increase to 49. [[11.40 hours]] Furthermore, we say that artificial insemination cannot be performed if there is a relationship between a woman to be artificially fertilized, hereinafter referred to as the recipient of an anonymous donor, that precludes marriage. It is also said in Amendment F2, that she cannot donate the donor who donated the eggs over the last 12 months, again. It is a certain and let's say protection of the donor's health, because there are more than 1,800 egg donors in our country, and if they can actually donate eggs in a relatively short period of time, it is of course a risk to their health. Another restriction is in design F4, where an anonymous donor can only donate germ cells to one provider. That's what I think is important, because today, donors can actually travel across the Republic between different centres, it was said that there are over 40 of them, and they can donate their sperm or eggs everywhere. Thus, the risk of encountering biological siblings in childbearing may be increased. [[Noise in the left side of the hall.]] The most important proposal under F5 concerns a substitute - suffocation - motherhood. It is a matter which is not yet enshrined in our legal order, it is not even in the Civil Code, but it does not mean that a similar process does not take place in our country. Indeed, the possibility of another surrogate mother carrying an embryo of biological parents with the intention of getting pregnant in this way is realized in our home. And then, in fact, the courts deal with who the mother is and whose child is. Many cases are known that a surrogate brings a child to someone else, and then she is psychologically dependent on the fact that she carried the child in her body and does not want to give up the child. And courts are often not easy. So in my amendment, I say that it is not possible to surrogacy, surrogate motherhood, except for close kinship between a biological mother and a surogate mother. There may be a case where, for example, a daughter is ill and cannot have children and a mother who is already after a reproductive cycle can pass on her healthy uterus to her daughter, for example. So that is an explanation of my amendment. I think it is good to support this amendment. I am also trying to reflect amendments in the Civil Code, on the grounds that this matter should be dealt with both in the Act on specific health services and in the Civil Code. I would like to briefly touch on Mr Adámek's amendment. If this amendment, when it is possible to impregnate mothers, actually single-parent mothers, actually single-mothers, I think that this is a completely first-hand sense of the family. It is, as the Minister said, contrary to the traditional family model. And we cannot support this amendment because we support a traditional family. It's just creating problems for future generations. If this amendment were adopted in this way, we would not be able to support the specific health services law as a club. I would also briefly mention Mr Havíř's amendment. It is actually an amendment, in its part G2.1 to G2.3, to allow the transplantation of the non-pair organ, including the transplantation of the uterus. As much as we understand that this uterine transplant can help women who are ill or who have lost it, unless there is a restriction in this proposal that it is, for example, the possibility of giving in a relative relationship, there is a risk that women who are in a distressing financial situation might decide to donate the uterus to someone else for money. Unfortunately, cases like this happen. That is why we think that this amendment without restrictions, plus with the condition that this transplant will be possible when the Department of Health recognises the transplantation of the uterus as a standard method, so we think that this is an amendment that goes to the future, and as such we see it very problematic, although its intention to help women who are ill and cannot have children has a reasonable basis. Now I would like to mention one more thing. The Minister said that my amendment or Mrs Chalánková's amendment would significantly complicate the work of reproductive centres. It would be good for people to know that financial compensation for the donation of eggs, for example, is around CZK 18,000. This is not possible in some countries, and it is only an altruistic relationship to the fact that the woman wants to help someone who simply can't get pregnant. Unfortunately, this is becoming a financial business in our country, and many girls are actually donating eggs, there are up to 1,800 donors from all over the Czech Republic in that register, and also the amount of egg donation is huge. Girls, women don't realize that they're taking a very big risk that they won't be able to get pregnant in the future. In the advertising of reproductive centres, it is often said that they help sick women. This is only partly true, because only 770 Czech women accepted these eggs from these donated eggs in 2014. In fact, it is a business for foreigners from the European Union, in the number of 4,000 accepted these eggs in 2014, and foreign countries outside the European Union in the number of 870. These women often don't know that. And often they also do not know that for what they will receive the financial compensation in the amount of CZK 18,000, so often for the cycle of donation, the insertion of the egg will pay the foreigners CZK 100,000. So a huge business in the range of around CZK 4 billion. In the Czech Republic, such young girls are not helping sick women, or usually helping sick women, but risking their health for money in order to largely accommodate elderly strangers longing for a child, often in the age of grandmothers. This is what I thought was important to say so that you would have information before the third reading of this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u13	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u14	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will not be too long, I will try to shorten it. You know, I'm a little less than more involved in health matters, but I think there have been some ethical issues that are good to speak to, because some of them have legal connotations. Otherwise, I don't get involved in medical matters. The first point I'd like to make is what Mr. Hovorka said. The question of the arrogant, surrogate mothers was, and I said it at the committee meeting, repeatedly addressed when the new Civil Code was adopted. We were just discussing the issue of whether the old principle of Roman law is sustainable, that the mother of the child is the woman who gave birth to it, and we agreed that this is the best solution for the future, that there is no other way to go. Because when we say that this is really a question of inserted genetic information, we come not only to the question of surrogate mothers, but also to the possibility of surrogate motherhood into unsolvable complications, because there may also be other genetic material in this direction. And it's a big problem. So I suggest you don't open it at all. [[11.50 hours]] I also understand that, although I am sorry that this House is not likely to be approved either by Mrs Chalánková's proposal or by Mr Hovorka's proposal, which addresses the problem that we have raised here at the very beginning of the parliamentary term, and that is almost zero control over reproductive centres, virtually. almost unlimited opportunity to breed these babies from one donor, not keeping any information. I think that's something we're going to have to sort out in the future. I think it's not just a question of restraint, or it's not just a question of ethical, but it's becoming a question of health even more and more. Because we know more and more that we need to know who our parents are. That this is extremely important from a medical point of view. Every time you come to the hospital for an examination, they ask you, "Are your parents healthy?" Were they operated on anything? Are they in trouble? In these cases, when the one, probably in most cases one of the parents, the father just isn't known and it's impossible to even know him, I think there will be longer-term problems. I know that, of course, it can't come from this, and the proposals are all heading this way, there can't be any legal consequences. But that the possibility of finding out if, when I was conceived from assisted reproduction, if my parent hadn't suffered a genetic disorder for life, something similar, should be modified in the future. Although I do know that at this point, there is no will. But the last proposal I wanted to comment on is Mr Adámek's proposal, that is the attempt to break down fertility treatment and say that it is not only for barren couples, but for barren single women. I know the Minister of Health will only take a negative position on this because the committee voted positive on my surprise, so I think I want to draw the House's attention to the problems and complications that arise with this. First of all, it's assumed in this whole story that it's fertility treatment, which is hard to tell if it's still fertility treatment or in what cases for an unmarried, non-living woman. If there's gonna be any treatment before, or if we start pretending that it's actually a possibility of free insemination. That's the first comment I have on a proposal that's deeply unclear in this regard, because these couples are really dealing with fertility treatments. It's said that it's possible for it to be single, but then it's not clear if it's fertility treatment, or if it's just replacement insemination. Spare insemination, or it's hard to call it. That's the first thing. The second thing I think is a little funny about this proposal by Mr Adámek himself, in his reasoning, which says that unmarried women can come single, whereas married women must have their husband's consent to assisted reproduction. Then we are really getting into a completely absurd situation that marriage is actually becoming an obstacle in a number of cases and damage where I have fewer rights than if I did not live in a marriage. Even by law. That sounds really wrong to me. And if, in the last few days, there has been a big discussion Čunek about the situation of single mothers and whether they are to find someone or not, unfortunately, Mr. Adámek's proposal is precisely a proposal that only this way. I wonder who's gonna pay for it. Or if we say in such cases, "Dear lady, there is no supporter and you must be prepared to support the child yourself." Or if, as happens in many other cases, he comes back to the state and says, "Dear State, I've got a baby, but unfortunately I don't have a daddy or a partner or anything like that with him, so I want you to pay for it. I think it simply opens up a number of very complicated issues in terms of both legal and ethical terms, whether this is even legal. And I highly recommend that we here support the opinion of the Ministry of Health and not approve the proposal of my colleague Adámek. Because I would see it as very unfortunate to approve such things in the third reading of the amendment, and just before the end of the parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u15	I thank Mr Benda. With factual remarks now Mr František Adámek, after whom Mr Jiří Koskuba. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I would take the liberty of reacting through you, Mr Vice-President. I sometimes feel that when some people say something about it, and after all, even if the amendment was not approved, at least nothing else would stir up the debate on the subject. Because I don't think it's a single thing, that it's a problem to a certain extent. However, I regret that my colleague Benda - once again through you, Mr Vice-President - who is always expressing himself very accurately and accurately, and we do not know each other for a week and I respect him very much for these things, either I feel that he has not read it, which I do not expect, or read it badly. For example, a few comments on what has been said. A question thrown into the wind - how can it be known that she was being treated? And I certainly wouldn't use the word insemination in this context, by the way, which you used. But there's just some medical records. And whether anyone is treating for any diagnosis or not, after all, so please don't ask such questions, which are basically misleading, and let me say that even demagogical. As for some minor rights married - unmarried women, which you suggested here with a light laugh, I must refuse. I mean, it's because the marriage institute connects them, these people have said something about it, so the partner, the husband, it means, it has a higher weight, it has the right to say whether or not it is. So that's why it's there! But those are obvious things. And I felt - after all, probably if I hadn't given this proposal - yes, the last sentence, if you don't mind, Mr Vice-President. [[Time!]] I feel like if I didn't put this proposal here, there's nothing to talk about in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u17	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Jiří Koskuba, Mr Gabal, followed by Mr Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been silent about this law for a long time, but the words of a colleague, whom I respect very much, among other things, Marek Benda, have provoked me to appear here as a doctor. Through the Vice-President: milý Marek, they are single women and they are single women. I also belong to people who are strictly responsible for the sanctity of the marriage bond. But as a doctor, I see more and more young women who are just unlucky to have a disease that simply prevents them from finding a partner because of the morals of contemporary society. Even these girls are single. These girls are capable of giving birth to a child. This means, if we are talking about this group as a whole here, we think that in some words we are insulting those of them who can perform the role of a mother, they would like to do it, but for purely health reasons that are not related to fertility, they simply cannot. And I don't think these young ladies deserve to be thrown into a bag with something else. And with these women, my colleague Adámek's proposal is quite humane, medically and morally understandable. It's just an explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u19	I thank my colleague Koskuba. Mr Ivan Gabal, Mr Marek Benda will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u20	Hello. Thank you. It is incredible, Mr President, I agree with my colleague Koskuba. As a sociologist, not in that medical position, I have to urge you, through Marek Benda alone, to look at demographic data on fertility and birth rate development and long-term outlook. I am a strong supporter of single mothers and women's rights without a partner to seek this path. At the high average age of the birth of the first child, this is often the only way out for those women who have not found a partner is through life's optimism or perspective. And it needs to be seen as reality. We're just in some real company. We want this company to be demographically forward. So we can't block single mothers and single women who can't find a partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u21	I thank Mr Gabal. Mr Marek Benda, his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u22	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that this debate has stirred up. But that is what my comment to Mr Adámek was about. You are all defending this - now the last representative of the People's Party, Mr Gabal - you are all defending it as a free right to artificial insemination for a single woman. But at the same time, I say the bill regulates it as part of the fertility treatment. So either say "we want the free right of artificial insemination for a single woman" or it's part of the fertility treatment, but then you promise something you don't give with the proposal at all. Of course, I'm against allowing free artificial insemination. That is what I think is wrong and that it is mostly contrary to everything that we have ever accepted in relation to children in the world. A child has a right to both parents. All the international contracts we signed are binding on us to do this, and we're not supposed to break them just because sociologists think it's better if a woman lives alone with one child. Just don't make promises. It's part of the fertility treatment. And I asked Mr Adámek your question, by means of you, whether this is still the case. Because I think if we write it in this bill, it must be part of the fertility treatment, and don't promise it's artificial insemination for single women.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u23	Mr František Adámek and his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u24	Hello again. After all, I have been called upon, so again through you, Mr Vice-President. I stand by the amendment as it was written. So let's not move it anywhere else. We're talking about fertility treatment, nothing else. The problem is that the debate, but quite logically, is moving it somewhere else, and everyone is moving it where they want it, what worldview it has, how it feels, etc. But we're just talking about fertility treatment. It's just a specific answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u25	Thank you. It is Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's turn to sign up properly for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As is customary here, I'll start by saying that I didn't want to talk about it, but the discussion forced me to do it. I must say that I am responding to a number of sentences that have been said here that I agree with many, what my colleague Benda says, what my colleague Adámek says. In addition to the legal aspects, I would try to bring in a different view of ethical aspects than the one that sounds here. I've lived my whole life actually oncology, and we've moved on to a completely different phase. We are able to save women with ovarian or uterine cancer, but in many cases at the expense of destroying their reproductive function. These are situations where women refuse treatment simply because the power of the wish for motherhood is so great that they are only willing to die when they give birth from the diseased organs. And this thing is very serious, it has many aspects. It's a question of surrogacy motherhood. This is a problem that exists all over the world today and has a problem, of course, that Roman law implies that the mother is the one who gave birth. In the United States, where surrogacy's motherhood is the furthest, in fact, every state has its own law. There's no American law there. So there, when there's a deal with a woman, a baby-bearer and a donor, they do it in the state that makes it possible. But, of course, nothing will prevent the woman who gave birth from moving to the next state, where the law is reversed and says it's her child. I'm convinced that this is a thing - and now I'm not a lawyer, like Marek Benda says he doesn't like to enter medical matters, so I don't like to get into legal matters - but that's a thing that is legally a praeter legume. She's not para legem, she's not next to the law. She's not contra legem, there's nothing against the law. She's before the law. We just got somewhere farther away than those Roman lawyers have ever seen. We've gone somewhere even our lawyers can't see. And we're actually dealing with it with praeter legem. Because I can tell from this place that surrogate mothers in patients who have lost their uterus due to cancer exist in our country. Of course, they exist in direct kinship, or even mothers that are unrelated. Oocyte donation, egg donation. It's a problem, too. But I would just, with your permission, tell my colleague Hovorka that the donation of eggs in the largest amount is based on the eggs produced in the treatment of sterility. There is hyperstimulation done and the goal is to get as many eggs as possible, because it is the only thing that guarantees that it will somehow succeed in the future. These women have two children or three from the eggs they've implemented, and they've got eight more frozen eggs. And indeed, in 90 percent of the cases, before these germs were thawed, destroyed, they would agree to be used as donors. So no one, no woman, it doesn't hurt. That's the thing that exists that's here. It's a matter of uterine transplantation. Sure, it's a thing that in ethical or legal terms is a little different from kidney transplants. But I ask myself, what difference does it make if I decide to donate a kidney to someone who isn't related to me because I think I can stand one kidney, or if I decide that a uterus I don't need or I don't want to give birth to someone? What difference does it make? Then we would have to cancel the entire transplant program if we entered into this process with this philosophy. I just want to say that I would very much like the House not to deal with these things in this form. It's a thing that's medically incredibly complicated, which goes up very medically. It's complicated ethically, morally, and legally, it's the least important thing. Because I'm saying again, all these things lie preater legumes. There's nothing there that's a criminal offence. It all works, it's for the benefit of the thing. And I think that if we wanted to adopt something into the law, there should be a really big discussion before that. And I'm afraid from the experience that I know from all over the world that we're not going to get a lot of results anyway and that either we're going to move towards what's moved here, that we said Roman law, period, or we're going to say - it's praeter legem. It's before the law. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, It's just a thing that it is. And if it's a praeter legume for ten or twenty years, it becomes law in understanding Anglo-Saxon law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u27	I thank Mr Svoboda. A factual point, Mr Marek Benda, followed by Mr Ivan Gabal, with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u28	I am, therefore, really brief on Mr Adámek, but because I feel that we are all really confusing here. The reasoning you have put forward for the proposal, or which you have tabled through the President, says: It is now possible to submit an application for artificial insemination to an unmarried woman alone without the need for the consent of a man. The current adjustment appeared to be insufficient as it did not reflect the needs of the company and in practice it was circumventing. An unmarried woman chose a risky way of getting pregnant. - That's the reason. If she chose a risky way of getting pregnant, she probably wasn't barren and probably wasn't treated for infertility. You promise something that doesn't suit the proposal. It will only be about the treatment of infertility - and this is also about Mr Koskuba's speech - it will be about the treatment of infertility, not the free option for unmarried women to walk for artificial insemination, because it is part of the treatment of infertility. And you say it's different.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u29	Thank you. Mr Ivan Gabal and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u30	I'm gonna go ahead with the sociological argument. When we look at the birth dates of single mothers or outside of marriage, the shares are close to 50 percent. What I'm indirectly trying to say is that I'm not cheating that it's a fertility treatment, but that the childlessness of a single 35-year-old woman can de facto be an indirect result of infertility, and it's a question of whether or not I want to prove it. That's my basic consideration, I'm talking about reflection. The demographic development of this country means that in about 50 years we will be less than 7 million and we will have to deal with 3 million immigrations. Think about it. This means maximum support for motherhood, fertility and birth rate is the aim of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u31	Thank you. That was the last one so far. The rapporteur with priority rights. Sorry, then a point of fact. The rapporteur will prefer the lady. Please give a factual point to Mrs Chalánková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u32	I must be quick, the Minister is in a hurry to pass the law. I would just like to point out to the previous speaker, Mr Gabal, that one of the fundamental problems of why the demographic curve and birth rate are falling is, above all, the delay in motherhood until old age, and that does not mean that we will be looking for other ways that may be unethical, not consistent with what is right. It's just a company decision. That's one thing. And the second thing, fertility treatment. If we want to treat the disease - infertility, we should grow to fertility. That means if there are ovarian obstructions, various hormonal disorders, we're treating this. There are other methods, but anonymous donation is not fertility treatment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u33	Thank you. The rapporteur. After that, Mr Ivan Gabal, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u34	Colleagues, colleagues, most of the speeches here begin: I didn't want to talk about it. I've been wanting to talk about this for a very long time because believe me, I'm in a conflict of interest, I'm the head of an ambulance that treats sterility, I just have a thousand arguments, but I understand that I would only complicate the situation. Some time ago, this Act on specific health services was opened to make changes in the regulation of medical care, including occupational services, assessment, recognition of occupational diseases, treatment of castrations, genetic examinations and sterilizations, and to the EU Act on radiation and protective treatment, incorporated into the Act on specific health services. Unfortunately, as soon as you open Pandořin's box of health laws, especially such a law, which is from the confirmation of camps to the transfer of a man to a woman to the treatment of sterility, you will find yourself in this situation, in which we are now in a position to deal with the Act of Artificial Fertilisation, which is extremely interesting for everyone. I beg you, if possible, to keep this law and its details separately and discuss it separately, because once we make amendments here, it will turn out very, very badly. Allow me two more bowls in which the vote of the Health Committee has not been met entirely with the opinion of the Ministry of Health. One thing was whether the treatment of sterility can only be performed by a person who is specially educated in the IVF program, or by a gynecologist. We gradually united in that opinion that a gynecologist could do it. And then the second controversial place was the place about separate mothers. One last thing. Please allow me to ask that, within the framework of legislative technical changes, point G2 should be voted as an amendment to the A2 and not to the whole law, because the doctor, Professor Vyzula, has made an amendment to the transplant law as a whole, and the original transplant law, which concerns exactly the transplantation of uterus, transplantation of an organ that is not a paired, like a small intestine, if you have a child with a deficiency, a short small intestine after surgery, you will not be able to have the small intestine transplanted because it is not a paired. So in order to be able to vote on this point, please let G2 be as an amendment to A2. That's in agreement with the legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u35	Thank you, and this has been the last one entered into the debate so far. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the debate and I am asking the applicant's final words or the rapporteur. Not interested. We will proceed to the vote on the amendments. I will call our colleagues from the lobby, and I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to inform us of the voting procedure, to present the various amendments and to give us the opinion of the committee. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u36	First, we should vote on legislative technical changes that have been proposed from three sides. We should then vote on point A1, then on point A2, then on points B1, B2, B3, if adopted as legislative technical amendments. In addition, points C. If the votes are cast, the F1 to F7 are non-voting. Furthermore, D1, D2, E, F1-F2, F2-F3, F4, F5-F7/4, F6, F7/1-3, G1, G2, G3, G4 and vote on the law as a whole. I will then tell you on individual points what this is about, so that you know what you are voting for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u37	And we'll be grateful. Thank you, rapporteur. I'm asking who else has a proposal for a procedure. No one else has a proposal for a procedure, so we will vote on the draft procedure, as the rapporteur has put it. Initiating vote on the draft procedure. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 452 vote, 162 Members of Parliament are registered, for 147, against none. The motion was accepted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u38	First, we should vote on proposals for legislative technical adaptations under Section 95 para. 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u39	The position of the guarantee committee? [[Yes.]] The Minister's position? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote on legislative technical adaptations. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 453 vote, 162 Members and Members, for 148, against none. The proposal for legislative technical amendments was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u40	Now we should vote on point A1 of Professor Vyzula on the amendment of the Public Health Act. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u41	The Minister's position? [[Recommendant.]] There's a check-out request. I'm still checking you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We've heard opinions. They're both recommending. And we will vote on proposal A1. Initiating vote on proposal A1. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 454. 151 Members and Members are registered, for 144, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u42	Furthermore, we should vote on the point A2 of Professor Vyzula. It's a change in the transplant law, the general technical one, without the uterus, the small intestines, the non-pair organs, and the restorative organs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u43	The position of the guarantee committee? [[Yes.]] The Minister's position? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote on A2. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 455. 151 Members and Members are registered, for 151, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u44	There will now be three amendments by Mr Farský. First, B1, this is the responsibility of the State for the damage caused by regular vaccination. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u45	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I started the vote on Amendment B1. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 456 vote. 151 Members and Members are registered for 43, versus 65. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u46	B2 - launch of confirmation of the child's infectivity by legal representatives. It's the paperwork on the infectivity. Unadvisable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u47	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating vote on B2. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 457 vote. 151 Members and Members are registered, for 34, against 99. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u48	B3 - renewal of a child's medical certificate from one year to two years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u49	I'm sorry, it says here, Mr. Rapporteur, that if... Sorry, yes. Okay. Yes, we didn't vote, so B3. Yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u50	B3 - renewal of a child's medical certificate for two years from one year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u51	The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommended.]] The Minister's position? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote on B3. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 458 vote. 151 Members and Members are registered, for 111, against 26. Proposal B3 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u52	We are now at pandořina's box of artificial insemination of Chalánková - C1 through C9. The whole law together. Unadvisable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u53	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating vote on C1 through C9. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 459 vote. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 20, against 106. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u54	D1 Member Pecková - transsexuality. That's the composition of the committees that approve it. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u55	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating D1 vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 460 vote. 153 Members and Members are registered, for 30, against 98. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u56	D2, Mrs Pecková - assisted reproduction, artificial insemination, provider only with an authorisation, which is a specialist at IVF, not a gynecologist. The rapporteur's opinion - not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u57	The Minister's position? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote on D2. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 461 vote. Registered 153 Members, for 71, against 53. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u58	And we are at the artificial insemination of Mr. Adámek's unmarried women. Opinion of the Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u59	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I am opening the vote on the amendment under the letter E. Anyone who is in favour, raise his hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 462 vote. For 40, against 61. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u60	We now have the same proposal on seven pieces as Mrs Chalánková's proposal in the version of Mr Hovorka. First it's F1, F2/1. There it relates to the number of embryos, age and kinship. For all these points, the committee's position will be unadvisable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u61	The Minister's position? [[Also at all points not recommended.]] Initiating vote on Amendment F1 and Amendment F2/1. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 463 vote. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 12, against 105. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u62	F2 through 3. There are anonymous donors in the last 12 months. It's just a piece of the law again. Unadvisable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u63	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] I started the vote on F2/2 through F3. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 464 vote. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 21, against 102. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u64	F4 - donor with one provider. Unadvisable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u65	The Minister's position on F4? [[Unadvisable.]] I started the F4 vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 465 vote. 152 Members and Members are enrolled, for 14, against 115. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u66	F5, F7/4 - mothers carriers, surrogacy motherhood. Not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u67	Mr. Secretary? [[Unadvisable.]] I started the vote on F5 and F7/4. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 466 vote. 152 Members and Members are registered, for 12, against 115. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u68	F6 tissue donation and reward for gametes and tissues. Not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u69	Mr. Secretary? [[Unadvisable.]] I started the F6 vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 467 vote. 153 Members and Members are registered, for 12, against 116. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u70	F7/1 to 3 is the projection of all that we have not voted on now, if this were voted on, into the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u71	The Minister's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Not recommended.]] Initiating vote. Whoever is for F7/1 to 3, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 468 vote. 153 Members and Members are registered, for 1, against 104. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u72	G1 is the regulation of administrative fees when you close practice when you change practice. Recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u73	Mr. Secretary? [[Recommendant.]] I started the G1 vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 469 vote. 154 Members and Members are enrolled, for 147, versus 1. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u74	G2 is a change in transplant law so that transplants can be performed from a living human organ that reproduces, which is non-pairy, event. The uterus. Recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u75	The Minister's position on the G2? [[Recommendant.]] I've started the vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 470 vote. 154 Members and Members are enrolled, for 131, against 3. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u76	G3 concerns the issue of medical and medical opinions. Recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u77	Mr. Secretary? [[Recommendant.]] I started the G3 vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 471 vote. 154 Members and Members are enrolled, for 149, against 4. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u78	And the last, G4, is the effective date of this law - four months after the end of the process.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u79	Committee opinion? [[Recommended.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Recommendant.]] I started the G4 vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's a 472 vote. 154 Members and Members are enrolled, for 148, against 1. This proposal has also been adopted. This has dealt with all the amendments. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u80	You were incredibly perceptive, so we only have to agree to the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-003-241.u81	All proposals were therefore voted on. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 373/2011... [[A Member of Kalousek comes to the pitch and slaps his hands loudly.]] Yes, Mr President, I will sign you all off, but I will first read the motion for a resolution with permission. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 373/2011 Coll., on specific health services, as amended, and some other laws, according to the House's Press 874, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I ask for the rapporteur's opinion and the Minister's opinion on the bill as a whole. [[Rapporteur: Agreed.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I am opening the vote on the bill as a whole. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 473 vote. 155 Members and Members are registered, for 133, against 2. I state that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. I have two more excuses. Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes today within 15 hours for working reasons, and Mr Martin Komárek apologises today from 14.30 to 16.00 for working reasons. The next item is:
