ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u1	Member's promise Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed to the pledge of a new Member for Mr Vítězslav Jandák. First, I will ask Mr Vice-President Martin Plíšek's mandate and immunity committee to introduce us to the steps he has taken, and then he has read the Constitution's prescribed promise, which the new Member will put in my hands. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Members of Parliament, 9 June 2017 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u3	I'm gonna interrupt you, Mr. Vice-President. I will ask everyone to settle in their seats and allow for a dignified atmosphere for the pledge of a new Member. Thank you, everyone. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. On 9 June 2017, Mr Vítězslav Jandák took up office as a member of the Council of the Czech Radio and informed the President of the Chamber of Deputies in writing in accordance with the text of Section 7 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. According to the provisions of § 5 para. 1 of the Czech Radio Act is a membership of the Council incompatible with the position of a Member, and therefore the mandate of Mr Vítězslav Jandák is terminated by law. The alternate shall take over the mandate of the Member for whom the alternate is acting at the time of termination of the mandate of the Member and in accordance with Article 54 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 of the Act on Elections to the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the vacant mandate of a Member shall be replaced by an alternate from the candidate list of the same political party on the candidate list for election in the electoral region in which a Member whose mandate has been vacant, in the order of the election results. According to the results of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies held on 25 and 26 October 2013, Ms Vlasta Bohdalová was the first substitute for the Czech Social Democratic Party for the South Bohdal region. The second alternate, Senator Karel Kratochvíle, gave up the status of alternate by notarial record, which was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies on 23 March 2016. The resignation of an alternate has been confirmed by the mandate and immunity committee by resolution 154 of 15 April 2016 and this resolution has been recorded in the minutes of the State Election Commission on the outcome of the elections held in the Chamber of Deputies on 25 and 26 October 2013 and has been sent to the President of the Chamber of Deputies for information. A third alternate member, Mr. Václav Valhoda, was therefore called to the vacant mandate of a member of the ČSSD for the South Bohemian Region. At the 51st meeting of today's meeting, the mandate and immunity committee adopted Resolution 204, stating that - first of all - on 9 June 2017 the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, Mgr, expired. Vítězslav Jandák, born on 3 August 1947, in accordance with the provisions of Section 6 (b). (f) the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. Second, on 9 June 2017, the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was created by engineer Václav Valhod, born 25 June 1959. With this resolution, I was asked to introduce the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall.]] In accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Václav Valhoda will now make a parliamentary pledge. I ask the Member to appear before the Chamber of Deputies and, at the same time, I ask the President to accept the promise of a new Member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u5	Mr Vice-President, I will ask the House for peace so that you can present in a dignified environment the Constitution's prescribed pledge to the Member. The Vice-President is ready, and so is his colleague. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u6	Promise of a Member of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. "I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic, I promise to uphold its Constitution and laws. I promise on my honour that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of my people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." [[The Member confirms his promise by hand to the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies and by signature.]] Dear Member, I congratulate you on your duties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u7	I welcome the new Member, a colleague from the South Bohemia Region, Václav Valhoda. I wish him every success in his parliamentary work and I will turn back the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u8	Thank you. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member of Pavel Čihák and a Member of Jiří Dolejš. Does anyone else have a suggestion? If that is not the case, I shall initiate the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number one. 125 Members registered, for 107, against 1, this proposal was adopted. I note that we have appointed Members of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Pavel Čihák and Mr Jiří Dolejš, as verifiers of the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Jan Hamáček, for reasons of foreign travel, Jan Bartošek for reasons of employment until 17.00, Jiří Běhounek until 15.20 hours for Zuzana of work, Ondřej Benešík until 15.00 hours for reasons of work, Jan Birke for reasons of foreign travel, Marek Černoch for reasons of foreign travel, Číp Čík for reasons of health, Jan Farský for reasons of work, Vlastimil Gabrhel for reasons of health, Leoš Heger for Vostrá of work, Daniel Korte for reasons of work, Rom Kostřica for reasons of work, Michal Kučera for reasons of work, Helena Langšádlová for 15.00 hours for reasons of work, Miroslava Němcová for reasons of foreign travel, Igor Nykl for reasons of employment, Kristýna Šykl for Zelienková of employment, Gabriela Pecková for reasons of work, František Petrtýl for reasons of work, Jiří Petrů for Volný of health reasons, Zahradník Sedláček for reasons of employment, for Šánová of professional reasons of professional reasons of Miráchová, Karel Schová, for Schwarzenberg of foreign travel, for Vácha of the reasons of the Czech Republic, for reasons of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic, for reasons of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic for reasons of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic for Dana for Váhalová for reasons for reasons for reasons for reasons of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech Republic of the Czech [[14.10 hours]] From members of the government apologize: Bohuslav Sobotka due to foreign travel, Pavel Bělobrádek for work reasons, Jiří Havlíček due to foreign travel, Daniel Herman due to foreign travel, Miloslav Ludvík for work reasons, Michaela Marksová for work reasons, Robert Pelikán for work reasons, Stanislav Štech for work reasons, Dan Ťok for work reasons and Lubomír Zaorálek for foreign travel reasons. Mr Huml will vote with replacement card number 72. Thank you. We will now proceed to the establishment of the 59th meeting, the proposal of which is on the invitation. First of all, I would like to inform you about the proposals that were agreed on by today's grémium. We propose to eliminate points 7 and 105 of the draft programme. This is House printing 1054, university hospital, second and third reading. Tuesday, 27. 6. We propose to discuss fixed points in order 1, 3, 4 and 2. These are laws rejected and returned by the Senate. Wednesday, 28. 6. insert point 5 for a fixed item 40 of the proposal for a programme. It is a House press of 699, a register of contracts, returned to the Senate. At 12.45, discuss voting points 138, 139, 140 and 141. [[I'd ask my colleague not to yell at me when I speak. Thank you.]] Thursday, 29. 6. for the fixed item 44 of the proposal to include point 51. It is the House's press 823, the withdrawal of reservations to the Convention, the Treaties. That's all for this moment on my part. I am asking the Members of Parliament, if necessary, to comment on the proposal for a programme. At this point, I am the first to register President Kalousek's application, which I hereby give the floor to. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. I'm gonna ask you once more to calm down in the hall! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u9	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to propose the inclusion of an extraordinary point as the first point in today's negotiations. The title of the item would be: Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the brutal repression of demonstrations in Russia on 12 June this year. As you have noticed, on 12 June this year the repressive and police authorities in Moscow and St Petersburg have brutally intervened against peaceful demonstrators. More than a thousand were arrested and many were beaten. We could see in the footage that the police were beating the kids. Some of us may recall that, for the last time in this country, children were beaten up in November 1989 for peacefully expressed political attitudes. This procedure was contrary to the protection of human rights that we are claiming, contrary to the fundamental principles of each democratic country. The brutality of this procedure has aroused corruption throughout the free world, and many governments have condemned this act. The White House condemned them, too. Many of us wanted to hear the words of judgment and protest from the Government of the Czech Republic. The government of the Czech Republic has been completely silent and silent for two weeks. I think it's a failure, and I think it's a shame. I think that countries like us who have suffered similar, even worse repression for 40 years, and free people in our country have been grateful for every act of foreign disapproval against such a procedure, so such a country has no right to remain silent. He has a duty to remain silent. And its top bodies should make a clear statement on this. So I'm asking you to place this point. I don't think the discussion may be too long. It is important for the Chamber of Deputies to make clear its position on what took place in Moscow and St Petersburg on 12 June. In advance, I would like to tell you what kind of resolution I would propose if you decided to include this point. I would like to propose the resolution as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic strongly condemns the brutal action of the order forces on 12 June in Russia against peaceful demonstrators. The procedure was contrary to the protection of human rights and respect for the fundamental principles of every democratic country." Of course, we are prepared to discuss the wording of the resolution with any member club, but I very much ask that the Chamber of Deputies do not remain silent and correct the shame caused by the government of the Czech Republic by its own silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I beg you very much, let us find strength in ourselves, let us sit in our seats and try to see what we are discussing here. The noise level in the room is above average. I'll read the apologies. Mr Lukáš Pleticha apologizes for today's meeting until 18 o'clock for working reasons, further apologises for today's meeting until 16 o'clock for personal reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová, and Mr Vladislav Vilímec apologizes for personal reasons for the meeting from 15.15 to the end of the day. Mr. Vice-President Gazdík votes with a replacement card. The card's 78th. Mr Karel Fiedler, to whom I hereby give the floor, submitted his next motion to amend the agenda for the meeting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u11	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, my colleagues are asking me if there will be bonds. Yes, I didn't fail, there will be bonds, because you wanted to tax them so much. But to my great surprise, this point, which last meeting even had the number of the meeting point, was no longer on the agenda of this meeting. The parties to the government coalition on the Gremium, where they certainly have a majority and decide what will be discussed and what will not be discussed, do not even have the will to discuss this point, even though you have committed yourselves - and especially the ANO parliamentary club - how you will seek to collect taxes, how you will push for taxes to be paid, only if it concerns your President, who is traditionally not here, because he is no longer interested in the House, and his House press 1058, who has simply paid for the form to soothe the then turbulent waters, is no longer going to propose. So I would like to propose the inclusion of the House press of 1074, the amendment to the Act on Investment Incentives, which deals with the taxation of koruna bonds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u12	I'm gonna ask for peace. It's the third time today. Thank you, colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u13	I propose that the House Press 1074, the amendment to the Investment Incentives Act, be included in the agenda for this meeting, so that we can be in the scheme under § 90 para. By way of derogation from Article 2 (2) to approve this matter, this taxation, from 1 January 2018, so that we no longer have to deal with whether or not they are to be taxed from this new tax period. [[14.20 hours]] Because, as you have all declared, you are seeking this, especially the colleagues here from the ANO parliamentary club, also from social democracy, who have provoked the government crisis through this point, and certainly from the TOP 09 that has criticised this widely on the Committee on Budgets. So I assume that the Chamber of Deputies will finally seize this and accept this proposal of mine. I propose two options - to discuss it today as the first point after the fixed points, i.e. the backs of the Senate, or on Tuesday, 11. 7. as the first item in the Rules of Procedure. If you, colleagues, are going to vote against this proposal, I call on you to stop lying to voters, how do you want to tax those who are to be taxed, how do you want to combat tax avoidance? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u14	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I ask you to stay at the speaker's desk and make your second proposal. [[Strong noise in the whole hall.]] And once again, I'm going to ask for peace in the room so we can hear what's being proposed to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u15	I would still like to propose the inclusion of a completely new point that we have not yet had in the House system, and it is that a number of citizens are turning to me and asking me how it is actually about lithium mining after we have had a famous OKD case here, when the state has lost and some others have made rich money. I therefore propose the inclusion of a point entitled Information of the Government on the conditions for lithium mining in the Czech Republic. I think we should listen to the conditions under which the mineral wealth of the Czech Republic will be treated. Our mineral reserves are narrowing down, our deficits are still huge, rich oligarchs - they are increasing. And here I feel again - not just me, but also a number of citizens - that there is going to be another case where the state will be silently watching private companies make rich money. I think it should be a priority for the state. It's my general opinion, which is why I would like to place this point. I will repeat the title once again: Information of the Government on the conditions for lithium mining in the Czech Republic. I propose, as an alternative, two terms, it is Thursday, June 29th after the fixed points, or Thursday, July 13th, firmly at 11 o'clock, or as the first item on the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u16	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With the replacement card number 79, Mr Kořenek votes. Mr Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor joined the agenda next. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u17	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm here again with the same thing, this time a little stronger. I'm asking you to approve on Thursday 29th. 6. after the fixed points of the amendment to the State Holidays Act. It's point 170 and House press 943. I also want to support this request because it is an important day of Czech statehood. When I looked at the important days of Czech statehood that we have on our calendar, I found that about 80 percent of them relate to World War II. We don't have anything in our history. Czech statehood arose around the ninth century, in the tenth, eleventh and so on. And you all know that it is connected with Prince Bořivoj, that it is mainly connected with Prince Břetislav II, who died - to be all in the picture - in 1055, which extended the territory of the Czech state to almost Ukraine. Furthermore, they were the kings of Vratislav and Vladislav. Vladislav died in 1172 and took part in a crusade to the Holy Land, and that there were other Přemysl kings - Přemysl ., Václav I, Václav II, Přemysl II. And then Lucemburk - Karel IV, Zikmund Lucemburský and Jan Lucemburský. So these rulers made up our history. And there's no mention of them at all. I therefore suggest that the day of May 14th be celebrated as an important day of Czech statehood, because Přemyslovna Přemyslněněně son Václav, later Karel IV was born. [[Strong noise in the whole hall.]] And since I've been pushing Eliška Přemyslovna for at least five years to bless and sanctimonious, I want to read you a letter I received today from Archbishop Dominik Duka...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u18	Mr. Ambassador, you're right. I cannot hear what the Member is speaking. I'm really gonna ask you to calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u19	I think it is an important message that Mr Dominik Duka writes to me, because if it were to happen that Eliška Přemyslovna will be congratulated, then we will have another Czech ruler - or Czech citizen - in quotation marks - in the world of a very famous personality. "I confirm receipt of your request to begin the beatification process of Czech and Polish Queen Eliška Přemyslovna, accompanied by a comprehensive report on the activities aimed at initiating the beatification process of Czech and Polish Queen Eliška Přemyslovna 2017 - 725 years old, and thank you for their handover. I very much appreciate your work on this subject and your patience with which you have done it. I think it would be good to revive Queen Eliška Přemyslovna's cult." Then there's another treatise on how to proceed. Therefore, not only I, but also Eliška Přemyslovna and the Czech nation, need you to support the important day of Czech statehood Eliška Přemyslovna and Karel IV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u20	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Vladimír Koníček, Mr Vladimír Koníček, also signed up for the agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u21	Dear Vice-President, honourable colleagues. At the previous meetings, I asked you from this place for a firm classification of points relating to the amendment to the law on settlement with churches and religious societies. One was presented by Members of the KSČM, the other by the representative of the South Bohemia Region. At this meeting, the organizational committee did not include these prints in the programme at all. Since, before the 2013 elections, the Czech Party promised support for such a proposal by the Social Democratic Party and the ANO movement on presentation to the House, by the mouth of its President, expressed its support for these proposals, I would like to ask you to include a new item on the agenda of this meeting and it is the first reading of the House of Press 738, a proposal by Members for the KSČM, which amends Act No.428/2012 Coll., on property settlement with churches and religious companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u22	To be exact, you're only asking to be on the show. [[Mr. Horsey agrees.]] Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Tomio Okamura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, I request that an extraordinary item be placed on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies meeting entitled The discussion of the results and circumstances of the Luxembourg Court between the Czech Republic and Diag Human. I have many reasons for this proposal. From information in the media, it is obvious that 27. 4. 2017 a decision was taken before the Luxembourg Court against the Czech Republic in favour of arbitration proceedings between the Czech Republic and Diag Human. The Court's decision confirmed the enforcement of the results of the 2008 arbitration, which now amounts to 13.5 billion. CZK, to be paid by the Czech Republic. I believe that this is a matter which needs to be discussed here in the House of Deputies. The circumstances which led to this case should be discussed. It is necessary to discuss the course of this case and, of course, to discuss who is responsible for any damage caused by the Czech Republic. It is necessary to learn the truth and, where appropriate, initiate a consistent investigation of the whole thing. I firmly believe that with my SPD colleagues, I am not alone in these matters. After all, it is not possible for us to pretend that nothing is happening at the moment when serious financial loss or inflicted on the Czech Republic was evidently caused. The whole case is the result of irresponsibleness and apparently also of villainy, which were carried out by health ministers at the Ministry of Health for ČSSD and ODS. There was literally a lobbyist game with a state contract and a subsequent dispute where the result will be paid by Czech citizens. It is tragic that he legally represented the company Diag Human Jan Kalvoda, who was Vice-President of the Czech Government in 1996, at the time when the company was to be damaged by the Czech Republic. Not citizens from their taxes, but responsible politicians should pay for this case. Our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - The SPD has long proposed to impose the direct personal responsibility of all politicians. Bělobrádkův, Babišův, Bělbrádkova's government, however, rejected our bill in the House two years ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u24	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And I'm going to ask you to remain in your position. Just to add, you ask only to include the item on the agenda, not to place it firmly at a certain time. Isn't that right? [[Ambassador Okamura agrees.]] Excellent. So, please, your next suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose once again, this year for the sixteenth time, that we finally adopt the law on a national referendum. Looking at the agenda of the current meeting, I am really shocked because the government coalition of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL not only cheats voters throughout the electoral period, even though they had this proposal in their programming statement, they did not accept it in four years, nor did they give it to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion, but they have already definitively excluded it from the agenda of the meeting. So, of course, it's a voter scam like thunder. So even though you have excluded it from the meeting, I am asking you, by voting back, to include this draft referendum law, which I have been proposing in this House for almost four years repeatedly, and the government coalition of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL movement is constantly rejecting my proposal, although, as I have already said, the Government itself has promised the adoption of this law to the people in the programming declaration. The fact is that neither Bohuslav Sobotka, nor Andrej Babiš, nor Pavel Bělobrádek, nor Miroslav Kalousek, nor Petr Fiala of the ODS want democracy. And I'm not just talking about a referendum. You have denied me here in the House and our bill on the direct personal responsibility of ministers and captains. And you also rejected our proposal for direct choice and rebuttal of politicians. [[Big noise in the hall.]] But back to the referendum law. Here on this particular case, we all see your government constantly tricking citizens. You always promise something, even in writing, to sign this promise to each other publicly, and then, of course, forget it. And at the very end of the day, you're gonna argue with each other about who's more lying and stealing. You are showing a truly ruthless political comedy for which citizens pay you dearly. When we think about unfulfilled government promises, there are many of them, and the result of your four-year reign is that people really don't have any more left in their wallets than they did in the previous reigns of Miroslav Kalousek and ODS. There is even less left for pensioners after the increase, i.e. de facto nothing. The government of the ČSSD, the movement YES and KDU-ČSL have completely failed. You didn't do retirement reform, so the elderly are living. You haven't solved the execution system or the loan shark. You have not solved support for families with children, so the working families are still afraid to have more children. You have also basically bureaucratized your business. During your reign, security has deteriorated significantly, so soldiers and policemen with machine guns are walking the streets. People are increasingly concerned about the worsening availability of healthcare. The results of Czech schoolchildren are also deteriorating in international comparison. The Supreme Audit Office, the SAO, repeatedly draws attention to overpriced contracts at ministries led by the ANO movement, specifically at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Stropnický, and also at ministries led by ČSSD and KDU-ČSL. Even cleaning orders are overpriced several times. If I sum it all up, what I'm saying is still true. Until we establish a direct enforceable responsibility for politicians, a programme that promotes our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD, we will not move anywhere. It's all over again. I request a firm inclusion of the bill on the referendum, press number 552, on today's agenda, right after the already fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u26	Just to clarify, I have information that it's printing 559, not 552.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u27	Well, as you've been putting it off for four years now and again, it's hard to navigate. You're right. I mean, you're probably right. Who's supposed to know?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u28	I mark and ask you to stand down and make your third proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, once again and again, I urge you that the House, in connection with the constant terrorist attacks in Europe committed by Islamic terrorists, should place as a point of the agenda for today the draft amendment to criminal law, press 985, which has prepared our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - the SPD, and which extends the criminality of promoting a movement aimed at suppressing the rights and freedoms of citizens and causing hatred, also to the criminality of promoting such ideology. At present, only such a movement is criminal in the Czech Republic, but not ideology. And again, to my unkind surprise, I found that the government coalition of the ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL even excluded this bill from the agenda because you refuse to talk about the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic and about the fight against Islamic ideology. We are all shaken by the spread of individual killings in the name of Islam throughout Europe. It is just the tip of the iceberg, because there is also daily violence, bullying of women and crime associated with religion and promoting this ideology, which does not know gender equality, equality of religion, civil equality, or human rights, or democracy. It is a destructive ideology that destroys Western society and enables many of the popular integration and multiculturalism. Of course, we in the SPD reject the ideas that Islam presents. Terrorism is just a method of fighting, fighting for some ideology. If we allow ideology to say that there are no rights, but only an obligation to Alláh, then you will never achieve peace and harmony with democracy with people infected with such propaganda. It's not a false warning. A month ago, leading Islamists presented the false face of Islam even on the campus of Charles University. And all this took place under the scandalous auspices of the Rector of Charles University, Professor Tomáš Zima. This ideology is a million times more dangerous than Hitler Nazism. In her name, more than 13 centuries are being killed and ward on a continuous basis. This ideology destroyed Greece's civilization in Asia Minor and ancient civilization in Egypt. The Germán did not destroy Roman civilization, but once again the Islamic occupation of the Mediterranean led to the fall of the greatest empire of all time. Europe subsequently resisted for centuries the constant attacks of Muslims from all sides, and the war of Muslims for world domination never ended. The ally of the Czech government - the Turkish President - is openly reporting to conquer Europe by Muslims. Islam is the ideology of war. Islamic ideology cannot be compared to Christianity or other religions. While Ježíš proclaims a secular state and nonviolence, the Koran and the Sunnah clearly command the battle by all means for the victory of Islam on the entire planet and proclaim that this fight is endless. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to include this bill of law of our SPD movement on the agenda of this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as we realise that one's freedom ends where the other's freedom begins. And freedom of Islam ends the moment it denies our freedom and our rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u30	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I pass on the floor to Mrs Jana Černochová, I will ask you again if anyone has anything to discuss to transfer the debate to the foyer. Mr Okamura has managed to scream you, but not everyone has such a sound voice. So, please, calm down! Mrs Jana Černochová with her proposal. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u31	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As in previous discussions of the agenda, I propose the same thing today. I propose to include the proposal of Members Martin Sedlář, Martin Stropnický, Jana Černochová, David Kádner and others to issue a law amending Act No. 585/2004 Coll., on defence obligations and its provision, the so-called defence law, as amended, and Act No. 45/2016 Coll., on the service of soldiers in reserve, it is the House print 1094. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] This proposal is submitted in such a way that the House can agree with it at first reading. It is the so-called Section 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. Just a little while ago, I saw the Minister of Defense Stropnický here, and the rapporteur for the committee was also here, Mr. fellow Member Sedlář. Indeed, this bill will not take us more than five, ten minutes. The Minister and all of us who have signed this parliamentary proposal have promised the members of the active advance that this standard will be discussed and adapted during this parliamentary term. If we didn't do it today, it would be too late in September. The next proposal I would like to make to you and ask you to include it is the proposal of Members Jana Černochová, Petr Fiala, Petr Bendl and others to issue the Act amending Act No. 222/1999 Coll., on Security of Defence of the Czech Republic, as amended. It's House Press 1041. Again, this proposal is submitted so that the House can agree with it in the first reading according to § 90. The last proposal, as well as my notoriety, is the proposal of Members Jana Černochová, Ivan Gabal, Jan Hamáček, David Kádner, Martin Stropnickýý and Marek Ženíšek to issue a constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended constitutional laws, House print 956. It is sending troops to foreign operations in the regime within 60 days - the government of the Czech Republic. In the past and last week, I have seen so many positive responses in the media to the fact that this proposal here is ready and presented, that I think it is our duty to address this bill during this parliamentary term, because if this proposal, and there was political agreement, falls under the table, we will lose a year to send soldiers in accelerated proceedings, for example, within the framework of the so-called forces of ultra-fast response. This is the commitment the Ministry of Defence made after the Wales Alliance Summit in 2014. I think this standard is really prepared well and comfortably with the Constitution. Constitutional lawyers worked with us on it. So I would like to place these three points, and that is for today after the laws passed by the Senate, all three of them. Please vote separately. Or tomorrow, Wednesday, 28th. 6. as the first points of the afternoon meeting. Once again, I ask you to vote separately. The last option is Friday 30. 6. After the already firmly placed points, once again, I ask that we vote on this separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u32	Thank you. If a proposal were successful, we'd always put another one of the points behind it. I got it right. Thank you. Next, she applied to the draft agenda for the meeting of Mrs Marta Semelová. [[The noise in the hall is still large. Very poor hearing.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u33	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I propose the inclusion of a new item in today's negotiations on the sale of the Písnice housing estate. The government has been successfully ignoring the existential problem of several thousand people living on the Prague settlement of Písnice, which now threatens to grow into a case similar to OKD and RPG Apartments. The issue is all the more paradoxical, how much more the government's social democracy is now taking, what efforts it will make to solve the OKD flats. I have intervened on several occasions in this matter both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. Mr Koubek, who is the mayor of that part of the city. The representatives of the initiative have dealt with the Magistrate in no way. The problem was dealt with in April by the House Committee on Social Policy, which, by its resolution, called on the Minister of Finance to consider joining the decision-making action of tenants. On 12 June, a meeting took place with the Prime Minister, who recommended the initiative to submit a request to the Ministry of Finance to join the determining action and to submit an application for an interim measure against the registration of the new owner in the Land Register. At the same time, he promised to be personally interested in the process of processing their request. Instead, they and the Ministry of Finance and the Prague City Hall are tossing hot song potatoes and they are not interested in them. According to them, CEZ took maximum social considerations when it included in the tender the conditions which would oblige the new owner to treat the tenants politely or to provide a solid offer of sale of flats to them. However, the new owner of the apartments, CIB Rent Písnice s. r. o., did not commit to these conditions. Given the setting of the competition, both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister had to know that it was a very transparent formal maneuver, which should have closed his mouth to uncomfortable troublemakers from the ranks of stormy tenants and some media. The tenants are already coming for a period of time with proposals for new leases containing an increase in rent of thousands of crowns. The same is expected soon by tenants with permanent contracts. [[The noise in the room won't stop!]] The government is intrigued by the interests of private shareholders. Shouldn't the interest of the Czech state, which will have to pay large amounts for housing contributions or citizens' interest, be a priority for it? CIB Rent Písnice, without being registered as owner in the Land Register, has already started to increase rents by up to 50 percent, and it is proud on its website that it has so far won all the litigations that raised rents in the apartments it acquired in its ownership. In his intimidation, he exploits the fact that most tenants in the housing estate are old age and cannot afford very expensive lawyers like the CIB. What kind of firm is this? CIB Rent Písnice s. r. o. is 100% owned by the Dutch company CIB Group NV with registered office at Amsterdam airport Schiphol with registered capital of 1 million. EUR. An extract from the company's business register lists Imfc Management as the sole shareholder, which, while standing only at the founding of the company, is present at the same time in the infamous Panama Papers. Its own structure is demonstrated by reference to the media, with Alois Přibyl and Pavel Španko the owners. However, this does not result from extracts from Czech and Dutch trade registers. Mr. Španko is listed as the CEO of CIB Rent Písnice and Mr. Přibyl as the director of the Dutch CIB Group. The ownership structure is therefore very unclear. The company's capital is 1.6 million. CZK, buying a housing estate with approximately 3,000 tenants for 1.2 billion. Crowns. In view of the buyer's property structure, it can reasonably be assumed that any further management of these properties, including any recovery of damage to the previous situation and the like, would be very difficult in the future. [[14.50 hours]] How is it that a 70 percent state-owned company chooses such a company as a partner? The day after tomorrow, June 29th, the deadline for the definitive transfer of the song house into the hands of this company ends. If, despite the calls of Members and demonstrations of desperate citizens, the government has not yet acted, the Chamber of Deputies now has the last opportunity to get it to do so. Therefore, my colleagues, I urge you to support the inclusion of a point called the Sale of the Sandstone estate as the first point after the fixed points of today's negotiations. Its discussion should, inter alia, result in a resolution, respectively. in an invitation to the Government to apply to the competent court for an interim measure to prevent the transfer of assets from ČEZ, a. s., to CIB Rent Písnice, without delay, so as to prevent the transfer of assets to 29. 6. 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u34	I thank you, Madame, and I ask you to present your second proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u35	I propose to include another item on the agenda that has been excluded from the meeting on the ground that its discussion and approval does not seem to be a priority for the government coalition, although it promised the opposite before the elections. This is the House's press 1078, the Government's bill on backed-up maintenance and the proposal of our club KSČM, the House's print 780, the bill on replacement maintenance. I must say that I am very sorry for the hypocrisy of the government parties, which are intrigued by the care of the family, with their concrete steps testifying to the very opposite. Not only will it present this important standard at the last moment, when it is almost clear that it can no longer go through the legislative process, but also at the last moment, if we could theoretically still discuss the proposal with good will, they will withdraw it themselves from the programme. I think it must be clear to everyone that the arguments, disputes, mutual insults and intrigues that the government coalition is showing have shifted in the preferences declared solutions to people's problems to the sidelines. Just the situation of families, virtually. children of singles and singles, government coalition is no longer a priority. But it remains a priority for us communists. That's why I propose to include these points. Many single - parent families are getting into serious social and economic problems, which mainly affects children. It freezes one from information that children are taken from the family and sent to institutional care because of poverty. We got there in the 21st century! It is a complete failure of the existing system and state. Incomplete families are thus among the most at risk of poverty and social exclusion. This also results from the 2015 analysis of the Czech Statistical Office, which shows that about one third of these households are at risk of income poverty or social exclusion. Add to this a very low level of enforcement of the law. And this maintenance obligation does not meet about 40 percent of compulsory parents. The Act on Advanced Maintenance should thus at least partly help families who do not receive due and timely maintenance from the compulsory parent. There are 400,000 children in single - parent families, 22 percent of all children. Poverty and social exclusion are threatened directly by a third of singles and singles who often have nothing left to do but take loans, live on debt and risk falling into a vicious circle of debt traps and executions. Incomplete families with two or more children are four times more at risk of poverty than other populations. Significant social and economic differences are already manifest in kindergarten and primary school. These children are excluded from school trips, ski courses, schools in nature, camp holidays or recreation. In order to avoid hunger, school lunches for poor children are announced for collections and special programs. Can you imagine what happens if they don't get alimony yet? The enforcement of the law is very problematic in our country, the legal proceedings are very lengthy, they last for several years and, moreover, the court's decisions on the amount of maintenance are unpredictable. According to a survey by the Association of Single Families, only 25 percent of single parents are eligible for support for these reasons. State aid should therefore be much more pronounced. So I propose to include in the agenda the House Press 1078, the Government's bill on backed-up maintenance, and at the same time the proposal from our club KSČM, i.e. the House Press 780, the bill on replacement maintenance, as the first two points of the afternoon meeting tomorrow, Wednesday 28 June. Thank you for your attention. . [[Applause by Members of the KSČM]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u36	Thank you, Madame. Mr Miroslav Opálka, to whom I hereby give the floor, will speak next with his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u37	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I will try to convince you once again of the need to discuss the House press 392 and its inclusion on the agenda of our 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. This proposal was submitted on 23 January 2015 and the Government's position was forwarded to the House on 25 February 2015. Since then, thanks to the will of the majority, he has always waited at the end of the queue for discussion at first reading, even after my previous efforts to get his firm classification and discussion. Today, after 26 months of his first inclusion on the agenda, I must say that you will no longer find this proposal to abolish the ceiling for pensions and sickness insurance contributions and employment policy in our programme. You will not find among us any more approved newsletter, which we recently approved as a member of the SAO College. The term ends, and I must say that the constitutional right of a Member to submit a draft law, which is laid down in Article 41 in its second paragraph of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, is basically just a formal one, because it is not really fulfilled because of the will of the majority of Members, even after attempts at its firm inclusion. From this point of view, if this attempt of mine fails today, I will consider a completely real constitutional complaint after the end of this term. I therefore propose that the House press 392 be reinserted into the 59th meeting agenda, so far only in the first reading block. I would then ask for a firm inclusion tomorrow and then for a shortening of the deadline for discussion. This proposal by representatives of KSČM is not contrary to the law of the European Union. Ceilings were introduced within the right-wing amendment package of the government by Mirek Topolánek, who fundamentally amended 50 important laws in one House of Press. It has been in force since 2008 - see Act 261/2007 Coll. Legal change made the balance of the pension account worse, respectively. the state budget. It is beneficial only for multi-income groups and reduces the principle of solidarity. Members of our government supported not only Mirek Topolánek's package but also their own advantage with their negative opinion, they actually voted in conflict of interest. I'm saying we can fix this. [[15.00 hours]] I note that the principle of ceilings is not applied in all countries of the European Union, as is often said, see, for example, Belgium, Denmark, Hungary, Slovenia, but in many countries the ceilings are then at a much higher level than in the Czech Republic, so the impact on the state budget or other budgets is lower. I will not delay the interpretation of my vision of solidarity. I will just point out that, according to various sources, the abolition of the ceilings would bring 10 to 18 billion crowns a year to the Treasury, and thus to the virtual pension account. Thank you in advance for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with his proposal to amend the agenda, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Just reminding you that the Gremium proposal includes voting points 138, 139, 140, 141. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u39	I know that. Thank you for reminding me. Have a good afternoon. I'll be much more brief. I would like to ask you, colleagues, to assign one new electoral point to those which are already proposed firmly for tomorrow at 12.45, and it is a request for inclusion, or a new point called a change in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. This is because we had a deadline for proposals. We have received two proposals and the Election Commission has discussed them today. So, if possible, tomorrow, in the poll block, we will be the first to deal with the changes mentioned in the House of Deputies' bodies by public vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u40	So, like, the very first point in the polls? [[Yes.]] Yes, thank you. Mr Václav Votava will be next in line with his proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u41	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. Point 172 is included in this meeting, which is a draft State Final Account for 2016. It's printing 1106. However, this point or this press cannot be discussed now, because according to law the Supreme Audit Office is to give an opinion by the end of August. Without this opinion, we can hardly discuss the state's final account, although I would very much like us to discuss it as soon as possible and not continue to do so in what happened last years, when we were discussing the state's final account back in two years. However, this cannot be discussed at this meeting, which will probably end on 14 July. I therefore propose that this item be removed from the agenda for this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u42	Thank you. I marked the motion. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will now speak with his proposal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Unlike my many previous speakers, I do not stand here repeatedly with any proposal to amend the law. The reason and reason that I'm standing here is because we're the law that changes Law No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional competence and specialised competence for the exercise of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended, voted for a change which I consider very unfortunate for our health care. So I would like to present the press, which has number 1086, and I would like to request that it be classified as 28. 6, that is, tomorrow afternoon, as the second item in the program. In the event that the points of Ms Černochová are accepted, she will gradually move to the fifth place. [[President: Afternoon program?]] Afternoon program. By adopting an amendment to Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on conditions of acquisition and so on and so on, the specialization field was eliminated by a practical doctor for children and adolescents. The field of practical doctor for children and adolescents is an important field of primary care. It responds to the needs of Czech society and the system of childcare and youth in our country with emphasis on primary care, with emphasis on prevention, with emphasis on the transfer of care from the field of bed to outpatient care, so-called. subsidiarity. Children's care in primary care is significantly different from the treatment that takes place in hospital and clinic bed rooms. The doctor in primary care meets mainly healthy children, deals with prevention, vaccination, evaluation, social work. In diagnosis and treatment he cares for children and adolescents with frequent, mostly less severe diseases whose treatment is fully managed without the need for hospitalization. It uses the necessary technology, laboratory facilities, etc. etc. The role of a practical physician for children and adolescents is really at such a level in our Republic that everyone else can only envy us. On the other hand, a doctor in hospital care works in a team of specialists, performs detailed diagnostics, complex treatment of very complex and serious diseases, often with the approach of intensive medicine, where he must use parenteral nutrition procedures etc. etc., oxygen treatment. And this care is always tied to hospitalization. When we realize that, it's clear that each of these disciplines would have a slightly different scope for their specialization, so that they would be prepared for how different those two disciplines are. For the reasons mentioned above, we propose that the specialization field of the practical doctor for children and adolescents should be reclassified as a separate specialization in Act No. 95/2004. The draft law aims to include a practical doctor for children and adolescents in the shortest possible time, so as not to disadvantage students who end their studies in the winter semester of the academic year 2017/2018 and therefore, because of the end of the term, we propose that this amendment of Act No. 95/2004 Coll. This Decision is addressed to the Member States. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In response to all the questions that fell at the time when we discussed the law and made the change, it is already the reality - and the information is from virtually all hospital facilities in the Czech Republic - that the transfer of children's doctors, pediatricians, hospitals into field practice is being initiated and that this will mean the emptying of the bed rooms and of course the problems that the children's department has are only going to deepen and deepen. Specialization of a practical doctor for children and adolescents will also allow young doctors to enter the practice early, because the training period is actually one year shorter and fully suits what is needed. Those four years of final preparation are fully in line with the European Union Directive and are not shorter than required. I don't think there's any objection to this amendment. What is essential is that the amendment allows for a free transition from one field to another after completing some courses or supplementary education and that supplementing education is relatively very short, it will not restrict either side and it will indeed lead to practical doctors for children and youth and pediatricians having the same chance on the labour market. The interest in practical doctors for children and adolescents is great. In fact, over 80 applicants are currently applying for this field. If we cancel this field, the interest in a practical doctor for children and adolescents will be significantly weakened and care for children, a care that is absolutely essential to ensure disease prevention, will indeed be at risk, because the branch of a physician for children and adolescents is a full or mostly filled with doctors who are at an age near the age of retirement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Just to be clear. If Mrs Černochová had not succeeded with her proposal, would you have skipped the first point? Because there's no fixed rank on that Wednesday afternoon, so then you'd be the first afternoon. Yes? Okay, thank you. Mr Martin Lank, to whom I hereby give the floor, is now reporting from the seat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u45	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I would like to propose the elimination of item 20, it is the House Press 495, the Security Activity Act. We originally have this point proposed as the second point tomorrow afternoon. There are many contradictions about this law and a very long debate can be expected. When I was communicating with my fellow MPs, it seems that the speeches would be a lot. Therefore, I would suggest that we do not discuss this law under pressure, because we have some other ten points before us, which I think most colleagues here consider to be significantly more important. I think most of you simply have points on Wednesday afternoons that he considers more important, and there's a real risk that he won't get to them without the elimination. So once again, after consulting with my colleagues from other clubs, I propose that we remove the law on security activities from the agenda of this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u46	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So you're gonna take him off the agenda? [[Yes.]] Thank you. Mr Gazdík is now reporting with the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u47	Good afternoon, dear fellow Member, dear fellow Members. Let me come up with a proposal for a fixed classification of paragraph 103, which is a damage caused by the operation of the vehicle, it is the third reading, the House press 1019, tomorrow as the third point after the first two fixed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u48	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to amend or amend the agenda. Added to that by the Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u49	I'm sorry. There are three points from the Gremium, thus as the fourth point of tomorrow's negotiations after the fixed points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u50	Yes, I mark. We've dealt with all the suggestions. I don't see anyone else. I'll read a few apologies. Mrs Olga Havlová apologizes between 16 and 19 o'clock because of the hearing and Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes for today's meeting within 16 o'clock without giving any reason. Before we vote, let me welcome the new Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Mr Stanislav Štech, who is here today for the first time in this role. [[Let's hear it.]] We wish him well with us. We will therefore now proceed to the individual votes. We will be the first to vote on President Kalousek's proposal to include... Sorry. Back. First vote on grémium. I ask whether there is an interest in voting on individual points or whether we can vote on the proposal from Gremium as a whole. [[No one checked in.]] So we'll deal with the grémia proposal with one vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number two. Registered 160 Members, for 142, against 1. This proposal was adopted. Now, as I have announced, there are individual proposals. First, then, President Kalousek's proposal to include a point called the Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the brutal repression of demonstrations in Russia on 12 June this year, as the first point today. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number three. Registered 158, for 46, versus 61. This proposal has not been adopted. Furthermore, we will vote on Mr Karel Fiedler's proposal to include the House Press 1074. First of all, we will vote on having it placed as the first point today after the laws returned to the Senate. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? This is vote number four. 163 Members logged in, for 28, versus 61. This proposal was not adopted. We will now vote on this proposal as an alternative to its firm inclusion as the first item on Tuesday 11. 7. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number five. 164 Members registered, for 26, against 60. This proposal was also rejected. Furthermore, there is Mr Fiedler's proposal to include a new item on the agenda of this meeting entitled Information of the Government on the conditions for lithium mining in the Czech Republic and subsequently to include this item on the agenda after the inclusion on Thursday 29. 6. on fixed points. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number 6. 164 Members registered, for 79, against 56. This proposal was rejected. In view of the rejection, Mr Fiedler proposes an alternative inclusion for Thursday 13. 7. Steady at 11 o'clock. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 7. 163 Members registered, for 79, against 58. This proposal has not been adopted. Now, there is a proposal from my colleague Augustin Karel Andrl Sylor to include point 170, print 940, on Thursday 29. 6. first after fixed points, and this is the date of birth of Karel IV. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 8. Registered 162, for 49, versus 59. This proposal was not adopted. We will also vote on Mr Koníček's proposal, which proposed to include a new point. This is the first reading of the House press 738, an amendment to the law on property settlement with churches. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number nine. 163 Members registered, for 52, against 73. This proposal has not been adopted. [[15.20 hours]] We will now vote on Mr Okamura's proposals. First, the inclusion of a new point, discussion and information on the circumstances of the Diag Human case in Luxembourg, of arbitration, if I may, as I have seen it freely, interpret the title. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 10, 163 Members registered, for 23, against 73. The motion was not accepted. Mr Okamura's next proposal is to include a new point, namely the House Press item 559 on the referendum. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 11, 162 Members signed in, for 51, against 72. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The third proposal by Mr Okamura is to include the House press 985, an amendment to the Criminal Code, on the agenda of this meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 12, 163 Members registered, for 4, against 87. This proposal was not adopted. We are now coming to Mrs Černochová's proposals. If he agrees, we would always vote according to the press, always alternatively, always the press and there are two terms. So first, the House Press 1094. [[Responses to responses from the diaper.]] Yeah, so first, we go through one press and three dates. So, first of all, the House Press 1094 will place firmly after the Senate's laws today. Initiating the vote, I ask who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 13, registered is 163, for 34, versus 83. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the same press to include it on Wednesday 28. 6. as the first point of the afternoon meeting. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 14, 164 Members registered, for 37, against 89. Nor has this proposal been adopted. The third proposal for this press was for it to be firmly placed on Friday 30. 6. on fixed points. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number 15, registered by 165 Members, for 88, against 55. This proposal was adopted. Another press proposed by Mrs Černochová is press 1041 and it should be listed first again after the laws returned to the Senate, i.e. today. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 16, 164 Members registered, for 20, against 86. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on the inclusion of this press on Wednesday as the first item in the afternoon negotiations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 17, 165 Members signed in for 21, against 91. This proposal was not adopted. And by the third time, we will vote on the inclusion of this press on Friday 30. 6. after the fixed points and after that point, which has already been voted on. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 18, 165 Members registered, for 71, against 45. This proposal has not been adopted. And we're getting to press number 956, first reading, constitutional law. This is a broadcast on foreign operations. The first is whether to include the proposal by law returned to the Senate today. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number 19, 165 Members registered, for 45, against 78 This proposal has not been adopted. We will therefore vote for this press to be the first point on this Wednesday to be the first in the afternoon negotiations. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? The vote is number 20, 165 Members registered, for 44, against 74. The motion was not accepted. We are now going to vote on the inclusion of this item, following the firmly included and one, which was approved by Mrs Černochová, on Friday 30. 6. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against the proposal? This is vote number 21, registered by 165 Members, for 52, against 71. This proposal has not been adopted. Next, we will vote on Mrs Marta Semelová's proposal, which proposes the inclusion of a new point whose name will be precisely the Sale of Flats - Songs. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of putting a new item on the agenda of this meeting? Who's against it? Voting number 22, 162 Members signed in, for 60, against 56. This proposal has not been adopted. [[15.30 hours]] Furthermore, Mrs Marta Semelová proposes the inclusion of points by the House press 1078 and by the House press 780. And both of these points for the afternoon as the first afternoon meeting on Wednesday 28. 6. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is a 23 vote, 164 Members signed up for 36, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, we have here the proposal by Mr Opálka, who proposes to include the House Press 392 on the agenda in the first reading block. This is the Social Security Insurance Act. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 24, 165 Members registered, for 42, versus 77. The motion was not accepted. Mr Kolovratník's proposal is also here to place the proposal as the first one on this Wednesday at 12.45 - the item will be called a change in the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies - an election point. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is a 25 vote, 165 Members signed up for 144, against 2. This proposal was adopted. Furthermore, we have here Mr Votava's proposal for us to take note of paragraph 172, the State Final Account for 2016, the House Press 1106, because there is an obstacle and it is not possible to discuss it in order to exclude it from this meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 26, registered 165, for 150, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We also have a proposal from Mr Bohuslav Svoboda, who proposes to include the House Press 1086. This is an amendment to Act 95/2004 Coll., on Wednesday 28. 6. Since no vote has been successful on the nomination, this will be the first point of the afternoon negotiations. Initiating the captain's vote, who is in favour of this motion. Who's against the proposal? In the vote 27, 165 Members voted in favour of 76, against 54. This proposal has not been adopted. Furthermore, we have here Mr Martin Lank's proposal, which proposes item number 20, press 495, to exclude from this meeting. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? This is vote number 28, registered is 164 Members, for 145, against 4. This proposal was adopted. Finally, the last proposal put forward was the proposal by Vice-President Gazdík to include paragraph 103, House Press 1019 as the fourth item tomorrow... Since point number 5 of the Gremium has been agreed, so it will be after point number 5, for clarification, yes, to be included? [[Agreed.]] So it stays fourth, but point five is over, so we're clear. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? This is vote number 29, registered 164, for 73, against 28. This proposal was not adopted. And now we will vote on the whole proposal for the 59th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as tabled in writing, as amended by the amendments approved. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the draft agenda. Who's against it? 164 Members registered, for 100, against 3. This proposal has been adopted and I note that the agenda of the meeting has been approved. Before we proceed to discuss the bills rejected and returned by the Senate, I propose, at the request of the President of the Senate, to allow Senators Chmelová Chmelová and Jitka Seitlová, Senators Michael Canov, Jiří Dienstbier, Václav Chaloupek, Václav Lásek, Miroslav Nenutil, Jiří Růžička, Jaroslav Větrovskýý and Miloš Vystrčil in the Chamber of Deputies. Information on the Senate's amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees to the appearance of the appointed senators and senators to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? This is vote number 31. 164 Members registered, for 122, against 3. I note that this proposal has been approved. Before we proceed to discuss the next item, I'll read an apology. Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes for working reasons 27. 6 from 16.00 to the end of the date of the hearing. And now, before we proceed to the next item, I am handing over the meeting proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-001-999.u51	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Mrs Věra Kovářová cancels her apology today from 15.15. Let's move on to the first point of our program, and that's
