ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u1	64. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand /German press 1000/ - first reading This proposal was renegotiated on 6 April at the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that Mr Lubomír Zaorálek and Mr Matěj Fichtner take the position at the rapporteur's table. I ask about any speeches made by the appellant or the rapporteur, as appropriate. Not interested. And we will continue the interrupted general debate. They signed up for the word on 6. 4. at the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when Mr Leo Luzar's speech was suspended. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u2	Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin my speech to the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada. My first words may be a little outside of this treaty, but I will allow myself to speak to my honored colleagues on the right, the rest of my performance will rather be directed to the center and left. Let me introduce you to the challenge of fair trade. This challenge was signed by 17 small companies - here are their emblems - who are interested in what the world of commerce and trade agreements brings. This call for fair trade is dated 15 March 2017. It states: "We do not agree with the position of the European Union that the EU-US-CETA trade agreements should benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. On the contrary, we believe that the radical opening up of the market will be harmful for Czech small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, exports to the USA and Canada are currently less than 3% of the total volume. The weakening of the European trade area in favour of trade with the USA and Canada would thus have a serious negative impact on Czech production and employment. A high level of European social standards, environmental standards and democratic principles cannot be sacrificed to the interests of individual corporations on both sides of the Atlantic due to TTIP and CETA. They are just large multinational corporations that would gain benefits with agreements through investment protection or greater opening up of public procurement. All at the expense of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, the European Commission does not memoise and publish possible negative consequences of trade agreements for small and medium-sized enterprises only information that promotes the alleged advantages of contracts.' So much concern from representatives of small Czech traders and entrepreneurs, as they look at this treaty. Perhaps a colleague and a colleague on the right will be impressed. Elections are coming and many of the parties have the interests of small Czech businesses and entrepreneurs on the sign-up shield, at least at the top of the electoral programs. And this is not only about fighting small entrepreneurs against the alleged injustice of the state, but also against multinational corporations and large business entities. So much for an introduction to the situation that frames the CETA contract. Today, as I mentioned during the approval of the programme, this is a first reading of this Treaty, but by being quite incredibly placed on the agenda at a time when many of this House are no longer able to accept, I have nothing left but to introduce you to the first reading with reservations that I, not only the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, apply to this Treaty, but most of Europe's left-wing Europe. I emphasize left-wingers, and I will mostly talk to her. I have introduced the right-wing part to the challenge of entrepreneurs who look at it at the risk of the future from what is going to happen to them. In order not to be criticized for quoting Marxist lessons or materials prepared from these workshops, and believe me, it is quite a thrilling reading and I would recommend you to study this literature, I will limit myself to citing from the official material which has been processed and presented for this contract. This is the material of the Impact Study on the conclusion of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. It was developed by Technical University in Liberec. It has 150 pages in order. I won't read it all, don't worry, even though I was tempted, but I don't want to burden you. I really want to focus on those areas that are quite risky in this Treaty, and I want to draw your attention to things that may not even come to your mind in connection with this Treaty. Paradoxically, less than half an hour ago, the absent foreign minister here was piling on the benefits of this treaty, talking about how useful it is for the Czech Republic and that he would like to hear the arguments where it is not, why it is not. Unfortunately, he did so in the final words and it is not possible to respond to them in the debate, which he does for the second time, and I hope for the last time, even though he promised me that it was the last time. It didn't happen. I'll quote you from the Liberec study. A comprehensive agreement on economic and trade cooperation brings significant savings and efficiency in trade relations to all Contracting Parties, in particular in the field of customs, non-tariff barriers, trade, access to Canadian public procurement, protection of investment and the resolution of investment disputes in the process of product certification, mutual recognition of employee qualifications and access to the market for business purposes. According to the impact study prepared by Colin Kirkpatrick's team, CETA will contribute to economic growth in Europe in order - Minister, if you are on speakerphone, listen - by 0.1 to 0.2 percentage points. This is the huge benefit for the Czech Republic and the European Union from this Treaty! Canada shall contribute 0,18 to 0.36 percentage points. So a slightly unbalanced approach, Canada simply makes more money than the European Union. The estimated effects on economic growth in the Czech Republic are negligible. Those are the beautiful words, Minister, as you have hoisted here, as it is a great success, beneficial to the Czech Republic. It can be assumed that given the marginal importance of Canada as a Czech business and investment partner, CETA will increase the Czech economy's gross domestic product by between 0.0052 and 0,0072 percentage points. That's an asset! I can't even imagine. The estimated impact on price levels and inflation is around 0.001 percentage point. The wages of qualified employees will rise - Minister, listen: the wages of qualified employees will rise by 0.0042 percent. It will grow, Minister of Foreign Affairs! These are the benefits you have been talking about here, and that you want to hear the arguments that are against this treaty! How this will help Czech employees! So listen up: 0.0042 percent. While the impact on unqualified labour wages is sporadic. Overall, Czech exports of goods and services will rise by 0.012% after the adoption of the CETA agreement by - ladies and gentlemen. Total Czech imports by 0,0006 %. We'll help each other. These are the words of Minister Zaorálek when he spoke in his final speech, which cannot be responded to, about how beneficial this is for the Czech economy, how beneficial it is for the Czech working man. [[16.10 hours]] This report notes that a generous reduction of customs duties and non-tariff barriers to trade between the European Union and Canada will have a positive impact on the Czech economy with very little real consequences. Czech exporters save CZK 103 million per year on import duties to Canada, on non-tariff barriers estimated an additional CZK 77 to 109 million per year. Canadian importers save 86 million per year on customs duties, saving on non-tariff barriers will be between CZK 34 million and CZK 48 million. However, estimates of non-tariff barriers do not include all indirect costs such as time delays and temporary personnel costs. As a result of reduced tariff and non-tariff barriers, exports of goods from the Czech Republic to Canada will increase by 17 to 23 percent. A significant increase in the Czech export of goods to Canada as a result of the removal of customs barriers following the entry into force of CETA can be expected, in particular, for export commodities where an obligation is imposed to pay customs duties or to face non-tariff barriers, which will be significantly eliminated after the entry into force of the CETA Agreement. If you are interested in sectoral breakdown, this is mainly the growth of Czech exports to Canada in the food industry, there are between 50 and 54 %, textile from 76 to 78 %, mechanical and electrical engineering by 20 to 28 percent, automotive by 28 to 31 percent and chemical by 24 to 36 percent. A significant drop in Czech exporters to Canada is likely to threaten no Czech export industry in connection with the CETA agreement. Imports of Canadian production into the Czech Republic are likely to increase by up to a third, especially in food and textile sectors. However, the trade balance of the Czech Republic with Canada remains significantly surplus. Implementation of the CETA agreement, according to the results of the model and sectoral analyses, should not affect the economy of the Czech Republic negatively, the liberalisation of foreign trade, albeit as a distant and marginal partner, will contribute to an effective allocation of resources. Here I want to point out that the percentages refer to the numbers in thousands of percent of the total volume. So if you have one thousandth and it rises by 50 percent, remember how much this export really takes. So much for an interesting quote. Allow me now a little bit of enlightenment, which also results from the Treaty between Canada and the European Union. You have an idea, and many of you do, I won't want to lecture you on the size of Canada. We perceive the American continent, we perceive a large area between the United States, we see Canada as a unique big country. On the globe, it's one huge green area with the proud sign of Canada. The Canadian market has 36 million inhabitants. 36 million. Twice, three times bigger, three times bigger than the Czech Republic. From this business point of view, a really marginal market. Note what steps have been taken to bring this Treaty into force. What preceded it? For seven years, the position of the European Union has been negotiated under the agreement with Canada. It says here that some progress has been made in removing technical barriers to trade through investment disputes, protection of intellectual property and copyright, sustainable development, equal access to public contracts, up to mechanisms for mutual conclusion of employee qualifications and product testing results. That makes one of the conclusions in this treaty sound more optimistic. CETA is the best and most comprehensive agreement that the European Commission has ever negotiated for the Member States of the European Union. 00,000 percent. That's what I call a bargain. Let me briefly characterize the CETA contract. Superlatives. In this context, CETA does not reduce the importance of European Union legislation, alter it and lead to a change, reduction or elimination of European Union standards in any of the regulated areas. All imports from Canada will have to comply with the rules and regulations of the European Union, such as technical regulations, product standards, sanitary rules, food safety regulations and health, safety, rules on genetically modified organisms, environmental protection, consumer protection. Yes, it is true that what they pay will be true. But this treaty prohibits any further regulation. And that's the problem I'm going to get back to. So what we have in the law we are able to defend. But how many things you remember today, colleagues and colleagues, are that we would still like to regulate. The term "regulating," let's say, is too extensive, but we're trying to intervene in it by law and somehow restrict it, somehow adjust it. This treaty will prevent us from doing so. This treaty will forbid us. This treaty will impose great sanctions. I will draw attention to that in the next parts of my speech. This is nice when it says here: the CETA agreement will not force or lead governments to privatise or deregulation of public services such as water supply, health care, social services and education. [[The speaker claps.]] Let's hear it. I'll repeat. The CETA Agreement will not force or lead governments to privatise or deregulation of public services. But the opposite. What if we want to regulate? What if we want to privatize or deprivatize? Then we won't be able to. This Treaty prohibits this. Here I am already turning to the left of this honourable House, and as I have already told the right that we have elections ahead of us and that many of the right-wing parties have the interests of small entrepreneurs in their electoral programs, so many left-wing parties have the interests of left-wing voters in their electoral programs. And the words that I mentioned here are quite placed in these programmes in honest places, so I would be very interested to see how colleagues from the left would like to stress to their constituents why they would not be able to fulfill what they were promised by the CETA agreement. They will probably do exactly the same as they did in their vows four years ago, when electoral programs were full of electoral passwords, and after four years, we find that objective reasons and coalition partners prevent us from fulfilling our promises. This is where we will learn in four years that objective reasons and the international treaty CETA of the evil European Union prevent us from fulfilling our electoral promises. I'm here to draw attention to these mistakes and to these things that this treaty contains, and I'll be glad if it may come to the proper directions and heads of thought and it will contribute to thinking about what this CETA actually is. [[16.20 hours]] I would like to quote a few more economic figures because I know that there is quite a large area of economists represented here, and I will quote the economic effects of the CETA agreement on the Czech Republic. Yes, there is talk about the European Union, there has been a lot of talk about the interests of Czech economic operators. Again, I warn you that this is not a fiction of left-wing theorists, but a serious study by the Technical University in Liberec - perhaps the honor of their memory, I do not know, but I hope that next time they will also receive such a contract to analyse such contracts. Because they've done a really good job and deserved to be appreciated. Canada is on the list of countries according to the gross domestic product in purchasing power parity established by the World Bank on the 17th place. Its aggregate economic performance is 1 588 billion. USD and is comparable to Spain. Three quarters compared to Italy, 60% compared to France or Great Britain and roughly two fifths compared to Germany. According to this indicator, the Czech economy is 4.7 times smaller than the Canadian economy. In the parity of purchasing power is 339 billion. USD, the EU-wide gross domestic product amounts to 19 138 billion. USD. What leads such a huge economic moloch to conclude such a special contract? I'm not saying it's a disadvantage, I'm saying a special contract with such a small economic dwarf. Why? That will be a question that I may ask a little more often than many listeners would like. Gross exports from Canada to the Czech Republic represent 0,06% of Canada's total gross exports. In other words, Canada is trading with the Czech Republic at 0.06% - Minister, again with the numbers you wanted to hear. Gross imports from the Czech Republic to Canada are then 0.11% of the total Canadian gross imports. So for Canada, we're a really marginal importer. It's also caused by the geographical distance, let's see what's behind it. Interesting is the figure - the share of Canadian commodities in total imports of the European Union is only 1.6%, approximately 27 billion. EUR. Over the last ten years, with the exception of 2011, the external trade balance has always been surplus to the European Union. This is where I'd see Canada's motivation. Yes, that's why Canada and the Canadian government have such a move on the net to accept this treaty. He wants to improve his trade balance completely logically. That's what we want, too. But why do we, who benefit from this in quotation marks, accept such a contract and actually take future benefits and get rid of it? Why again? There's been talk of customs duties. It was an interesting figure. Customs duties on other goods are already very low. The European Union customs duties on Canadian imports represent approximately 1,94 per cent of the value of imported Canadian goods, while the Canadian customs duties on goods from the European Union amount on average to 2,42 per cent of the value of imported products. These figures speak for themselves about how advantageous this treaty is, as has been said here. I'd say marginally advantageous. If this is a savings from 2.4 percentage points to 2.2, 2.1% points - I would say that is the statistical deviation of seasonal imports or exports. Yet it is stressed as a basic move on the goal, as a basic premise, why we have to conclude the contract. Canada will allow us to import and export without customs duties and save. Yes, we will, but it's really a marginal percentage of total numbers that isn't involved. As you can see, I'm skipping pages. [[He's browsing the news pages.]] I really don't want to quote from the 150-page analysis, but I just want to introduce you to the things that I think are important. In the field of public procurement, which opens the Canadian market up to the provincial level and declares transparent and non-discriminatory access to public procurement, which gives European and, in turn, Czech candidates better access to public procurement than, for example, NAFTA participants. Beautiful statement. I would add that this is one of the reasons why NAFTA is currently inoperable and why the US President wants to review NAFTA. And if you have a long-term contract with your business partners on the American continent, called NAFTA, and you cooperate - and perhaps conveniently, when it is presented to us - and now you are going to enter into a competitive agreement with the European Union under conditions which are disadvantageous to the existing contract you have with your long-term partners - isn't that a bit of a backstabbing between the NAFTA partners that Canada is demonstrating? We wouldn't mind. The question is how the two partners, that is, Mexico and the United States, will look at this and how they will regulate their barriers to the European Union and imports when Canada wants to favour the European Union against its historic and traditional partners on the same continent. These are questions of thought, and they may convince someone that this treaty has a completely different purpose than what is declared to us. Interestingly, in the chapter of the cross-border trade in services in CETA, the area of audiovisual services, the area of copyright in general, it puts us in a line with pirát, who have this area quite well processed. That's why I don't want to sneak into their election program. But I must tell them that yes, they are not alone in this area of copyright, who are afraid of this transatlantic agreement. In addition to the fact that the European Union excludes audiovisual services and Canada excludes the cultural industry, financial services and air transport services are also excluded from the scope of this Chapter with several essential exceptions, such as ground handling, marketing, repair and maintenance of aircraft, reservation system services. In other words, and I'm going to get to that when I discuss the contract itself -- let me point out that we're still on that study right now -- this contract is then separate, and it's licked pretty good, so I'm going to get to it. There's an exception. This treaty is in one third of this union. The rest of this volume is the exceptions to this Treaty which individual Member States of the European Union have negotiated. The reason they did so - I will talk about this when I discuss this material. In my opinion, the Czech Republic has fallen asleep here and cheated on the future, which will no longer be able to be corrected if we approve this treaty. I'm gonna get on with this. What I consider to be a certain thing, perhaps the red thread, which is the need for this Treaty and which is also found in the TTIP Treaty, is the provision concerning investment, in particular Articles 8.10, 8.111, 8.12, 8.13, 8.14, 8.16 and 8.17. Those articles have the name of the treatment of investors and of investments included, compensation for damage, expropriation, transfers, transfer of rights, refusal of benefits and formal requirements. [[16.30 hours]] I could theoretically end up here and tell you that that's the basis, that's the engine that's in that contract like the red thread, like I said before, intersecting. Of course, it is said that the sustainability of WTO rules is being confirmed. I see a certain thing here, perhaps geopolitical, here a colleague of the Minister of Foreign Affairs will surely comment on this matter. The world has reached a certain level of global trade agreements. There are states that have decided to move it a little further at the expense of those who have already reached that level, creating constantly new and new stairs to separate the equals and the more equals. So that you can keep saying - well, if you're gonna be like this and you're gonna get one more step, and you're gonna be with us again, but just for a second, because we're gonna move a little further, and you're gonna have to follow us and behind us... The so-called endless battle of division. This could be where the class struggle parallel could have been used, but it's more about business, about money. And you'll all give me the truth that where there's money, good manners go away. Business is a very tough business. The instrument of commitments and reservations is quite an interesting matter and concerns what I have said, that if it is not dealt with in this Treaty, it will be very difficult to replace. Unlike the WTO - GATS Service Agreement, which contains so-called positive list, CETA applies the negative list approach. While the positive list contains only those areas and measures in which participants are ready to adopt liberalisation, in a negative list, all areas which are not explicitly listed may, in principle, be subject to liberalisation. This is the first time this point appears in international treaties. It's the first time and it's groundbreaking, because the TTIP doesn't apply, as we all know when someone is trying to enforce this restriction again. And what's it about, translated into human talk? This current state of affairs that we have is preserved and any other restrictions are out of the question. While the positive one is - in the current knowledge of the economy, we have agreed, if something new comes, we will discuss it, we will look for ways and we can apply regulation. This will be forbidden. Thus, any idea of our social left that, after the approval of this Treaty, it will be able to regulate the market area e.g. water supply, e.g. Health, if we approve of CETA... It won't. Forget it. I'm telling you with all due respect. Because any international concern that has ownership of these funds in the territory of the European Union will suffice to drive us to arbitration courts. And that's gonna be a huge problem. And if you look at the cases of arbitration of the Czech Republic, which are spread around various ministries, only the Ministry of Finance has a pretty clear table of arbitrations as to where we stand. Everyone else is dealing with it somehow. Unfortunately, the worst part is the Ministry of Health, but there it has its roots deep, deeply embedded. So I'll do it again. This positive list and negative list is one of the basic principles of the disaster of the CETA contract. This is the first time anyone has tried to apply the negative list in these international bilateral agreements. That is why, in its two thirds of thickness, the treaty also contains reservations about the current regulatory measures, whether they are laws or other provisions. I repeat, the reservations of the whole of the 27 Europeans, each of them has put something in there. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic has put very, very little there. Paradoxically, food industry. Then I'll quote from geographical indications and protection. Here's some beautiful stuff from the Ministry of Industry and Trade on protected brands, so we can tear it up like this. [[shows]] Because only two are protected. On this fat list, two or three are applied here in this contract. I'll tell you exactly what this is about. It's just local Czech beer and hops. Everyone else is unlucky to invest in protecting their brands. They'll be unlucky. I'll continue to read specific companies in my speech, hopefully they'll hear this record, and they'll wake up a little bit, that their interests, in which they've invested a few funds, are threatened here. I would also like to quote Annex 2, which contains restrictions on future measures - reservations for future measures to enable more discriminatory regulations or revisions of former deregulations to be implemented. Both Annexes contain European Union reservations and follow the Member States' reservations. The Canadian Party has placed more than 180 reservations at the provincial level in Annex 1, which contains the Canadian reservations. They relate, for example, to: the provision of veterinary, audit services, distribution of spirits, gambling, forestry, community services, mining services, investments in the context of the nomination of senior management and board of directors, the operation of energy facilities. All the people you do in these fields, and you're going to think CETA will help you in the Canadian market, you can forget about it. Canada has reserved the possibility of blocking in this area. There are 11 reservations on the European level as a whole. 180 - 11. Canada 36 mil. population, 180 reservations - the European Union half a billion, 11 only. This applies mainly to rail, inland, water transport, air transport support services, research services, development under framework programmes, health and social care, education, agriculture, uniform regulation on the common organisation of the market, accounting auditing services, postal services and customs clearance services. Industry protection, unfortunately the protection of our economy is not among them. What is interesting is the reservations of the Czech Republic regarding the provision of legal services. So Canadian law firms will not be able to provide legal services in the Czech Republic. You could say who cares. But the law firms certainly do, they don't want competition. Employment issue. It was said here that the Czech labour market would grow. Today, when we have low unemployment, for which we can thank, that is true, the question is how it will grow, because in the case of investors employed by an enterprise, a work permit is required, including an economic need test for all sectors. In other words, the investor will be limited in the workforce. Internship must be linked to the higher education that the intern has completed. Persons employed within a company must be employed by an undertaking which is not a non-profit organisation. That's the only point I'd quite welcome. Nonprofit organizations have branched out quite a bit in our territory. But I don't know how nonprofit organizations that start with us and are on the rise in the provision of social services and other services, educational, community, cultural, I can't remember everyone right away, they're going to have a pretty serious problem with this contract. [[16.40 hours]] Other people who have a problem are travel agencies and delegates. It is often said that this House mainly addresses Prague's problems. Prague circuit, exception of Prague. Well, Prague is the capital, the most populous city. He has specific problems. And one of the major problems of Prague is that it is really a tourist power. I'm sure you'll all be right about that. What is the problem of Prague as a tourist superpower is the provision of the services of delegates, in other words guides, after Prague untrained guides. There are countries in those exceptions that were watching it. We don't. In other words, on the basis of this treaty, delegates from other countries will be able, without having to meet any conditions of knowledge of the site, history and others, to simply provide these services to delegates. Again one small business area, very important in Prague, in other regions of the Republic less significant, which will fall victim to the CETA contract. But perhaps for us, for Prague, irrelevant to the Republic. As far as the definition of investment is concerned, it is said here that investment aid must only be part of the investor. In other words, you cannot be represented in an investment. This means that nothing changes for Canadian companies operating directly in the Czech Republic. If the Czech company wants to do business in Canada, it must be represented by itself, its mother. He may set up a branch there, but he will not be subject to the possibilities that the CETA contract is supposed to offer. What I'm aiming for, and what's one of the biggest problems in my eyes with CETA, is protecting investment. That's what that proverbial red thread line is all about this material. The fact that the party carries out the regulation, even by amending its legislation in a way that adversely affects investment or interferes with the investor's expectations, even with regard to its expectations of profit, does not constitute a breach under this Section. I specifically stressed that, because this seems to be an argument against my words. But it's explicitly expressed. Duplicately, if you look into the details, you'll find it's not that far off. Especially if you study in the next material the procedure to deal with it. Addressing investment disputes between investor and state in CETA. I stress by the investor and by the state, because according to this contract, it will already be the negative partner in the court case, or thus in the commercial case it will be. It won't be a county. It won't be a community. It'll be a cost that'll have to take that risk. The investor, if he wants to invest or when it's agreed, the municipality will build a change in the zoning plan, or I don't know what the municipalities have legally within the scope of regulation, the investor will not sue them for a failed investment, but the state. That's the exception that CETA brings that investor's partner is the state. So far, it hasn't. The dispute settlement between the investor and the State shall be entrusted to the Tribunal and, where appropriate, to an appeal tribunal composed of judges appointed by the Contracting Parties. The dispute should be settled in an amicable manner. If the parties do not agree within 60 days of the request, the court shall consult. Ottawa, Brussels. Capital of a Member State of the European Union. Consultations may also be conducted through videoconferencing. The Parties may agree at any time to use mediation, mediation. The intermediary shall be appointed in agreement with the parties to the dispute or may request the intermediary to be appointed by the Secretary-General of the International Centre for the Settlement of Investment Disputes of the World Bank. This article or paragraph sounds pretty good before you realize business practice. The basic practice of American companies, European companies less, but especially those of the oceans is that the dispute is taking place on their territory. I met with more smaller companies in the Czech Republic that said yes, we will definitely win the dispute. But the costs that we have in terms of representation and travel are so high that if we win this thing, that profit is zero for us and we're in loss. We just have an honest feeling that we were right. It's a fairly common commercial practice in business law. I held a seminar on this topic on the House of Honor, where the lawyer of international law, a sales representative who performs these services for Czech companies, referred to this as a great risk. And unfortunately, he's right. But it's not much to discuss, because the experts who do this in international trade law are very few, and their voice often doesn't reach the Ministry of Industry and Trade. In other words, it remains at the discretion of the Contracting Party in order to allow for videoconferencing. That's the problem, because the video conferencing will save, but if the party doesn't allow it, you can't do it. And that's the bad luck this CETA is putting in place. If it were ordered there in terms of the effectiveness of dispute resolution, it would theoretically be good, but by building it on this basis, we get into a blind corner. In accordance with Article 8.18 of the CETA Agreement, actions relating to the extension of an investment may only be brought to the extent that the measures concerned relate to the upcoming business activity. If the dispute is not resolved amicably, the action may be brought under ICSID, UNCITRAL arbitration or other rules agreed upon by both parties. The Joint Committee shall appoint five members from the Member States of the European Union, five members from Canada, five members from third States, after the entry into force of the CETA. This is the element that was pointed out by a fellow lawyer who dealt with it. The purpose of the Tribunal and its position as defined in this Treaty precludes the power of law quickly, because they are paid from time to time. The longer they talk about it, the more they get the resources, and nothing forces them to accelerate these disputes, on the contrary. They're appointed outside those members of the dispute, which means they're interested in speeding it up, but they're not, they're out, they can't influence them. And they're paid very well. They're even part of the contract and the table as to how much such a judge will accept, so he'll earn. If I were a lawyer, I'd probably be applying for this kind of business. So these judges will become those arbiters who will say: dear state, pay because you have violated CETA in the protection of investment, you have violated CETA by your regulation of an industry that you should not have regulated. And that is one of the main problems of this treaty. The CETA Agreement includes the provision of more stringent enforcement of intellectual property rights, including the liability of Internet service providers and the prohibition of technologies that may be used to circumvent copyright. The European Union has succeeded in promoting the following priority areas. I'm not reading them. But that's another reason why the CETA was linked and pushed through Europe after the collapse of the TTIP and ACTA agreements. In other words ACTA has returned to this agreement in a slightly different form, slightly disguised, but it is here. And if you remember the Europe-wide demonstration of young people against ACTA agreement, yes, there were lit cars, yes, there were other indecencies, but yet millions of demonstrations that went through European cities, about which Czech television did not even reflect or comment, were simply on the edge of interest, are returning here to this treaty. They come back, they stay hidden, but they're here, and it's a pretty big problem for the future. [[16.50 hours]] And if all the political parties in this House are thinking of a policy for the young, even some have tried to turn the political party towards youth for a while, then they have backed out of it, but they have tried, so this treaty is directed directly against the efforts and visions of the young world under copyright law. And many of them remember what ACTA was, and many of them will see what CETA will do to the copyright market. Canada and the States of the European Union undertake to take into account the technical provisions of the other Party. When preparing a new technical regulation relating to motor vehicles and their components or amending an existing Regulation, the Party shall take into account the technical regulations of the other Party. Furthermore, the Parties recognise that they have a common interest in cooperating with the United States of America in the field of technical regulations relating to motor vehicles. Here you see, in this one paragraph, the strength of the group, the strength of capital, the power of car manufacturers who manage at least the economy of the Czech Republic, if not the economy of Europe. They've taken their exceptions into account, they're keeping an eye on their status quo, they're keeping an eye on it so that the free trade in cars can continue and work. The United States also adds to this, and yet this treaty does not concern the United States at all, yet even for them in the CETA agreement they give this exception, allowing the TTIP to fail. So the creators of this contract are trying to upload a small house to those who might actually benefit the most, namely car manufacturers, as if Škoda Auto weren't driving on the Canadian market, as if it weren't doing well there, and as if from the 0.004 percentage point it wasn't mostly the credit of Škoda Auto. I will not burden you with the impacts of the CETA agreement on the Czech economy according to selected sectors. The impacts are shown here, but given the marginal extent of the economic trade agreement on the Czech economy these impacts are not quantified, they really range in the order of 0.0 percent. As regards the protection of the Canadian market mentioned here, it is mainly dairy products. That might interest our farmers. Canada has reserved the right to simply not deliver milk. If we think we're gonna get rid of overproduction of milk in Europe, we're not gonna get rid of it. Canada has reserved this and not just milk. Chicken, turkey, eggs and egg products. Canada protects its market, 36 million people, that's the potential of voters that the Canadian government doesn't want to anger, and that's why it protects its agricultural market. We only protect beef and pork, canned corn. So let's say that canned corn, I don't know how much the Czech Republic produces, possibly. The European Union, but I think we feel the need to protect it. So I am not quite sure what the European Union will get out of this. Here's the interesting information I'm gonna get from talking about trademarks. Canada has also recognised intellectual property under Chapter 20 and has undertaken to protect 179 geographical indications for products originating in the European Union pursuant to Article 2 of the Agreement on trade aspects of intellectual property rights, so-called TRIPS. These are Czech geographical indications - please fanfares - about harvest hops and Czech beer. The only two trade marks to be protected under this Agreement overseas. All these others - from the fire pipes, the Olomouc Syrians, I don't know which ones I can think of next, the different kinds of beer, the beer, the beer and the others, somewhere I have it as a table, the apple glass, the beer and others, and surely there will be experts from the regions who tell me which I forgot all of them will remain unprotected. The only thing that will be protected is the hops and Czech beer. Here I ask why the Ministry of Industry and Trade, when it participated in the preparation of this Treaty, did not use its options as other European Union countries, I warn you, because the European Union has put in 179 protected brands, most Germany and other countries, from cheese and salami and I do not know everything, and the Czech Republic, which was proud of the enrichment of the European market by Czech products, has only put in two. And if you think you'll be able to refill it, no. Liberalization, i.e. maybe just a statement that you don't want to, but instead put something on that restrictive list, those are the exceptions I'm talking about will not be possible. And it will be a very problem and quite interesting how our exporters will profit from it and how our owners of trademarks and stamps will work. As far as alcohol exporters are concerned, they will have to continue trading separately in Canada with monopoly importers of a government company in each province, with the exception of Alberta. In the province of Alberta you can drink freely, not in others. And if Czech alcohol exports think that they will penetrate the Canadian market more significantly, they can forget it. Another segment of the Czech industry, which, thanks to the CETA administrative agreement, will be excluded from business and will have to comply with Canadian regulations, although it is said in this agreement that it is beneficial that it will allow entry to markets and that it will allow continued economic development. Once again, I'm stressing - 0,000. This brings me slowly to the conclusion of the first part of my performance, in which I speak from the technical report of the University of Liberec, which made an opponent of the CETA contract. [[Laughing in the hall]] I would like to conclude this report with one of the paragraphs - and I would like to quote. The Platform for Implementation of the Agreement shall be the committees of representatives of the European Union and Canada for each area of the CETA Agreement composed of independent experts from both Parties. Many effects on the removal of non-tariff barriers, as well as on investment and public procurement and services, depend on their implementation in the period following the entry into force of the CETA Agreement. - In other words, I draw attention again to the problem that we do not yet have in the law by decrees and regulations, we will not be able to solve in the future. And it's gonna be a big deal. And there are quite a lot of areas where we want to regulate in the future. [[17,00 hours]] That is why it is important - I quote further - that the Czech Republic should be involved either through its professional and interest associations and chambers, national certification bodies, but also at the level of state administration and diplomacy in the implementation of the agreement measures and actively seek representation in the CETA committees. In this respect, it is important to follow the current challenges of international trade with Canada etc., etc. I would like to know how the Czech executive tried to engage in the negotiations of the CETA agreement, these professional, interest associations and chambers, national certification authorities and so on. Because if they have not yet participated in this and are not listed in the exceptions to this Treaty, they are unlucky. And if you think that the CETA Treaty only concerns the opening up of the Canada - European Union market, yes, that is what it sounds like in the title. But in the context of global trade, nothing prevents any company, even Czech, from having a mother in Canada and enjoying the benefits of the CETA contract in its favour. And the downsides will go to the state. Because, according to the contract, CETA is a partner of an investor who asserts his claims on the state and not on who caused it to him. So much partial quote from Technical University in Liberec. I highly recommend reading it in detail. There's a lot of graphs, tables, calculations. It's worth it, and the analysis really is quite interesting. And maybe every trade agreement, unless it's strictly about friendship, should be equipped with such accompanying material. Thank you to this Technical University in Liberec. I hope it's not the kiss of death. A call for fair trade. That's what I've been talking about. I'm sure you can see why there are so many small companies that are afraid of this CET, because they're trading commodities, when the CETA is going to cause them big problems. We will now proceed to the main one with regard to the comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada. That's her. [[It shows a strong file.]] This agreement, on which we are to comment and at first reading send it - a pity, also to the foreign committee, to which I am a member. I'd like to leave this to another committee. There are reservations. Reservations to the treaty and I will try to draw attention to some of the reservations that may be up to date, and as I have already mentioned about those trademarks that are one of such problems in nature to me, because they concern my region as well, and such Stramber ears and my favourite Olomouc Syrians, I can forget them. What is interesting, however, is that most European countries - with the exception of the Czech Republic - protect their transport market. We were discussing here a while ago, pretty stormy, if I recall, the new Taxi Service Act and all that. It's not up to my field, I'm sure my transport colleagues will tell me what it was all about. But one of the things that was quite strongly discussed there is so-called. shared economy. Quite modern expression, quite popular expression in the economy and a lot related to Industry 4.0. New ways of understanding the economy, new ways of using machines at the expense of people's work, new ways of financial progress, new ways of evaluating work. And in discussing this law, there was quite a serious discussion about how to defend ourselves against - in quotation marks - unfair competition. In quotation marks because she is actually not unfair, she is based on the principle of easing the economy, releasing the market in options. We are somehow treated in the law, and now it is said that it should be clearly defined and adapted so that the law cannot be interpreted differently. Here I want to draw the attention of the kind Minister of Transport, or the Ministry of Transport, rather hurry. Because if they don't make this law in time before the CETA contract is effective, they're out of luck. They won't be able to regulate. And the companies that operate on that market today, and I will not quote them here, but which use the principle of a shared economy, will be riding. Because the state will not be able to regulate when it starts - and I deliberately asked where these companies are based. And they are mostly foreign, usually transnational, and for them it is no problem to move the seat to Canada and take advantage of CETA so that they can sue the Czech Republic for obstruction in free enterprise. And that's gonna be a problem. And that's one of the disciplines that's up to date. 'Cause I'm saying, 14 days ago, we had a pretty big debate about it. This problem is proving to be a new problem. CETA, by creating seven years, so you will surely recognize that the problems of Industry 4.0 could not be regulated, did not know them. That's logical. That is why I am concerned that the petitioners of this treaty are not at all considering that it is worth opening up this issue. Today, social partners in tripartite are having very serious debates about how to regulate Industry 4.0. How to prevent people from getting under the poverty line as unnecessary, but they had some principles of cooperation or co-operation in Industry 4.0. Looking for a way of tax systems, application. There is a quest, say, for regulation in certain fields and areas. If the CETA Treaty comes into force, my dear friends, you can forget about it. I'm bohužel so. One of those who quite understand this is some of the countries of the European Union, which, although the petitioners say to us that this does not concern us, do not worry, it is different, so they have put it into exceptions. Maybe some states have put the taxi service on the side of the road. I'd rather. Just in case. They're probably not completely stupid, and they know, because they already have that experience with shared services, so they put it there, that they'll continue to regulate them, and very hard, and test whether they're needed or not. Even the capital of Brussels went so far as to take it directly that it wanted to test the need for these services for a number of citizens and citizens using these services. All the more striking is that our representatives did not consult on the presentation of this material, or possibly. in its preparation, this issue within the framework of the European Parliament. This was the land where this Treaty was quite extensive in the committees of the European Parliament and reservations were discussed in detail. And many, which are in these exceptions, I reiterate, the broad bique, were created precisely from the initiatives that came out of the European Commissions and from the discussions in the European Parliament, its committees and bodies. It is quite interesting that, after studying these materials, left-wing MEPs across the European Union have come to believe that CETA is not. That it is against the left's social charter, that it is against the social perception of the world as the left sees it. But the Czech Republic has the strongest left side in the government. [[17.10 hours]] I ask colleagues from social democracy: What are your consultative lines with colleagues in the European Parliament? Everyone there, if I use an expression like one man, was against it. And they had strong arguments about why they didn't support CET. I ask, have they consulted you on this matter? Are you on the same ship of social democratic perception of the meaning of Europe, or have you accepted government responsibility with everything, which means denying your left hand? It's a question that points to the left spectrum, and I've already addressed the right with the concerns of entrepreneurs. I address the left spectrum by saying that the European Left in this Treaty sees mainly legal breakthrough, it sees in it that it wants to limit the possibility of classical legal protection in favour of multinationals with the possibility of suing the state and in favour of those who can afford it. Let's just afford it. I will not quote here from the materials prepared by colleagues from the European Parliament, because I believe that the following speeches will point to this issue and will introduce you to the reservations that have been raised in the European Parliament. I can only conclude by saying the exceptions that may have bothered me the most. Here is a list of products that are protected, the 179 EU products, of which the Czech Republic has only two - zatec hops and Czech beer. I consider it one of the biggest mistakes. And if just because we didn't protect our traditional products, I would ask you to consider whether you really want to support this treaty and take on, as they say, our shirt by damaging the interests of Czech producers, Czech companies that protect and proclaim the glory of Czech food, or we don't care. I don't care, and that's why I can't vote for CET. The other arguments, and I say, I have here and I could start now, but I will leave something to my colleagues to talk about also what impact it will have on environmental protection, what impact it will have on the protection of our agriculture, but I will not talk about it. I'll say one thing. What I have heard from a legal expert who deals with commercial international law and his explanation at the seminar that was said to CETA entitles me to say that this is the main reason why CETA is a Cetou and why it is presented as the very first new business contract of such a type. This is an attempt by multinationals to penetrate a market that is regulated by law. They are just tired of respecting the laws of individual countries that they are tired of taking into account the interests of the citizens of individual states, or if so. Europe's interests. They want absolute liberalisation of trade. And paradoxically, it's not Canadian companies. These are also European companies, which, thanks to this treaty, finally get rid of the shackles that have been given over the 50 years of economic development from individual EU Member States, and this, this CETA Treaty, is just the way to hack legal protection in the European area. And let's keep this in mind when we vote on it. Everything else can be considered a ballast, but it is a legal breakthrough in the context of investment protection, in the context of business-related matters and law, that is the most important thing CETA presents and what we should be particularly careful about. Thank you for your attention. I hope I didn't tire you out too much, and if there are any more questions, I'll take advantage of the facts, possibly. I'm going to join the debate one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to the Minister, I'll read the apologies. Mr Benešík apologizes from 17 to 18 for working reasons, Mr Pražák from 18 o'clock for health reasons and Vice-President Bartošek from 17 o'clock for working reasons. And now, therefore, the de facto remark made by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I will not appeal to the left and right, I will appeal only to common sense. I will not appeal to elections because every point can be politicised, as well as the EU-Canada Treaty. My predecessor managed to put us to sleep rather than politicize. However, I would like to emphasise the two important points that this Treaty brings. One. It allows small and medium-sized companies access to the Canadian public procurement market. That's a big difference from the contract that's been on ice so far, and that's the so-called contract. The TTIP between the EU and the United States, where the regulation is not at federal level, is at national level, even ammunition. So our small and medium-sized companies can enter the public procurement market. That's very important. The second very important thing is diversification. The Czech economy, which depends very much on the EU, especially on Germany and the automotive industry, needs diversification, and Canada is a big market that is opening up to us through this Treaty. This is important, and that is why this contract is the first swallow for the Czech economy, which is very important, and I think we should accept it without hesitation. Cliché about the interests of multinational corporations I will not comment on, this is more of my previous speaker's property. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u5	If, in fact, Mr Luzar? Please, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Through you to Minister Pilný. I'm glad my speech allowed him to sleep. On the other hand, I believe that entrepreneurs covered by the CETA Treaty will remember very well when this contract is in force, and he assumes that it will be true, unlike me, that they will start to confront the practical implementation and impact of this Treaty. And I mentioned those numbers here at first. Maybe the minister slept really hard. These are the order of 0.004, 0.002 percentage point, or marginal business interests, which are really almost zero within the trade of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u7	Next, Mr Klán, who is duly applied for, will be prepared by Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. My colleague here spoke for an hour and something. Don't worry, I won't talk for an hour, maybe longer. I'm kidding, but I've been asked to speak for at least half an hour on the subject of CETA. I'll take it from another end, though. I'm not going to say the exact numbers, the exact effects, but I'm going to take it from a sociological point of view. The theory that I will present here is how a multinational capitalist elite through multinational capitalist private corporations forms different free trade zones, the various agreements that establish free trade zones. When we look at it from a historical point of view, the concept of a multinational corporation is quite old, it already comes from the 13th century, but the concept of a corporation is from the 20th century. In particular, the influence of corporations only began to grow in the late 1980's under Margaret Thatcherová and Ronaldo Reagan, when they started the full deregulation of all the market, that is, the concept of laissez-faire is now called, the free hand of the market, just let the market do what it wants, and the market solves what it wants according to this logic. That's why the CETA contract. CETA is, if we put it into this logic, a contract of multinational corporations, specifically the capitalist elite that wants to control the whole world. We're going to develop this theory here, of course. I'm gonna develop it for you in half an hour, at least briefly, what things are lurking in that CETA. [[17.20 hours]] But let's start by saying some things, such as the first ten multinational capitalist corporations that often have a turnover higher than national states. That is why they have an even greater influence, and they are gaining more and more influence. And contracts of the TTIP type, even if there is a little bit on the ice, lightly, or TTP, or just see the CETA contract. Of course, we can also include the North American free trade zone NAFTA. I will draw from it and point to the problems that occurred at the time when these treaties were formed and put into life. I will draw from Noreena Hertzová's publication, which wrote the book Sneaky Revolution. The book is from 2000, when these theories of global capitalism were just being formed, and they can be well applied to the present time and to this agreement, in the economic and trade agreement between Canada and the EU. If we look at the list of multinational corporations, at the top of the list, someone might be surprised, someone doesn't, we're finding Walmart. This company has an annual turnover of $400 billion. That was, like, seven years ago. So today, the profits have grown disproportionately. When we look at how Walmart climbed to these heights, it was precisely deregulation of the markets, deregulation of the markets in the United States. There, she even purposefully liquidated her competition by selling things below price for a certain period of time so that it could destroy the competition and then raise the prices. That is why, to this day, Walmart, as a company with a huge spread, is on the first rung, still on the first rung in 2017. Then, of course, there are, for example, Chinese companies, energy companies, but there are often mining companies such as Epson Mobile, Shell, British Petroleum. But there are also companies that produce, for example, cars, such as Volkswagen. Even Volkswagen around 1999, when Germany wanted to introduce regulations, wanted to introduce taxes so that Volkswagen pays taxes as much as possible in Germany and doesn't take them somewhere else to tax havens, so Volkswagen said at that time that it would simply not be regulated and it would stay in Germany, or regulation would come, tax would come, and they would move their branch somewhere else in the world, because there is deregulation of the market at that time. And then, unfortunately, Minister of Finance Lafontaine resigned when he wanted to do this regulation, but while Volkswagen remained other corporations in Germany. But this then changes sometime in 2001, when we can have the example from Sweden, for example, when Ericsson, as one of Sweden's largest businesses, left Sweden in part. Of course, in these corporations, we will find financial corporations that control the world. We can put Deutsche Bank there, we can put ING there for example, we can, of course, put different insurance companies there. These are all financial services. These have just led to a major financial crisis in 2007 and 2008, when the big crash occurred. So much for the introduction. We will now look at the first theory of neoliberal sneaking coup and the death of democracy seen by Hertzová, Noreena Hertzová, in her book of 2000. And you'll be surprised, but it's still applicable to the present time. According to Hertzová, myths have already fallen, which have strengthened the position of the Western world in the Cold War. It turned out that wealth does not flow down as after the fountain, that growth has its limits and that a free market society is not only imperfect but also unfair. This is quite logical, because free market advocates, even though they keep repeating it and saying that wealth is there for everyone, suddenly it is found that it is not just for everyone and that suddenly there is quite a great inequality. And already in 2000, it is found that, for example, less than 14 percent of Američan live in poverty. It concerns, ladies and gentlemen, back then, the Američan employed. And 45? Američan don't have health insurance. This later changes with the arrival of Barack Obama and his Obamacare, which, later today, under Donald Trump's rule, is quite canceled by another deregulation. Let me get this straight. But on the other hand, in 2000, 40 percent of the assets in the US are in the hands of one percent of the population. This is quite striking and rather alarming. And it's grown even more since then to the present. Even one percent has already fallen to one percent of the one percent that has astronomical gains and controls the entire society on our planet through multinational corporations. Of course, it may seem to somebody that I'm creating some weird theory here, but you'll be surprised, today these theories are quite common and there's strong evidence. Then I will be based on the theory of Leslie Sklair, who, in 2000, wrote the very theory about the transnational capitalist class, the transnational capitalist class and the multinational corporations and the formation of the NAFTA Treaty in the 1990s, and today it is the CETA Treaty. If we look at it further, when the floodgates of the regulated market were released in the 1980s, corporations of this type, as I have already said, have gained unlimited power. And they're putting their unlimited power into various contracts. And when the finance minister, then head of a multinational corporation, Microsoft, was here, I'm not surprised he's lobbying for the CETA contract. However, I am worried, and a legitimate concern that the CETA Treaty will have a negative impact in the vast majority not only on Czech society, but on European society. I have one single example of this that I wrote here when I listened to my previous speaker, my colleague Luzar. The point is that, after all, the United States, which is linked by NAFTA to Canada and Mexico, is further deregulation of foreign markets. The point is that products are placed on the market more quickly and therefore their consumption is increasing. There's this ideology of consumption where we just need the world to consume more, even more, and the products spewed into the market. So in the United States of America, there is a so-called concept of follow-up responsibility. This means that if the company wants to put the product on the market, it will pass some simple test and immediately throw it on the market. However, even if it is found during the marketing of the product that the product is harmful to health, you, even if it damages your health, have a so-called subsequent responsibility. It's damaged your health, and you're gonna sue a multinational corporation that somehow ruined your life or ruined it completely. But you have no leverage against them. That's what this is all about, the deregulation of the business market. This means faster marketing of products. This means that it will also be introduced there under our terms and conditions when CETA is applied, the subsequent responsibility. This means that today, when we have so-called preliminary caution in Europe, that is, we, before we launch a product, or not just us, but, for example, the chains in Europe, so it goes through a lot of tests, some clinical trials, and maybe several years before the product is placed on the market itself, so that it can be placed on the market in some way normally. [[17.30 hours]] So this CETA will transfer to the logic of the free market, i.e. as quickly as possible to market products. If it is found to be harmful to health, one will only be able to sue a multinational corporation. You'll have nothing left to do but sue, but you'll lose the trial in the vast majority in advance. Of course there are different exceptions, of course they have already been confirmed, but it is a long run. And that's why I'm calling for a certain type of regulation to be maintained in the CETA. However, he is not preserved there, which is why I personally cannot accept the CETA. Another thing that CETA is causing is the removal of jobs outside Europe's territory. Once again, I am based on the experience of the NAFTA Treaty, the North American Free Trade Zone, when so-called. Outsourcing, that is, private multinational corporations have just brought certain jobs or some positions to jobs with cheaper labour. And what happened in the United States was that some of the phone corporations, for example, did what they did to move their switchboards to India, so, for example, when you called the appropriate one operator, you got a call from an operator in Delhi, of course. That's the outsourcing, i.e. putting jobs outside the territory of the national states. This should also be pointed out. Now I get to the theory of the transnational capitalist class. Transnational capitalist class can be analytically divided into four main factions. First, owners and administrators of transnational capitalist corporations and their subsidiaries, because any mother has daughters in the world. This is typical of, for example, the mcdonaldisation of society. That's what we have here, too. Secondly, it is the globalisation of bureaucrats and politicians. Thirdly, it is the globalisation of experts and, fourthly, the globalisation of consumer elites, traders and media, which are often in the hands of the transnational capitalist elites. And we can also translate it into our logic, into our concept of Czech conditions, when you know that some politicians or billionaires own certain media. That's pretty obvious. When we look at what a multinational capitalist elite is, it is transnational or globalizing, if you like, in the following ways. (a) The economic interests of their members are more globally linked at that large global level than exclusively local or national origins. This means that any agreements that are transnational in nature are not national economies. It's always about transnational interest, the transnational interest of private corporations. We can see that in that globalizing society, thanks to the unprecedented mobility of capital created by new technologies and new global economic policy, all capital is leaving the daughter's home to the mother without being progressively taxed in the territory of the national state where the capital originated. As managers of a globalizing corporation according to four criteria, they are essentially globalized. It is a foreign investment, which was already mentioned by colleague Leo Luzar, it is further corporate citizenship, i.e. belonging to the company. So the workers only work for the company and they don't care about any national interest, it's that it's globalized and not localized. And then it's a global vision, so we're going to introduce infinite growth on a final planet with finite resources. I'm going to talk about this in the Paris climate agreement when I point to this phenomenon. This phenomenon leads to the fact that our society, and not only - I point out, ladies and gentlemen, not only our society, and let us take it globally, so a relatively poor class is beginning to emerge in the middle of where the middle class used to be. Today, it's called a pre-cariate, when these people are forced to work in difficult situations. And the CETA contract will lead to workers' rights being brushed even more. There will be even more restrictions on the union's influence. The same was in the TTIP contract, so the CETEA contract is only a Trojan horse of the TTIP contract. The analysis of how the transnational capitalist elite has built up the below globalization discurs will focus on these criteria - the one I just mentioned here a moment ago. The multinational capitalist elite is trying to exercise economic control. It's obvious why these contracts are made. They want to have economic control over individual national states. We must also say these things directly. When I get back to it, governments got under the pressure of corporations, especially in the tax area. I indicated that the tax area was quite problematic. The fact that national states are hard to regulate these corporations, virtually. In the end, corporations hold national states, national policies, with multinational corporations being able to choose how much they pay on taxes and where they will pay. Here is the problem of tax havens, that these multinational corporations often make their profits into tax havens. What about the European Union? The European Union is always talking about it, but then I am deeply concerned that Mr Juncker, for example, was one of those who created a tax haven in his country. And these politicians and others want the CETA Treaty to be implemented. How rusty. So multinational corporations can choose how much they pay in taxes. This, among other things, hinders tax harmonisation within the European Union. Above all, this undermines governments' ability to ensure the desired financing of the public sector. Corporations move their activities to countries with lower tax burdens, but on the other hand, they demand subsidies from countries. In the US, for example, up to 75 billion in taxes are forgiven annually by corporations. Corporate interests also dictate foreign policy. And this is evident, for example, in the United States, where, for example, economic sanctions are imposed according to whether or not the interests of corporations will be affected. The same was found in Germany before the big financial crisis. But to this day it occurs simply, when some sanctions are being imposed somewhere, so it is done very carefully so that certain interests of a particular corporation are not harmed. Human rights are also retreating to commercial interests. The US supports a liberal approach to human rights only in so far as this is linked to the development of the market economy, reports Noreena Hertzová. The government of the United States is mainly interested in the rule of law, the protection of the public sector, the development of the market economy and not so much participation, active civil society and regular elections. We often confuse democracy with capitalism. That's a pretty common phenomenon. According to Noreena Hertzová, today's policy is expensive and capital intensive. Political parties offer essentially the same solution - a system based on laissez-faire in the economy, which I have also mentioned here, a culture of consumption, capital power and free market. And it is the free market that sets up the CETA contract here and builds on the NAFTA contract - it just seems like we're just going to establish a kind of friendly pact or friendly agreement with Canada, but in the finals we're kind of building up friendly contacts, in the finals you could say hostile contacts, with NAFTA, because NAFTA will need to export capital somewhere further, export its products. This is the logic of the free market - simply to produce and consume as much as possible and as quickly as possible, so that the corporations grow even more and absorb our world, of course. That's alpha and omega multinational corporations. It's about taking over the world and forming these trade agreements. And, of course, many politicians are proud to nod. I am not one of them, I am their constant critic, and I will always be a critic of Marxist positions, because it really turns out that capitalist globalization has great flaws. [[17.40 hours]] This is shown to us, for example, recently in Hamburg, where many people protested against the G20. The paradox is, if you ask ordinary people what a G20 is, they look at you because they don't even know what it is. That they are the most powerful, let's say, finance ministers of developed countries, where they argue about what these agreements will look like and in the interests of which corporations they will lobby. And a lot of people got tired of it. That is why there will be other tendencies about, say, the elimination of capitalism or some system of global impact regulation. I'm gonna slow down my performance for the finals, as promised, I'm only gonna talk for half an hour. That time, of course, flies fast. That's why I want to appeal to you to think about what this CETA contract really contains. What's going on here? What's her real interest. The real interest is not that it will allow small and medium-sized enterprises to enter the global market, it is only utopia, because at least at the present time, until some regulatory elements become effective, private capitalist corporations and multinational capitalist elites will rule. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u9	Before I give the floor to Mrs Aulická, I'll read more apologies. Mr Klašek apologizes until the end of the negotiations for family reasons, Mr Komárek apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day for family reasons and Mr Vojtěch Adam has been apologizing since 5:30 for medical reasons. So many apologies. I ask Mrs Aulická to take the floor with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say that I am glad that at least a handful of colleagues and colleagues remain here with us in discussing this agreement. I must certainly appreciate Minister Brabec for his constant presence, because he's probably saving this House's meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on the presentation that my colleagues Leo Luzar and Jan Klán have said here. I'll take it from a different perspective. When it was discussed, CETA approved in the European Parliament, especially our Members, or MEPs, but also MEPs for ČSSD, as my colleague Leo Luzar mentioned here, voted against this Treaty. Namely, I can say: Keller Jan, Kohlíček Jaromír, Konečná Kateřina, Maštálka Jiří, Poc Pavel, Poche Miroslav and Sehnalová Olga - MEPs for KSČM and ČSSD. Therefore, it was not very clear to me why, above all, the representatives of the coalition party of the ČSSD are here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, I can say, so lobbyists for the approval of this treaty or agreements, when their own people actually took the opposite position. Minister Zaorálek explained this to me, but given that the explanation is, I would say, so contradictory and I do not think it would be good to publish it and this matter should probably be dealt with among themselves directly by the MEPs and representatives of the ČSSD here in the Czech Republic. Indeed, the comprehensive economic and trade agreement between Canada and CETA has expressed great opposition. (?) This treaty is completely contrary to the rule of law, democracy and human rights. And we can name here - for example, in terms of environmental protection and health, CETA means that fundamental European standards will be weakened to the maximum levels for resistance (?) pesticides, endocrine disruptors. Furthermore, CETA weakens the European Union's legislation on genetically modified organisms. The quality of food in the Czech Republic will thus decrease even further. In that case, I don't know what we're gonna eat. Allow me to present to you the draft opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, which has been drawn up for the Committee on International Trade. CETA is an economic agreement. Although it would be economically beneficial for some sectors, other stakeholders, e.g. SMEs could suffer losses due to unlimited competition from large multinational companies, including economic operators registered in Canada. As far as jobs are concerned, some studies estimate that their number will increase slightly as a result of the CETA agreement, while others anticipate a decrease in employment in the European Union and the problematic effects of redistribution in favour of capital holders. Therefore, if we judge the agreement only in terms of economy and employment, the decision will not be clear. Weight bowls could outweigh health and environmental issues. The European Union and Canada have a very different view of health and environmental issues, food safety and animal welfare. As part of the WTO, Canada has initiated proceedings against the legislation of the European Union and its Member States. These are disputes concerning genetically modified organisms and the ban on hormones in beef, seal products, and even asbestos. Canada has been strongly opposed to REACH and European Union legislation on pesticides for a long time and has achieved the annulment of US legislation on the labelling of the country of origin within the WTO. The Commission continues to authorise genetically modified organisms under commercial pressure, despite widespread opposition in the European Union. The primary objective of CETA is to remove barriers to trade. Since the tariff rates between the European Union and Canada are relatively low, the CETA Agreement concerns, in particular, non-tariff barriers, this is different legislation and standards in the field of health and environmental protection and food safety. The Commission has already sacrificed a number of these standards in favour of trade interests, among other things, Canada. It has weakened the European Union Fuel Quality Directive in order to allow Canada to export fuels from unclean tar sands, and now even proposes an unlawful amendment to the provisions on endocrine disruptors in pesticide legislation. The Commission acted in the interests of Canadian companies by not prohibiting the use of cyanide in mining, although the European Parliament demanded such a ban, and by recently authorising the use of carcinogenic substances in paints, lead chromates because (?) European Union businesses use safer alternatives. A formal agreement, the main objective of which is to remove barriers to trade, will necessarily lead to a deterioration of the situation, regardless of any written assurances concerning the right to regulate. This situation is aggravated by the fact that investors will have the right to sue states, while the obligation to comply with environmental standards remains unenforceable. [[17.50 hours]] The opinion of the Employment Committee on the TTIP of 16 April 2015 is an excellent criterion for the assessment of CETA. There is no reason to take a different approach to Canada in a trade agreement than to the US. The CETA Agreement goes beyond the limits of admissibility set out in the opinion of the Employment Committee on the following points. The precautionary principle is not taken into account. Instead, caution is conditional on reference to international agreements, none of which contains this principle. Regulatory cooperation, although voluntary, does not apply only to clearly defined sectoral areas where the US and the European Union have a similar level of protection or where harmonisation can be expected according to higher standards, but includes everything. It contains provisions relating to the following areas: services, public health care, provisions which de facto restrict the freedom of governments to take political decisions. Genetically modified organisms, provisions which, moreover, are designed to weaken the European Union's legislation on genetically modified organisms, their application and future developments. It also includes cooperation in the field of chemicals, thereby involving one of the strongest actors in REACH management in its implementation. It includes public and social services based on a negative list. It does not contain any binding animal welfare provisions. Instead, it promotes an increase in trade volume without proper guarantees of animal protection. - I wonder how you would proceed under the present Act on the abolition of our breeding farms. - It includes a system of investment courts, a dispute resolution mechanism which gives foreign investors simultaneous jurisdiction, which significantly weakens the sovereign rights of the European Union and its Member States. With the implementation of CETA, the following standards, which the Employment Committee considers essential, are likely to be weakened, among other things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u11	Colleagues and colleagues, I ask for peace in the hall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u12	Non-approval of active substances and a European Union maximum level for pesticide residues, endocrine disruptor regulatory measures, an integrated European Union approach to food safety and the achievement of the European Union's climate and energy objectives. Furthermore, contrary to the requirements of the Employment Committee, the CETA Agreement states, only partially protects geographical indications, does not contain provisions on the restriction of the use of antibiotics in livestock farming, does not contain any measures to implement the UN Economic Commission for Europe's 1958 and 1998 car agreements, does not support renewable energy, and uses negative lists as regards the right to regulate in the energy sector. Finally, the rights of the European Parliament to be fully informed at all stages of the negotiation of an international agreement are still not laid down and it is not clear whether and what the European Parliament has control rights in relation to decisions of the Joint Committee on CETA in general or as regards the adoption of binding interpretations or amendments to protocols and Annexes, for example as regards provisions on equivalence in relation to sanitary and phytosanitary measures. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety calls on the Committee on International Trade to recommend to Parliament, the European Parliament, not to give consent to the proposal for a Council decision on signature Comprehensive economic trade agreements CETA between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union as Member States, of the other part. This was a brief draft opinion of the Committee on the Environment within the European Parliament. And now, allow me to help you analyse the final text of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada, to quote at least a few lines from this analysis, because some of the arguments that my colleague Leo Luzar has already made here, I think were really essential and important, but we can really look at this from another point of view. Seven years after the beginning of negotiations on a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, CETA, the political leaders signed this agreement in Brussels in October 2016. A lot has changed in the time of the agreement. In Europe, CETA began as an inconspicuous agreement with broad but more or less lukewarm political support. The attack now marks an ever-wider coalition of the movement of fighters for social justice, environmental organisations and workers' organisations, which rightly sees in the agreement a threat to democracy on both sides of the Atlantic. Public opinion has changed, too. Many Evropan are well aware of the extensive similarities of the CETA agreement with the politically toxic agreement on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership, or TTIP. The intersecting problems caused by climate change and extreme inequalities shattered political illusions about the social and environmental sustainability of our current economic model. The European and Canadian trade policy, with its emphasis on market openness, export-based growth, corporate gains, deregulation and special advantages for investors, has been and is still an attempt to eliminate alternatives to free-market globalisation. CETA would change and weaken governments' ability to respond to economic, social and environmental challenges precisely at a time when action and innovation in public policy are needed most. In 2014, the Canadian Center for Policy Alternatives and the German NGO PowerShift published an analysis of the final draft text of CETA called Making Sense of the CETA. This new edition analyses the final legal text of the CETA agreement, as published in February 2016, and is its most extensive independent opinion so far. It finds that, rather than simply a trade agreement, CETA is a large, constitution-like document that limits the possibility of public policy in areas as different as intellectual property rights, copyright, trademarks, patents and management and Internet law, public procurement, food security, financial regulation, temporary transfers of workers, national regulations and public services, to mention only a few of the topics examined in this analysis. The investment component of CETA and the plan to set up an investment court system that could discourage governments from trying to regulate them are worth mentioning. Our analysis shows that while measures to protect workers and the environment are primarily voluntary and generally unenforceable in the agreement, investor protection measures are the exact opposite of them. They are strong, binding and fully enforceable. CETA's final text seeks to respond to public concerns about the dispute settlement system between the investor and the State by several procedural changes to this overall system. [[18.00 hours]] Foreign investors still have a special legal right to sue governments for measures that negatively affect their investment. In the new system of investment courts CETA remains largely unaffected by the extensive protection provided to foreign investors. This will expose taxpayers in Canada to huge financial commitments and will almost certainly dampen future efforts for progressive public policy. Canada's experience under the NAFTA agreement only confirms this. Despite its developed legal system and strong protection of private ownership, Canada is NAFTA's most charged party. Many of these actions concern environmental protection measures, and only last year Canada lost a disturbing dispute over an environmental assessment that recommended not to issue a permit for the construction of a giant quarry in an environmentally sensitive area. Due to progressive measures such as the ban on fracturing in Quebec province, Canada is facing many lawsuits. A modest procedural improvement in the ISDS process and its transformation into an investment judicial system in CETA would not have overcome the circumstances that we are increasingly seeing, such as corporate lawsuits for regulation serving public interest, or the treatment of precious natural resources, and would not have given governments a better chance of winning such disputes. On the contrary, CETA would almost certainly increase the number of such actions against legitimate European public policy, thereby increasing the pressure on government deregulation. CETA does not contain any clear definition of exempting public services from their liberalisation rules. Instead, it provides a complex mixture of exceptions which differ from the State or province from the province only partial or non-specific protection. From the European point of view, this agreement is exceptional in the fact that the European Union and its Member States have had to use the negative list approach, an enumeration, which means that all sectors and measures that are not explicitly excluded by governments are automatically included in the contract. Although some public and basic services of some liberalisation clauses are excluded from CETA, these essential exceptions are vaguely formulated or insufficient. There are also insufficient definitions of public services and public interest. Examples may be drinking water services that are excluded from CETA, but waste water treatment is included in the contract for most European countries. Similarly, the exemption for postal services would effectively freeze the current level of privatisation and deregulation of European postal services. CETA also limits the possibility of parliaments or governments to return privatised services to the public sector. The agreement creates such conditions that one of the privatised sectors and services can only be very difficult to return to public services, including because of the risk of litigation. Despite frequent claims, the CETA rules do not have restrictive regulation. Simply set the level of rules for foreign and domestic markets. In several areas, CETA sets an absolute limit for government regulation and allows for appeals against non-discriminatory measures that would affect foreign investors and service providers. For example, CETA investment rules prohibit governments from restricting or influencing the number of firms or the size of assets in a particular sector. Those bans also apply if those limits do not give priority to local companies, which could interfere, for example, with efforts to prevent financial firms from becoming too big to fail. Finally, CETA does not provide for the precautionary principle. Instead, under the auspices of regulatory cooperation, it determines formal ways to ensure that investors get to the floor at the very beginning of the regulatory process. This will enable investors to exert various forms of pressure against the introduction of disadvantageous regulations for them. It is essential for Europe that these regulatory cooperation institutions would be opened under the NAFTA agreement to Canadian branches of major American chemical, biotechnology and energy companies...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u13	I understand, Madame. I'm gonna ask the House for peace so you can finish your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In view of these and many other shortcomings identified in the following analysis, it is therefore striking that the CETA agreement refers to the Canadian Trade Minister Chrystia Freeland and its European counterpart Cecilia Malmström as a progressive and modern trade agreement. Apart from a few relatively small changes, this is still essentially the same agreement that was negotiated by the former conservative Canadian government, one of the most unfair regimes in recent Canadian history. In fact, CETA is only a golden standard for agreements in the sense that it goes beyond previous trade agreements in strengthening the gold-plated rights of foreign investors at the expense of citizens and public interest. If the European Commission and the new Canadian government seriously think that CETA should become a progressive agreement, they should not be allowed to go through mere renaming loops and other empty gestures that do not change the original spirit of the treaty. Both sides need to withdraw from this bad text. However, if they continue as they wish, a long and conflicting debate will be opened under its ratification in the European Parliament and its ratification in the national parliaments of the European Union and Canada. This will be much more important for the future fate of the European Union and democracy. Forgetting the public's serious concerns about the negative effects of CETA, which this analysis confirms, is an undemocratic and dangerous procedure. Citizens on both sides of the Atlantic deserve effective cooperation, not similar agreements that go against their interests. And now, if you don't mind, I'd like to say a few details from the various departments and impacts that CETA brings. Settlement of disputes between the investor and the State. The most recent text of CETA on public concerns regarding the dispute settlement system between the investor and the State responds to the apparent replacement of the investment court system. This judicial system changes certain procedural aspects in quotation marks, but it continues to allow the State to be weaker in the dispute with the investor. The CETA Agreement retains the right for foreign investors to sue governments for measures that could adversely affect their investments or harm their so-called legitimate expectations. These safeguards, not offered to domestic investors or ordinary citizens, expose states and their taxpayers to extraordinary financial risks and would also jeopardise the implementation of a number of public policies. Although the text mentions the so-called law of the state to regulate, but only as a recommendation clause, it does not protect regulation in the public interest sufficiently. [[18.10 hours]] The area of financial services. By allowing more cross-border services and allowing more direct investment in the financial sector, CETA allows more risky investments, such as speculative capital. CETA also limits the regulatory options used by governments to respond to financial instability, for example, by giving an institutionalised voice in the regulatory process to the financial sector. CETA ignores the lessons learned from the financial crisis and supports sharper competition in the financial services sector of the European Union and Canada and reducing pressure on stricter regulatory measures, making both sides more vulnerable to financial shocks and diseases. The provisions on financial services are included in CETA in the area of investment protection under the protection of ICS, so that governments could basically be forced to pay banks for the privilege of regulating them. In the field of trade in CETA services, the ability of governments to regulate the entry and activity of foreign service providers to domestic markets, even if such measures do not discriminate on the basis of the country of origin. By ensuring market entry and preferential treatment for foreign service providers, CETA threatens the viability of public services and local providers. CETA contains exceptions to these rules, but its approach to the negative list means that all services that are not explicitly excluded from the list are included. Furthermore, CETA forces its solution to calmness and the government's latch mechanism to introduce future regulatory measures only with a view to greater liberalisation, including in many services included in the list of exceptions. Within the public service sector. Although several public services are deleted from some liberalisation rules in CETA, these reservations are vaguely or poorly formulated and the very concept of public service is not specified or explained in the whole agreement. Investment protection introduced by the Treaty limits governments' ability to expand public services or create new ones in the future. CETA also de facto limits the freedom of elected parliaments and governments to return privatised services back to the public sector. As soon as foreign investors settle in the privatised sector, efforts to restore public services can create investor claims for compensation, thereby effectively blocking any attempt to deprivatize. In the area of domestic regulation. CETA, with its requirements for the easiest rules on qualification and licensing and any measures related to them, has reduced the flexibility of legislation even in remotely related business areas. According to the CETA Agreement, non-discriminatory regulation is also interpreted as a possible obstacle to trade. Intellectual property. CETA will strengthen the position of patent holders towards innovators and consumers, which would support already destructive patent trolling in the software industry and other areas. Since intellectual ownership in CETA is included in the investment arbitration system, patent holders could sue governments for regulation in the future to limit the impact of patent trolls. The freedom of the CETA Internet is not directly threatening, but it makes it impossible to change the current system of intellectual property rules in Canada and the European Union, coming to the industry to a user-friendly system. In the field of agriculture. The ratification of the CETA Treaty will affect efforts to promote non-industrial and sustainable agriculture on both sides of the Atlantic. Extension of duty-free import quotas, e.g. for milk and meat, CETA would, in particular, put small Canadian and European farmers under considerable competitive pressure, which can support profitable but less sustainable forms of agriculture. CETA also raises legitimate concerns in Europe about food processing and production standards. Practices considered safe in Canada, such as the surface treatment of beef with acetic acid or the use of genetically modified organisms, are limited in the European Union on the basis of the precautionary principle. Within the framework of the CETA Agreement, these measures could be challenged on the basis of the post-care principle used in Canada's so-called a scientifically based regulatory approach. CETA also undermines the current system of geographical indications of European products. Of the 1 308 food items, 2 883 wines and 332 other alcoholic beverages protected in the European Union, only 173 are protected in the CETA Agreement. Climate and energy. The safeguard provisions for investors, together with weak environmental and natural resources measures in the text CETA, undermine possible efforts to achieve a sustainable climate and energy policy. Attempts to stop the production of energy from fossil fuels and to support renewable sources will be put at risk by the Treaty, which poses a serious danger to the measures put in place with the intention of achieving the objectives set out in the Paris Agreement of 2015. There is no clear protection of regulations and measures aimed at mitigating climate change and promoting renewable sources against attacks by investors in the CETA contract. Chapter Trade and sustainable development is short and does not contain any specific commitments for the creation of future environmental policy. In the field of labour law, which I think is very important. Despite positive rhetoric regarding the rights of the workers, CETA does not offer binding and enforceable measures to protect and improve working conditions in the European Union and Canada. Some European Union countries, like Canada, have not ratified parts of the basic labour standards or priority conventions of the International Labour Organisation. CETA encourages them to sign, but it doesn't oblige them. It is eloquent that the chapter on labour law is excluded from the general provisions on dispute settlement in the Agreement. In the event of a dispute over the breach of CETA working standards, the parties only require non-binding consultations. And now we can even say what threats are to Canada. Most of the concerns about the CETA contract are shared by Evropan, but also by Kanaďan, but a few of its effects would be a greater risk to Canada. The signing of the CETA agreement would force Canada to change its intellectual property regime one-sidedly, pharmaceuticals leading to higher drug prices. CETA would be the first Canadian trade agreement to introduce restrictive rules on public procurement by municipal and provincial governments, which could jeopardise local and regional development initiatives. CETA could also be in conflict with the rights of indigenous peoples whose traditional land is often targeted by foreign mining companies. Other areas of Canadian concern relate to the impact of the CETA contract on suppliers managed by agricultural sectors and the impact of the chapter on the temporary posting of workers on the domestic labour market. I took the liberty of listing a few areas that I think are really serious within the framework of the presented CETA agreement. And let me now leave the floor to other colleagues and colleagues if they continue to perform. I think we have tried to give you enough arguments here as to why this agreement really is not in the interests of the Czech Republic. I will not talk about other countries within the European Union, but, as I have already said here, representatives of the European Parliament and of the ČSSD have also opposed this Treaty. [[Member Sklenák off the microphone: That's not possible.]] Yeah, we have evidence for that, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u15	I ask that only the one to whom the word has been given speak. Please, madam, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u16	I really think that we should all think about acting in the interests of the Czech Republic. And my colleague Leo Luzar here has already responded to the speech on the previous agreement between the European Union and Canada, as it will benefit the Czech Republic. And whoever does not vote in favour, we can actually say that it prevents growth and trade in the Czech Republic and that it actually harms every citizen in the Czech Republic, so unfortunately I am sorry, but Minister, you were not telling the truth. And with your words, I just can't... I simply disagree with them and I think that as you speak, you do not act within or in accordance with the framework simply in such a way as to accept the right agreements, or not, for the benefit of Czech citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u17	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická. And I have recorded the factual remark of my colleague Kučera, if he insists on it. It doesn't last any longer. Okay. Thank you. A colleague of Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose that we vote on rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u19	Now I'm... I see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u20	I'm sorry. For the record, I suggest we vote to reject this law in the first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u21	Contracts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u22	Sorry, contracts. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u23	Yes, international agreements at first reading. Okay. That's a proposal that I'm sure the Minister will speak to afterwards. As far as the debate is concerned, I have no application. I don't see anyone from anywhere. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u24	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like you to return to the House so that we can vote. And I'll tell you what I was thinking during those performances that we've been listening to for so long. We've heard here that there are concerns about how Kanaďan take care of their beef. We have such doubts about hygiene, if there's anything risky in it for us, eating it in Canada treated beef. So believe me, I've recently visited several cities. One of them is Vancouver you probably know. And in Vancouver, you'll find that there are about 15,000 young Čech, Moravan and Slezan living there. But there are more in Toronto. And when I asked a girl there in Vancouver, if she ever wanted to come home, she told me not so much. [[entertainment in the hall]] And I told her why, it's nice here. And she said, here it's so purer and healthier. And so I just want to say to you that a really greater disaster cannot happen to us than those Canadian standards have hit us in the field of environment, hygiene and so on. [[The speaker keeps raising his voice.]] I suppose most of you are terrified of being confronted with this rough Canadian style. And that is why I want to assure you that I do not really think that we are in danger of making our health worse in an agreement with Canada. And unfortunately, there are a number of our young children who are already in Canada, and we will find it difficult to get them back to the Czech Republic from this dangerous environment. So that's one thing I'd like to answer to the doubts that are here that it's risky for us. And the second one here was basically a thought, it's hard to sum up with two sentences, but it's kind of like they're creating multinational corporations in the world that they're starting, or they're arguing free-trade zones to better oppress and blackmail us and exploit us. I would like to say against this argument one such essential... I see that it is not that simple, because there is one multinational corporation, dear colleagues that we have entered, and it is called the European Union. And this is an example of a multinational corporation in which if we weren't, our average wages would be about 40 percent lower. And maybe someone would calculate how much loss on our gross domestic product would be. So I just want to suggest to those who listened to the speeches that I believe we're living in a somewhat more complex world than the one we've been portrayed with. And here I can only repeat what I've been saying all along. If this agreement is adopted, it will mean that it will facilitate the entry of Czech goods into the Canadian market, that this will mean easier access for our entrepreneurs to the Canadian market. And I believe that this represents a considerable advantage for the Czech Republic. It's already been said that we need diversification. I think Canada has enormous potential. And it's up to us whether we want to use it or not. I wouldn't look up to it, folks. That seems very unwise to me. So please support the contract. And I hope that at least some, or better most, I've convinced them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u25	I thank the Minister for his final word. Before I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word, I say to the parties that I am unable to give the floor to anyone because I have ended the debate. Even if I've limited the rapporteur's right to his final appearance, I'm saying I'm sorry. As of 18.30, Mr Jiří Štětina apologizes for personal reasons and for personal reasons from 19 pm Mrs Olga Havlová. Mr rapporteur, are you interested in the final word? You're not interested. You don't want to get out. In that case, we will address the proposals that have been made in the debate. In the debate, there was a motion to reject this international treaty. Otherwise, we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. I'll check you all out. I will sing because part of the people were outside the House. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Once the number of applications has been settled, we will decide on the proposal that has been made in the debate, on the refusal to negotiate this international treaty... We will decide in the vote number 156, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of Mr Leo Luzar's proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 156, from 128 present for 30, against 92. The motion was not accepted. Before the vote on the commandment, the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u26	Thank you for the floor. I'm sorry that I rarely do, but I still have to use my priority right to perform every now and then. I can't do it. It does not make it possible for me, through the President, not to respond to the criticism, to say the least gentlely, of Minister Zaorálek, that we may have been demeaning the agreement. If, through the President, Minister, you felt that the Members of the KSČM, who were performing, were very closely communicating the concerns of a part of the public about what might also happen to be a downside, I assure you that this material will have one more reading, and if it seems to you as a downside, we will add, we will tighten it up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-004-064.u27	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. The Minister is not reporting, he is probably concerned about the opening of the debate. Then we will continue, and this is a draft of the commandment. The Organizing Committee proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee and the rapporteur, Mr Matěj Fichtner, proposed on 6. 4. order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as well. Does anyone else have any other proposals to discuss in other committees than in foreign and economic terms? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote on the commandment to the foreign committee, in the vote number 157, which I have begun, and I ask who is the commandment to the foreign committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 157. Of the 137 for 133 present, against no one. We have ordered this press to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. Now in the vote number 158, we will decide on the commandment to the Economic Committee. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 158. Of the 137 present for 95, versus 26. This proposal was also adopted. We have therefore completed the first reading of this press, the international treaty, paragraph 64. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. We have ordered the Committee to be foreign and economic. According to the approved agenda, we have a point ahead of us.
