ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u1	45. Government bill amending Act No. 553/1991 Coll., on Municipal Police, as amended, and other related laws /house print 681/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec will present this proposal. The minister told his story at first reading. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Security as a guarantee committee, and the press was ordered by the Constitutional Legal Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 681/1 to 4. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Security and, at the same time, the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, such two in one, Mr Bronislav Schwarz, inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committees and justify any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u2	Good afternoon, everyone, colleagues, Mr Vice-President. I would like to speak - the rapporteur of the Security Committee - that is what awaits us as a guarantee committee to discuss the press. We discussed this press in the Constitutional Legal Committee, where I am the rapporteur at the same time. At its meeting, the Constitutional Committee recommends that this Act be approved as it was submitted. In the next Committee on Regional Development, I hope a colleague, I think, Zahradníček, or someone, will perform. For your information, at first reading, there were 14 performers expressing themselves on the law on the municipal police and the changes that should be prepared and presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u3	Thank you to the rapporteur. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Josef Zahradníček, to take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the proposal in this committee. Unfortunately, the MP is excused. Mr Jan Klán will take up this task instead. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. Let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 53rd meeting after the reasons of JUDr. Jaroslav Strouhal, Deputy Minister of the Interior, after the report by Mr Josef Zahradníček and after the debate recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House press 681 as amended by the approved comprehensive amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u5	Thank you. It was exhausting, Mr. Ambassador. You're very kind. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Zdeněk Ondráček first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Deputy colleague Klán mentioned that the Committee on Security adopted a comprehensive amendment to this government proposal, which is taken as a basis for further discussion. I will not comment on everything that is part of the comprehensive amendment, even if there are some things that are, say, unnecessary, but let us not discuss them, it is based on the majority opinion of you Members, so so be it. The only thing I'm going to comment on here is a newly inserted paragraph. 3 to § 3c, Common provisions on public contracts, where it is stated: Public contracts pursuant to § 3a and 3b cannot be used for the performance of the officer's authorisation to measure the speed of vehicles according to the law governing road traffic. As a result, the anti-radar lobby has pushed your security committee Members into not measuring the speed of travel. This authorisation would remain only in the municipality where it was established. [[15.10 hours]] If you take public contracts that are, and you look and you drive around the Czech Republic, you know how speed measurements work. Let me give you an example. You're coming to the Giant Mountains. You're on the D11 motorway, where you can be measured by the state police's missiles, by the highway department's traffic police. You will ride along the road of the international class at Hradec Králové until you turn on the road of first class 1/37 in Jaroměř, on which you are going all the way to Trutnov. You pass through several villages on your way. And if you enter the district of Trutnov, right in the first village, which is Choustník's Hradiště, is a transit radar that is operated by the Municipal Police in Dvoře Králové nad Labem. Here you're told by the person who puts the radar there: Calm down the speed of the ride, you're no longer on the highway, there's people walking here, there's kids going to school, there's people coming here. If you break the speed of the ride, it is recorded, in a certain time schedule the officers of the Municipal Police in Dvoře Králové will withdraw it, explain who is the owner of the vehicle, invite him and within the administrative procedure a block penalty is imposed. If you arrive in the second, another village that follows is Horní Žďár, Vyšinka. There is only an informative radar and again we tell you: You are coming to us in the mountains, here you are not on the highway. There you are not recorded, only we give you informatively that you are going too fast in the village. And this goes on through another village, which is already part of the town of Trutnov, where we also have informative radars and where we warn you that you are once again violating the speed of driving. You pass through the town of Trutnov and continue on the mountains and pass through a relatively wide road where three people died in the past at the pedestrian crossing. After a long negotiation, a transit radar or stationary radar was installed there, it's not a transit, and it's used by the City Police in Trutnov. It's in the cadastre of the village of Mladá Buky. A fellow Member, Ivan Adamec, who is also the town of Trutnov, could also say if it is such a business for us, this radar. But in any case, since the radar's been there, there's been no fatal injury. If anyone here is talking about the city police having a business of measuring the speed of driving, and that they are doing so in places where they have not been established, that is, the exercise of supervision carried out by the Ministry of the Interior. But even if these purchased radars remain in the municipalities and are taken over by the Police of the Czech Republic, the return from these radars will not go to the state budget, it will remain to the municipalities with extended scope, i.e. The village of Dvůr Králové nad Labem and Trutnov in the example I mentioned. So it's not that anything's changed and that the community isn't making it their business. We can cancel these transit radars, it's no problem, we won't be measuring anywhere. However, let us ask ourselves a question, and the Minister of the Interior might answer that, too, whether the personnel states at the transport police are so good and in such a numerical condition that the rate of measurement of the speed of travel carried out by the Police of the Czech Republic and the municipal police will be such or whether it will decrease substantially. I asked for the opinion of the Director of Transport Police of the Police Presidium of the Czech Republic and asked whether the Police of the Czech Republic was ready to take over the radars that the municipal police had, whether portable or stationary, and whether they were ready to operate. If they don't, then the municipalities that invested in it are thrown away money for them, because municipalities themselves cannot measure the speed of driving. And you, who are mayors of smaller municipalities, will surely recognize that you do not have the opportunity to set up your own police, so you have also entered into a public contract with the police of the larger city, such as. Trutnov or the King's Court over Lab. The director of the traffic police says that they will not be able to measure the speed of the journey by personnel and that if they were stationary radar, they would have to take on employment, or possibly in service, dozens of new persons who would evaluate the data from those radars, and that this measure, which is here in Section 3c para. 3 proposed, certainly will not lead to improvement and improvement of road safety. I have prepared an amendment because I believe that people are not to die on our streets. And if you look at police statistics, crime is falling, but unfortunately, the traffic indiscipline of drivers is such that the number of traffic accidents is increasing, even the number of seriously injured and dead in my district, the number of people driving after alcohol or psychotropic and narcotics is increasing. The indiscretion that is in operation is significant and you can see it thanks to the cameras that many of you have installed in your car, when the driver accelerates vehicles with the right of priority in driving, when the driver pushes out another driver as part of aggressiveness, and other and other disturbances of day-to-day traffic. I therefore propose and have prepared an amendment in three alternatives. First of all, completely dismiss this pluralized paragraph and leave the current situation where the municipal police measure the speed of driving in municipalities on the basis of public contracts, because the Police of the Czech Republic is unable, I repeat, and there is also a paper from the Directorate of Transport Police, unable to take over these activities for capacity reasons and to carry out this task to the extent to which it is carried out today. The second option would be to meet the fact that someone complains that city police are being set up for this business and they work tens or even. a hundred kilometers from the village where they were established. Such a restriction would be that a public contract pursuant to Sections 3a and 3b may be concluded only for the purpose of exercising the officer's authorisation to measure the speed of the vehicle's driving according to the law governing road traffic and the municipal police may carry out such an authorisation to measure the speed of the journey only in the district where it was established. And the third, even narrower option would be the same authorisation, and the authority of the city police would be narrowed down to the territory of an enlarged municipality where such a municipality was established. [[15.20 hours]] Personally, I speak for option one, leaving the current state, because the discipline of drivers is not. And I can tell you that I've been driving, I've been driving for over 30 years, and in 30 years, I've only paid one speeding ticket at a time when I was a cop and I was doing so-called. counter-tracking because I felt like someone was after me, and I needed to find out if I did or didn't. When I left the village in my hometown, I broke the speed of the ride and was given a disciplinary sentence. In 30 years, I've never broken my driving speed, and if everyone else behaves like that, there's no need to have radar. But let's say for ourselves, let's say that if the radars aren't and we cancel them, we're definitely gonna push the foot on the pedal. And I wouldn't wish for any of you, I wouldn't wish for any of you to ever have to go tell anyone that their offspring, their loved ones, will never come back because he died in a car accident. I've been investigating traffic accidents for three years, and I know what it's about. To this day, I've been avoiding some people. So, respectable colleagues and colleagues, before you go back to being naughty and say cool, they won't measure, those bad officers, so think about the fact that your kids, your parents, your close ones are walking the streets. And the death of any person who dies under the wheels of an irresponsible driver could be due to your decision. So I will ask you, in the third reading, to support my amendment, which I will then sign up for in the next debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u7	I thank Mr Ondráček and congratulate him on his driving achievements. His speech raised two factual points. First Mrs Jana Černochová, then Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I must strongly turn against what my previous speaker has said about the fact that the Security Committee should be naughty with some organizations that sell radars. This is complete nonsense and perhaps it would be good if Mr Váňa, the chairman of this committee, also spoke in defence of the Security Committee. As mayor of the Prague 2 district, I am well aware of the effect of retardants, radars. But, you know, the debate... I'll follow up on what's been said here in the negotiation of the Service Act. If there really were a sufficient number of police officers in the Czech Republic, especially in the capital city of Prague, then the city police could devote themselves to what they were designated by law to ensure public order. The fact that city police have to do an agenda for the Police of the Czech Republic in a number of municipalities, including Prague, is systemically wrong. And perhaps especially in the capital city of Prague it still works perhaps, it has not changed even Mrs. Mayor Krnáčová, an agreement between the city police, or municipal police, and the Police of the Czech Republic, when individual directors of individual circuits will tell each other, and it must always be agreed by the Police of the Czech Republic, where the measurement will be and must be in agreement. So I have no problem in this regard with this authority of the city police at least staying for now, because those state police officers are not enough, but I had to get off because I really didn't like Mr. Ondráček's tone, who is throwing us in the same bag as some lobbyists of radar-selling organizations. [[I don't.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u9	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Ivan Adamec, Mr Roman Váňa, followed by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u10	Mr President, colleagues, I have been invited to say something about why the municipalities are doing this or why there is a stationary radar in the village of Mladá Buka, on the state estate when you are going to Krkonoše. And I heard here how a colleague is an excellent driver, or he was luckier than the rest of us. Well, I'm not gonna judge myself here, because the only fines I pay are always, unfortunately, for speed. But I have to say, it's not from the stationary radar. I pay fines every time I get hit by a masked car, suddenly it flashes and uniforms jump out of it and they take my points and they already give me tickets. Well, it's true, this! That's just the way it is. [[Response to disapproval from the diaper.]] The camouflaged cars that measure speed, I don't think it's part of our system. If they'd dyed the cars, they'd have a preventive effect. And the other thing is, they usually measure in places where they always measure. That's reality, too. I think there is a problem here that in a number of cases there is no harmonised issue of faster driving, such as the 70th, in a number of villages where there are pavements, municipalities are a few kilometers long, it is missing. And that's what these masked brigades are using. Personally, I'm not a fan of stationary radar, but on the other hand, when you need to secure the location, you need to do it. By the way, it was because the transport engineer didn't allow us any other option. And it's not business! At first, yes, the fines were a lot, they gradually learned how to drive. They learned how to ride even Pražák who go to the mountains and other tourists to be fair. So tonight, of course, just a fool won't notice. Or a person with reduced ability to see or remember. So, of course, it's running today, I'd say, in standard mode. On the other hand, I am also not forbid to measure by the city police at this time. But what I'm saying is, it bothers me that when I meet a traffic guy, it's either in an accident or in those camouflaged cars. Exceptionally I see them in a car in the color of the Police of the Czech Republic, they are seen as in Austria, when measured by you, so no secret car measures you. In America, you can't be measured in a car that isn't labeled police. [[Attention on time.]] So I see no reason why this should be in the Czech Republic! I'm sorry, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u11	Mr. Váňa. After that, Mr Schwarz and Mr Ondráček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I may explain this misunderstanding among my fellow Members. Mr Ondráček said that the Security Committee was influenced by the anti-radar lobby. They're the ones who don't want radar. That means there can't be any companies, because they wouldn't sell anything, that would be some liquidators. That was an obvious exaggeration, of course. If anyone is from the radar lobby, then it would have to be a colleague of Ondráček, because he is on the verge of maintaining radar. And only in a matter of fact. The Committee on Security adopted a comprehensive amendment stating that the right for municipal police should be limited only in the territory of its own community. Therefore, it is not prohibited in any way to exercise what is the purpose of the municipal police, the municipal police, to operate on a public order section in its municipality, which establishes it. And this debate isn't about whether or not we need to measure. After all, if drivers didn't drive fast, then no one could measure them even in unmarked vehicles. That's logical. But we're talking about it, and that's what we're talking about, whether urban and municipal police are supposed to be operating in the territory of their own communities, or whether they're going to go out into the wide, far regions, and then we need to measure the speed in other municipalities, even in other regions. And that's the question that's basic. After consulting with the management of basically all major city police, i.e. the College of Directors of the Municipal Police of statutory cities, even after consulting the Ministry of the Interior, we have come to the proposal to limit this only to the territory of their own municipalities. On the other hand, the interest in the community in this service is so great that, of course, it would be possible to accept the option that we will not be restricting it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u13	Mr Schwarz and his factual point. After that, Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u14	Good afternoon, everyone. I'm not gonna say anything about lobbying, about measuring. I am pleased that the President has finally said so, so I have also agreed with the Minister as rapporteur. I'd like to tell you that I'm glad that the people's creativity hasn't broken down and that opening a 500-three-year-old mayor for all the cities, which you're across here, is mainly because the officers don't go to training every three years, they're nervous, but it's shifted, every five years. That's basic. To save the municipalities in quotation marks for the training, the mayors will keep an eye on it. And that speed measurement just came out of nowhere. But the Minister here said to me, as rapporteur on my honor, that we will be discussing within the guarantee committee. And if there is will, and will is, to keep this speed as it is so far, it's not at all the essence of this opening. [[15.30 hours]] The essence was to really help those officers in stabilizing the municipalities, the officers, reduce the three-year training, extend it to five years, and other things that are more important to the city police than the measurements that might as well stay where it is. And the mayors know best if they need to measure speed, if they're gonna buy radar, where they're gonna put their officers, who they're gonna make a public contract with, etc. etc. If they don't want to close it, no matter what they do to each other. The mayor is politically responsible for the city police. So, please, repeat, in some kind of argument here in the House, especially those five years is a success for all of us, and for those officers and those others, let's leave it undone. The Minister himself and the President have made this clear - if there is any will, we will leave it as it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u15	Thank you. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and his point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u16	Once again, colleagues and colleagues. I thank the chairman of the committee for stating that this is an anti-radar lobby, that he does not want to measure the speed of driving. And that the city police are measuring, it is not, through you to Mrs Černochová, about any agreement. The agreement between the Municipal Police Prague and the Regional Police Directorate in Prague will be reached. This is based on Section 79a of Law No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic. That's by law. This means the Police of the Czech Republic will agree and determine places where municipal police can measure the speed of driving. And believe it or not, these places are identified on the basis of road safety and in places where there have been many speed violations or tragic accidents. And if Mr. Adamec mentioned that he'd be ambushed from those camouflaged cars. You see, Mr. Colleague, we're basically on the same route when we come here to the Chamber of Deputies, possibly. even to Trutnov's house, and I've never been mugged before. Maybe it's because I have a lighter foot on the gas, and that's why I have a full point system. I understand that many people don't like it, we're in a hurry, but really, believe me, telling someone that a person close to him died because he was hit by a car is not pleasant. Let us maintain the current situation and, on the contrary, force the Ministry of the Interior to avoid the excesses that have happened in the past as part of the control of the activities of the city police. But let's not change the law about it. Most city police measure where needed and measure rightly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u17	Thank you, honourable Member. Mrs Jana Černochová and her factual point, followed by Mr Ivan Adamec and his factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u18	I just want to clarify the terminology. Points are not taken, points are given. One. And two. It doesn't really matter here whether it's anti-radar or radar. What bothers me is that my colleague blames the Security Committee by telling us that we're being influenced by a group. It just bothers me on principle. Yes, anti-radar, I understand the connection to the defense of your proposal. But I would also like to point out that this is really more complicated in the capital of Prague, because there is regional headquarters, then there are individual police departments, and that is where the district directorates are from the city police. So the way it really works here is that mayors of the city districts who have no other authority over the city police, in agreement with the relevant city police director of the relevant district department, can design and initiate certain locations, e.g. in the vicinity of primary schools, kindergartens, where measurements really need to be carried out. And here, for a really long time, within the capital city of Prague, there was a coordination agreement and a clear methodology, because, as I say, there are few policemen, and maybe they have different priorities than those of the district headquarters. That's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u19	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Ivan Adamec, with a factual point, followed by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is really important what Mr Schwarz here said about the things that concern the prolongagues, etc. I think that's a good thing. Otherwise, I wanted to respond to a colleague named Ondráček. Well, maybe you were luckier, maybe you drive less than me, but that's not the reason. There's another problem. You don't take points from stationary radar, whereas when the police stop you, they take points from you. [[Comments from some Members outside the microphone.]] And it bothers me... They don't take points, of course. They assign, respectively. It's the administration... [[Notes.]] Yeah, but that's just the way it is. I really think the best prevention is visible cops on the roads. Really in those marked cars. And I think it's tempting. They actually collect the fines where I don't think they should, in a hill on the starting points, not just in villages, in places where there's nobody, at night there's no one like that. I do not argue that someone should drive quickly, but I think that we should go back to the good old practice and we should see the police - not in invisible cars, strong cars, which are really easy for them, which is used to raise money into the state budget for absolutely nothing. It just sucks. If the police stop classically, they'll measure me, of course I'm aware of my offense, and I'm happy to pay for it. On the other hand, when they measure me with a stationary radar, it's just a fine, but those points are more than a fine. And I'm putting a theme here to deal with the point system sometimes, or the next House, because the way it's set up, it's set very unfairly and badly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u21	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, Mr Ivan Gabal after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u22	There is a need for distinction in this debate. Now we're dealing with the municipal police law. Through Mr President, my colleague to you. You're talking about the Police of the Czech Republic. But that's completely out of this material right now. Because we're dealing with whether the city police are to measure or not to measure. I understand, of course, that it's uncomfortable if someone gets a ticket - I don't know if they'd like to or hate to pay it, but they'll just pay. It's a little different. I also agree that these activities should be carried out by the Police of the Czech Republic. But let's face it, these people aren't. These people aren't. And while we were discussing the security situation in our city recently, the head of the territorial department said that for the entire district of Trutnov he has four members of the Police of the Czech Republic who supervise traffic on roads. In a county that's almost 100 kilometers from one end to the other. Four cops all over the county. Is that a lot or a little? There would be 15 or 20 people like that. But the police don't have those. She's not able to get people to the police, to the criminal police or anywhere else. And if we abandon these activities and don't let them submerge here by the city police, then the safety of traffic on the roads will get worse. And I agree with what the rapporteur Broňa Schwarz said, that this material is not just about the speed of the ride and the measurement. There are many other things for which this material has been presented, and this speed measurement is only one of the things. And how it works in Prague is completely different because Prague City Police don't go anywhere else under public contracts. She's staying. Nothing will change for Prague. We're talking about what's going on out there, in the counties, in the villages. And many of you are mayors of smaller villages, and you know that you will not be able to get around your village, and it is certainly uncomfortable if you, as mayor, should be able to figure out that someone ran over your child. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So even for those radars, you would be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u23	Next time, please, Mr. Broňa Schwarz. Member Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u24	Thank you. Dear colleagues, in the last debate, I think I agreed with Slávek Svoboda that the city police should work a little bit as a local social, security and so on. It seems to me that as soon as the measurements are provided, there is more of an effort to make money instead of operating in those local services. My experience is that the city policeman in Prague at Letná is able to scold me for not having a dog on a leash, although the dog is following me two meters and for the time he's been cursing at me, he'll lie down and wait, although there's no sign, nothing. [[15.40 hours]] I'll park here at the House with the help of a state police officer at the last minute because I'm running, and when I get back, the car will be towed by the city police. So I feel like it's also necessary to find a way to get city cops to deal with street law and all that, and not the gay stuff. And I think speed measurements, not stationary radar, but when used in the hands of city cops, they just serve to make a certain amount of money and fag. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u25	I thank Mr Gabal. Here too, I would like to ask Mr. Slávek Sobotka, not Slávek Sobotka. [[Right Fame Freedom]] Thanks. Mr Jan Farský duly entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u26	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was about to make a proposal similar to that made in the first version by Mr Ondráček, in the sense that the ban on city police officers to measure outside the cadastral of his municipalities should disappear in the comprehensive proposal of the Security and Constitutional Committee. I thought that after the debate that took place here, there wouldn't be anything to complete. Still, I think we've kind of forgotten one level. The fact that they measure outside the municipalities is always, or wherever the city police measure, conditional upon prior approval by the traffic police, this place. It's not like they randomly chose the bushes they're hiding behind, and then, as the strong words have been said, they've been patronizing decent drivers and catching them jumping out of the bushes. This is in places where traffic police identify as dangerous, where accidents and damage occur, and where supervision really needs to be. And unfortunately, the traffic police are so busy, they can't always be in all the places. She gives the places she'd be alone if there were enough. An important plane that needs to be said - they don't catch anybody there for no reason. That's because someone's breaking the rules at the time. And to say that we're going to solve this by not keeping an eye on the rules, we're just going to say that the rules don't have to be followed that much and let them go fast because we've set the rules, but we're not actually going to insist on keeping them, so we're going to choose that: let's either set the rules, let's insist on keeping them, or let's not set the rules at all and cancel the speed limits, and that's the solution, if that's supposed to mean that someone isn't going to be fined for exceeding the maximum speed allowed. So let's really choose one of those paths. Because if we come to this in a way that the Chamber of Deputies will lay down rules, and then it will say that they are not really to follow, because the enforcement of their compliance is a thrill, it is only erosion of the rule of law and only the breakdown of fundamental rules. We can't do that in my opinion. And the second moment that didn't come up here is that it's a matter of self-government when the authorities conclude public contracts between themselves. And if we ban this, we're entering a field of self-governing and restricting the self-governing performance of activities. And I think it's very unfortunate, too. So for these reasons, I will propose the exclusion of paragraph 3 in the law so that the state that is set today remains and that municipalities, if agreed with other municipalities and if the transport police agree, can measure outside the cadastral of their municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u27	Thank you, Mr Farský. Now I have three factual points. First, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, then Mr Jan Birke, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u28	Mr Vice-President, by your means to Mr Farský just one short sentence. Mr. Ambassador, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u29	Mr Jan Birke and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you the mayor's view of the city police, there is a Troika community and we do not have a so-called stationary, fixed radar. We only have portable radar that the city police have. I don't want to deliberately debate whether radars are to be placed in these places or not, it's a matter of self-government. Granted, we don't have to constantly send the city police to train. Not only does it cost terrible money, but, of course, it eliminates the number of officers in the city. Above all, they should be walking around town doing their job. But let's go back to the individual radar. You know, it's basically a problem that small towns themselves want, and mayors come to us to place radars, and that the city police have a contract with the village, let's say, two or one, because they just have a transition, they have a place where cars go fast. It is true, on the other hand, that it should be noted that the Troika community has a very high administrative burden with this, of course, so the debate that this is some excellent business for the Troika community is not, of course, because you have to employ at least two or three officials depending on how many contracts you have. From my point of view, the fact that city officers should rather be in the streets and not walk in trainings is particularly positive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u31	Thank you, honourable Member. President Stanjura and his point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u32	I will follow up on my previous speaker, and I fully agree that city officers should walk the streets, but not operate radar. Maybe I understand the municipalities that want them to measure their speed, but that's why we have the state police. Let us remember what the reason was for the emergence of urban or municipal police - the discontent of cities and municipalities with the functioning of law enforcement. And the experience we've had since we've been through self-government, if you're running the city police, what the state police will do. Will it increase performance in a given village? On the contrary, it will. It's a townie thing, so why would we do it? I agree that this is a decision of self-government. Reasonable self-government should want the city police to respect public order and the state police to measure speed, not combine it. And there are solutions that are much better, but that are more challenging. We can turn four lanes into two lanes in the cities, turn them into turning lanes. We can build islands - the central islands not only for crossings, plant some trees there. These are automatically obstacles that when drivers see from a distance, so they automatically put their foot out of the gas, because they see that they no longer have a straight wide path that seduces to go there 80, 90. I have a personal experience with this. It's not easy. It's not easy to explain and enforce, but if it happens, it works, of course. Experience from our city - better than radar. What's the point of having your radar at the school and getting run over? You're gonna give him a ticket. It is much better to transfer children, with us it is four hours a day on all transitions for city money. It costs a million crowns, but there are those who transfer children from seven to eight and half past eleven to half three. That's a much better solution than having someone photographed. And I agree that when the cops are supposed to measure, they're supposed to be on the road, not cameras that produce thousands and thousands of images every day, and then there's a pointless debate going on, and now it's the owner of the car, and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u33	Time, thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kučera. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u34	Hello, thank you for your word. In many ways I would like to sign the words of my previous speaker, President Stanjura, but in some cases we differ, especially in the view that really the city police are subservient to the work of the police today, and I would like to say that it is not just traffic, because when I say experience from our city, today the city police are called to theft in a self-service, because the state police do not have the capacity to do so, they deal with things that do not belong to it, and it is, of course, because the state police are simply capacity undersized. And now that I speak for the government, the government has two choices. Either he will appeal to the state police to increase, that is, not only the traffic, but generally the state police to increase, to have a denser network, to have more serving police officers, and in the meantime, there will be various injustices in that city, whether they are traffic offences, or, of course, those thefts, or the self-government in quotation marks, under some rules, will take over and somehow manage the city's territory itself under the rules. [[15.50 hours]] By this step, which is designed here, we narrow these rules to one side and say that it has to lose some possibilities, that is, in this case, measuring speed, that means ensuring road safety in the village, and I supply it in its surroundings, but on the other hand, we do not give it the opportunity to really be a transport situation, virtually. Security solved by hand-in-hand with this is what the state police will be doing. That means yes, I would understand that, and let's say yes, the city police aren't meant to measure the speed behind the sign, the end of the village, first of all. Second, it's not for her to go to a convenience store for theft, it really isn't. But in that case, let's actually take some steps in hand that will strengthen the state police to deal with this. And as far as I know, something completely, completely reversed is happening today. Let me give you a specific example from the Ústí Region. The Ústí Region, if you look for yourself, the security situation there is not entirely pink. And it was the Interior Minister himself who said that he was pulling policemen from the Ústí Region to Prague. Of course, I understand logically that Prague also has problems, but it is solved at the expense of the Ústí Region. So those police officers from the Ústí Region are being pulled back to Prague. And so please don't be surprised then to the municipalities and municipalities that they are trying to address this situation by sending urban police to the limits of their competence, because the safety of traffic or safety in the city in general is, of course, one of the main criteria that the self-government is trying to address. I'm a little sorry that there have been arguments about cases that are as extreme as they are, which means the city police are going to go somewhere in the neighboring region, they're going to collect money, etc. These are pretty really extreme cases, and they can't be operated on. I'm sure I'm not the only one who lives in a city that's directly linked to this, I'll say, a agglomeration around the city, when the sign of the city ends, and right away the neighboring community doesn't have city police. And we would very much like to address this, and we have also been asked as representatives to address the security situation in transport and within the neighbouring community. This possibility should be denied to us at the moment. This is very bad, please. You can't just look at the village today as a whole that ends with the sign. She's got some kind of natural circle around her. Often there are communities that are very closely adjacent. And if in this case, for example, transport safety, respectively. speed could not be solved within the whole of it, so I consider it very bad. As my colleague Farský mentioned here, it is in particular the decision of the municipalities and the agreement of the municipalities of both the city and the neighbouring municipalities to adjust the activities of the city police there. There are a number of municipalities that logically do not set up municipal police and ask the neighbouring city to operate on their territory. And it would be a shame if it was limited only by the fact that it could not address the transport situation and safety there. In conclusion, let me just give you one more example. We were dealing with a similar situation, which was discussed here, in our town near the school, where there was proposed narrowing, where traffic signs were proposed, etc. And, hey, there's one thing we've come across that, for example, traffic signs aren't exactly in the hands of the government. Unfortunately, it is not just self-government that decides what road signs will be like, what speed will be there, what road signs will be there. Even her authority there is quite severely limited. So, on the one hand, self-government doesn't have the chance to take out passive protection, but at this point, we're going to take the active protection, which means we're going to be able to measure speed. So here I strongly support the opinion of my colleague, Mr Farský, and I believe that we will allow the city police to measure speed on the basis of the agreements of self-government and in the very neighbouring municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u35	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u36	The solution to the fact that some institutions, in this case, the traffic police, are not doing as much as we would like to, the solution in giving it to another institution, in this case, to the city police, I think the solution is wrong. And I'd like to return a little bit of the stump we got last week from our colleagues at the TOP. When my President gave his speech and gave his compliments to a member of social democracy and made far-reaching conclusions about it, Mr Farskýý spoke in a three-time role - a member of the TOP 09 Club, STAN. He's running for STAN. And I've seen Mr. Jurečka, who had some debate, in a KDU-STAN parenthesis. And you are supported by a member of the Communist Party. And it's okay. You see how absurd your criticism was. Just as I believe that you did not order a positive speech from a Member for the KSČM, so we did not order any appearances from a member of social democracy. And back to the problem. If it's true, as the radar supporters say, that cities don't do it because of fines, because of government budget revenue, then here repeatedly, well, we believe you, income from measurements and fines will be received by the state budget. [[unintelligible]] And it'll do both. You can do the active protection you're talking about. [[Objection from the rapporteur.]] Everything goes when the law changes. And at the same time, you won't be suspected that you're interested in receiving the city's treasury. That's fair. But those radar supporters can't hear anything about that. I'm saying - what about the radar we already bought? Then dedicate them to the Police of the Czech Republic. The council can decide that. You don't have to throw them in the trash. And to all those who say - because it's really easy to operate radar, it's a lot less conflicting than dealing with night-time interference, some street fights, gathering inadaptable, stealing, public transport. It's much easier to either operate and then process thousands and thousands of photos or sit behind that radar. You don't need almost anything to do that. And I agree, you don't have to go to training so often, it's always the same. In many ways, I agree with Mr Kučera in the sense that road signs, it is a good thing that this is not done by self-government, I do not think that we can solve everything, that we could also say that only representatives can teach, because self-government contributes to elementary schools etc. I'm deliberately using absurd examples. But it's working. It's not easy, but the tactical solutions are better. It's more complicated to push through, and it's longer and it works. And, of course, it's the responsibility of those mayors and deputies who, in my opinion, waste money to buy radar. Let us leave this competence to the Police of the Czech Republic. The truth is that what Mr Ondráček said is that this is not covered by the law on municipal police, but it is addressed by the cited law on road traffic. That's where you need to remove the competence, and then the feuds will be over. Then the revenue will be the income of the state budget. Radar can be donated by the Police of the Czech Republic. If anybody does the math, it's gonna be radar! I have no idea how many radar cities and municipalities have at this point. Perhaps someone could count it and tell you what the cost of purchase was, and then evaluate the efficiency, especially with what my colleague Ivan Adamec was talking about when you measure at the exit of the village you are protecting there instead of focusing on a really dangerous way of driving. These are conflict situations that threaten cities or outside cities, those reckless drivers. And they can easily drive at an authorised speed and at the same time endanger a dangerous way of driving pedestrians, cyclists or other drivers. But it's more complicated than sitting on the radar, taking pictures and sending some documents to the administration. And then we hear, "jéžiš, we have to have clerks! But you made your own agenda, so don't complain!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u37	Thank you. Good afternoon. Before I give the floor to those who are logged in with factual remarks, I'll read the apologies. Mr Okleštěk apologizes for today's work, Mr Kostřica cancels his apology, Mrs Pecková today between 17.30 and 19.00 for working reasons, Mr Chalupa 16.15 to 19.15 working reasons, Mr Antonín from 18.30 apologises without giving any reason, Mrs Válková 14.30 to 16.00 for working reasons, Mr Fiedler 14.30 to 15.30 for working reasons and Mr Urban until the end of the sitting day without giving any reason. So many apologies. And now I have four factual points. Please, Mr Farský, then Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to reply to Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, to add that, on top of all this, the list was so long, and I am not yet a member of STAN, but of the Mayors for the Liberec Region. Then the wide list of options would be big. But I'll get back to the subject. To me, it seems to me that it's partly or perhaps completely disconnected from reality that we're talking about rules being laid down, and we're dealing with limiting our supervision of their compliance. If someone breaks the rule, they have to be prepared to bear the consequences. We've got traffic police that approve the locations where they're measured. At the same time, we have a self-government that also bears political responsibility for using the city police, which costs a lot of money, to measure speed, or to use it for further activities. We tell all of them that they can't handle their work, that they are stupid, that they don't understand their activities and that we will take it away from them, because we are the wise Members who know better about road safety, know exactly where they are, and because we know better than the traffic police, do we know better than the mayors in the whole Czech Republic who live in those villages and cities, so we will stand over them and say: are we the wise ones who take that power away from you? We're not talking about putting something new into the law today. All we're talking about is whether we're gonna take out the law or not, or we're gonna take out the opportunity to measure by the city police outside of our cadaster. We don't establish a new law. Here's the proposal to limit the right, and I'm acting against it here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u39	Thank you. I beg Mr Kučera, after him, Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u40	Thank you for the floor. So I will no longer do any more replicas of who commended my colleague Farský for his role here today. His role is certainly not simple. However, only briefly to my predecessor, Mr Stanjur. It seems very unfair to me that it is argued here that the fine collections are a sort of significant income of the city budget and that the city police are picking up just somewhere on their exits just to improve their urban budget. I'm not saying it's not like that somewhere, but in any case, please, let's not turn urban authorities into some unworthy people who just abuse or abuse laws in a lot of ways. It's just not like that! Maybe we don't think that we're making wise decisions here, and the city councils don't know that they're supposed to measure where to measure, how to decide and what to do. They are much more in the eyes of citizens than we are. And if they measure where they don't, if they stand where they don't, and the city police are standing there, then please, the representatives will be the first to have it on their plate from the citizens. After all, these citizens will be very quick and within a week, within 14 days the mayor will listen to nothing but that they are measured in places where there is no need for it and, on the contrary, in a place where the traffic situation or the security situation is not entirely ideal that the city police are not there. So I believe that 99 percent of self-government is so judgmental that it actually solves the security situation where it has, and not where it is beneficial for their city budget. I certainly wouldn't suspect them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u41	Thank you. Please Mr Adamec and then Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u42	Thank you for the floor, for the last time. It may not have been mentioned here that the city police can only measure in a place with the approval of the Police of the Czech Republic. That's what needs to be said. So they can't make it up. And if anybody's talking about measurements on exits, etc., it's not about the city police. This concerns the Police of the Czech Republic. That's what I need to say. As for the business that my President here has indicated, and of course, don't ask me to say that my President is wrong, so I would say a simple thing. Radar. Radars cost something, of course, both their purchase costs and their operation costs. And if he wants to do it, of course he can. And the existing radars, of course, they also have some lifetime, they probably wouldn't want them anymore, so they'd have to use new ones. Then I ask, when these city councils go to the Police of the Czech Republic, to the traffic inspectorate, and they say, we want to measure here, measure here, measure here, agree? And they're gonna say yes, so buy those radars and run them! Not us as a community! That's a major problem. It's just not the way to deal with it. I think that who arranges the service, buys the tools, so they also have to have income from it, of course, because it all costs something, and it can't be said that the community can just give it to someone else, let someone else do it. So that's just an explanation. And really, the city police can't measure where they want to go. He can't. That's what needs to be said here, let's hear it. And, of course, the state police should significantly improve their performance in this area. And I remind you again - cars with no markings. And measurements in places where it just doesn't need to be at all. What my Chairman Stanjura said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u43	Thank you. Please Mr Ondráček and then Mrs Černochová, still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It has now been completed and said in the context of factual remarks, and what Mr Adamec cannot afford in relation to his chairman, so I can relax - but Mr Stanjura is not here right now. He's wrong about this, and it's a shame, because he's trying to make it into some kind of politics that supports who, and whether it's a kiss of death or not, a communist can have the same opinion as a member of the TOP 09 and the starosta. It is no problem, because, as I mentioned in the morning discussion, or in the afternoon discussion, when we mentioned the law on the service of members of the security forces, security as such should not have any colors and let's not worry about whether it is proposed by the TOP 09 Member, ODS, the People's Party, here someone from the YES movement, possibly. Social Democrat or Communist. It is an activity that we do for the benefit of the citizens, and we all live in our region, and we all hear from our fellow citizens whether we do the job right or wrong here, and whether the police or the state police are supposed to carry out these activities. I would fully agree with that. I'd be fully in favour of the state police, the traffic inspectorates. But the situation is that it just can't do it for personnel or other reasons at the moment. Let us maintain our current state of affairs, and let us discuss professionally how to fix this, but let us not reduce road traffic safety, because we do not like to pay fines and sometimes break the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u45	Thank you. Mrs Černochová, also a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I must stand up for our President of the Stanjury Club, because what was said here was not personally against my colleague Ondráček, it was merely a reminder of the way the TOP 09 pointed at something last week. It doesn't matter that a colleague Ondráček said it. Just mentioned it here by the chairman, by the way. As far as sensible self-government is concerned, as my colleague from the TOP 09 Kučera said. I'd like to believe he's a reasonable government. Now I may speak against myself a little bit, but I don't know if you have noticed the amazing work of the councillors of the capital city of Prague, Dolínek, Mrs. Krnáčová, as mayor, that she should actually ban an SUV in Prague. It's this totally crazy video they're probably demonstrating that it would be best if there were only segways or bikes in Prague, maybe we could paddle on boats. So I'm just pointing out a little bit that certain ingers, whether the city police or the Police of the Czech Republic, in some amazing ideas of self-government, are definitely in place, definitely in the case of the capital city of Prague, because it's really the idea that we're going to dictate to someone what kind of car they're driving -- well, colleagues and colleagues, where are we? If the representatives of YES, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL really oppose this or against this proposal, against this as a promotion, promotion campaign, they will not and will not tell their colleagues that they are completely wrong about both the fir, then something is not right in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u47	Thank you, that was the last point of fact. We are still in the general debate. I'll ask if anyone's checking in. If not, I am ending the general debate. I will ask whether there is an interest in the final words after the general debate. The rapporteur? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u48	I just want to thank, as rapporteur, for having this conversation about the municipal police law. Just to conclude, really, for all of you, repeat that this isn't just about the speed it went to. After all, you have also heard from my mouth, unfortunately not from the Minister of the Interior, who had to go to the Security Council of the State, that speed will also be resolved on our guarantee committee, which was confirmed by the Chairman of the Security Committee. So I think we're gonna agree across that we're gonna leave everything aside from the five years and a few of the things that are there. And in conclusion, please don't think of it as training, but I often hear it here and it's mine, I won't say my duty, I just want to say it one last time. You know, it's not that people think the police are taking points. I'd just like to say that a police officer who records a speeding violation will solve the offence and, as part of the resolution of the offence, when he has the driver in place, he writes a notice at the local authority, and there are those points added to your driver's card related to the offence. And then you should keep an eye on them. That's one thing. Then the speed is also solved in a different way. Now, just for your information, you know, and you know it. For example, here in Prague, the owner of the vehicle will address himself, and if he is not known directly to the intruder, the owner will receive a fine and the office will deal with it in a completely different way. So there are several solutions. But in any case, at the scene of the police officer, please don't really take points. That is all, and I would like to thank you for the regular debate on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u49	Thank you. The Minister does not want the final word. Mrs Chalánková's apologies from 17.15 am to the end of the day for working reasons. I have closed the general debate and opened the debate in detail. I have two applications for it. I beg Mr Ondráček and then Mr Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u50	Thank you, Mr President, for a short time now. My amendment, which I commented on, is deposited as House document 5629. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u51	Thank you. Mr Farský, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u52	I hereby read the amendment to the comprehensive amendments of the constitutional law committee and the Security Committee to the draft amendment to the municipal police law, House print no. 681. The amendment is amended as follows: Paragraph 3c (3) is deleted in the first part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-015-045.u53	Thank you. Furthermore, I do not see anyone in the detailed debate, in which case I am ending the detailed debate. I will ask the final words after a detailed debate. The rapporteur, the Minister - no. Just because I was taking the lead, I'm going to ask the rapporteur if there was anything that we should vote on. It's not like that. In that case, I'm ending the second reading of this press. Let's continue with the point.
