ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u1	281. Information from the Prime Minister on the situation in the European Union following a referendum in the UK on the withdrawal from the European Union This item was dealt with on 30 June last year at the 48th meeting when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that Mr Bohuslav Sobotka and Mr Marek Černoch take the position at the rapporteur's table. I'm asking the Prime Minister if he wants to speak with the opening words. That's right. After presenting the relevant document by the UK Government, this is certainly necessary since the last debate. Right away, Prime Minister, I give you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, on Wednesday, 29 March, three quarters of a year after the referendum, there has been official notification of the United Kingdom's intention to withdraw from the European Union. With this step, the two-year period laid down by the Treaty on European Union for negotiating the terms of termination of membership of the European Union has officially started and has also formally started to run. The Czech Republic has so far had close historical and economic ties with the United Kingdom. We are closely linked by democratic ideals, by the principles of the rule of law, by respect for human rights. That is why we regret the decisions of British citizens, but we have no choice but to respect them. We're going to have a tough meeting. In the first step, we will start negotiations on the conditions for ending UK membership in the European Union. So it's going to be a kind of divorce agreement. The second step is to discuss the conditions for future cooperation in the period following the United Kingdom's withdrawal from the European Union. Our aim will be to ensure that the terms of the treaty relating to the departure of Great Britain are fair and, at the same time, that balanced and mutually beneficial relations between the future partnership can be established on the basis of them. A partnership that will take into account the interests of the Czech Republic and the priorities of our membership in the European Union. In this sense, as I have described, and following previous consultations at political level, the Czech Government has adopted a comprehensive position material on the question of the UK's withdrawal from the European Union at its Monday session, which I would also like to present to you in the Chamber of Deputies as part of my performance here this evening. Of course, we will further complement and refine our national position in such a way that it responds as topically as possible to the development of the negotiations and at the same time reflect the priorities and limits of the Czech position in time, both in terms of negotiation procedures and in terms of material content. I would like to remind you that we have been dealing with the issue of brexit at national level for many months. I am very pleased that, shortly after the British referendum, we have set up a working group for brexit and the solution to questions relating to the future direction of the European Union. The Group acts as an advisory body of the Government and brings together not only the ministries concerned but also representatives of economic and social partners. A number of analyses have already been carried out within this group, dealing with both legal and institutional, but also with the economic effects of the UK leaving the European Union. It was at its last meeting, which took place at the end of March, that the Government's draft position document was also discussed. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, in addition to the Government Brexit Group, we have already established at the very beginning a political format which brings together representatives of all parliamentary political parties, and in this format the main directions of the position of the Czech Republic and also the course of negotiations are consulted. I believe that the debate across the political spectrum is absolutely essential on this subject. I am also glad that we, together with the Presidents of all the parliamentary parties, managed to agree on the main priorities of the Czech Republic for the forthcoming negotiations in a joint statement. Let me remind you, then, of the text of the joint declaration to which all the political parties represented in the House have signed up. This text reads as follows: "The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is a historical partner of the Czech Republic. We are firmly linked to the ideals of democratic society and respect for human rights. The Czech Republic will strive for the closest possible cooperation in all areas in the future. We respect the decision of the UK citizens to withdraw from the European Union. Our main objective is for the negotiations to result in the setting up of a balanced and mutually beneficial future relationship between the United Kingdom and the European Union. For the success of negotiations" - I quote further from this joint statement - 'unity at European level is essential in particular. The same principle must also be applied in the formulation of the national position. The Czech Republic intends to participate actively in the formulation and enforcement of the European Union's common position. We agree that we will strive for the narrowest possible political, economic and security relations with the United Kingdom, but to take into account the national interests of the Czech Republic, the interests of our citizens and companies, the priorities of our membership in the European Union, and also to minimise negative impacts on economic growth and jobs. We consider it essential to set up future relations with the United Kingdom, particularly in the areas of internal and external security, trade and services. We agree on the need for further development of our alliance in the security and military areas. To the maximum extent we will strive to maintain existing economic links and their possible further development, we will prevent both tariff and non-tariff barriers to the movement of goods and services. Although setting up future relations between the United Kingdom and the European Union is, in the long run, a key point in the whole process, it should be prevented from negotiating the basic outlines of the conditions for termination of membership, which define the limits for negotiations on future cooperation. [[18.10 hours]] The main priorities for negotiations on the conditions for termination of membership are, from the point of view of the Czech Republic, the maintenance of existing access to the market for goods and services, the safeguarding of the rights of our citizens and the resolution of budgetary matters. We agree with the emphasis on promoting the preservation of the already acquired rights of Czech citizens, not only for permanently established persons, but also for students, academic workers who ultimately contribute to the growth of the competitiveness of the entire Union. Our citizens living in the United Kingdom have made life decisions in legitimate expectation and have exercised the rights arising from their citizenship and membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union. This outcome should reflect the negotiations. We will also strive to achieve a fair financial settlement between the European Union and the United Kingdom, given that the United Kingdom does not want to participate in the budget of the European Union in the future." So much to quote the joint statement on which the parties represented in this Chamber of Deputies agreed here in the Chamber of Deputies. honourable Members, with regard to the main priorities of the Brexit negotiations, the priorities are given by the Joint Political Declaration: Firstly, the European Union must demonstrate unity and stability in its negotiations with Great Britain. Unity is the best guarantee of negotiating better terms than if we acted in separate ways. Secondly, we must be able to break up calmly and factually and remain strong partners in the future. Thirdly, our fundamental priorities are our citizens, our companies, our economic growth, employment, social cohesion and, last but not least, security. However, the order in which the individual topics with the Brit will be discussed will be important. A clear sequence of the whole process must be established. First we must agree on the conditions of departure, only then can we talk about setting up a future relationship. Without knowledge of the basic outlines of the conditions of termination of membership, it is not even practically possible to define the limits for negotiations on future cooperation. It is in our vital interest to eliminate to the maximum extent the uncertainty that will bring to our citizens and companies the UK out of the European Union. These uncertainties are also strengthened by the fact that the two-year negotiating process includes election dates in many European states. It will therefore also depend on the election results, as will the resulting approach of individual governments to negotiation. The main priorities of the Czech Republic are based on the current debates on the conditions under which the United Kingdom will leave the European Union. In the area of free movement, it will be crucial for the Czech Republic to ensure, above all, continuity of rights for citizens of the European Union who are currently legally living, working or studying in the UK. From our point of view, therefore, for Čech who live, work or study in the UK today. In the United Kingdom, approximately 40,000 Čech live officially, but according to unofficial statistics it may be a higher number. In addition to ensuring the rights of citizens currently residing in the United Kingdom, it will be equally important to negotiate conditions for citizens of the European Union who will only arrive in that country in the future. Providing citizens' rights is also a number one issue for the United Kingdom. It's obvious both sides have to make a deal. I hope we can make a deal like this. On the question of financial compensation, the Czech Republic will primarily promote the UK's compliance with its obligations under the current multiannual financial framework. The key will therefore be to find a consensus on the methodology to be followed by the settlement. It is a good thing that the draft methodology will be one of the first things that the European Commission will deal with as the main negotiator. As far as trade is concerned, I think it is not in our interest to punish the United Kingdom in any way for leaving the European Union. The United Kingdom is an important business partner for us, it is our fourth largest export market, it is the ninth largest importer. Moreover, with the United Kingdom, the Czech Republic has a positive trade balance, which ended in 2015 with a surplus of CZK 130 billion. Therefore, in accordance with the joint declaration by the Presidents of the parliamentary parties, we will endeavour to maintain as close as possible mutual trade relations and to avoid unnecessary obstacles. However, since the United Kingdom refuses to participate both in the internal market and in the customs union, a comprehensive free trade agreement is likely to be concluded. If this scenario were to occur, it would probably bring some restrictions. Last but not least, I would also like to mention that the Czech Republic considers it important for the future to develop cooperation with the United Kingdom in areas where we continue to share common interests. I am thinking primarily of the area of security and defence or, for example, the area of education or science and research. In order to preserve the integrity of the internal market and also in the interests of balance between members of the banking union and the rest of the European Union, the Czech Republic also wants to seek the relocation of the European Banking Authority, known as EBA, from the United Kingdom to the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put an end to the presentation of the positional material and allow me to mention one more specific matter relating to the right of our citizens in the United Kingdom. I must say that I am very concerned about the number of attacks that foreigners living in the United Kingdom have been subjected to following the referendum. I am thinking of the citizens of the European Union living in the United Kingdom, including Czech citizens. These attacks show the very unpleasant face of British nationalism, which was also strongly present in the campaign before the referendum on brexit and its result was unfortunately still supported. Personally, it's very disturbing, and I'm dealing with the situation. On the subject of attacks on Czech citizens, I spoke with Prime Minister Mayová and called for a quick and effective solution to the situation. Although every attack is regrettable, not every attack is directed against foreigners. One cannot ignore the fact that the incidents in the United Kingdom began to multiply just after the referendum on the speech. Unfortunately, this development is also linked to the tragic case of the killing of Czech citizen Zdeněk M, in which I saw a completely incomprehensible development last week when the British Criminal Court acquitted all the accused in this case. Just a reminder, our citizen Zdeněk M was beaten to death in London by a chain on the street, left on the sidewalk where he died. Given the doubts surrounding the case, the government has decided to pay particular attention to this case. I would like to inform you of the steps we have taken on this matter. The day following the judgment, the Minister of Foreign Affairs met with the British Ambassador in the Czech Republic. With a few days' delay, he spoke to British Foreign Minister Johnson about the case to convey our indignation over the final verdict in this case. The Ambassador Sečka also immediately after the verdict was delivered, asked the British Minister of Justice to convey our concern about the final verdict in order to draw attention to the possible unfortunate impact of the judgment on the atmosphere of Czech-British relations. [[18.20 hours]] The Ministry of Foreign Affairs transmitted a diplomatic note to the British Party via the London representative office on 5 April, in which it called on the British Party to provide additional information. Specifically, we expect the British Party to send all relevant documents relating to the case, including the judgment itself. We expect assurance that the nationality of Zdeněk M had no influence on the final verdict of the British court, and we expect information on what possible extraordinary remedies can still be used. The UK Ministry of Foreign Affairs has promised to respond to our note this week. At the same time, in the case of the case of Zdeněk M, the Deputy Prosecutor, who promised a personal meeting to explain the background of the trial and the possibilities of further action. Legal experts from the Czech Republic should also attend this meeting. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in regular contact with the sister of a killed Czech citizen who is trying to assist as much as possible in further progress towards the British authorities. I want to assure you that we continue to pay our utmost attention to this case, and we will work hard to ensure that the strained situation around Brexit does not have a negative impact on the Czech citizens living in the UK. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my speech, I would like to introduce you to what the Brexit negotiation process will look like now. Now, between the Member States of the European Union, we will have to agree on an assignment for the European Commission. The European Commission will be empowered to negotiate with Great Britain. Naturally, we will not give the European Commission a blank check. The precise assignment will be the subject of negotiations within the next few weeks. It should be approved at an extraordinary meeting of the European Council. This extraordinary meeting of the European Council was convened on 29 April. At the European Council, I will endeavour to reflect, as far as possible, the European Commission's tasks. We are ready to present the position of the government at this meeting in the Committee on European Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies before the European Council. The second step will then be followed by the adoption of the guidelines at the European Council. That will be the adoption of negotiating directives. These directives will define the position of the European Union in greater detail on individual topics. The Directives will be discussed in the working bodies of the Council and will be adopted by the General Affairs Council. It's supposed to happen on May 22. Only on this basis will negotiations with the Brit themselves be launched. We assume that the Member States, including the Czech Republic, will be kept informed by the Commission through the General Affairs Council and the European Council as the main negotiator, that we will update the Commission's mandate and that we will naturally monitor the Commission as the main negotiator. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, our main objective throughout the process will be to defend the interests of our citizens, defend the interests of the Czech Republic. I believe that we have prepared a solid basis for this, that the priorities set will have broad support at national level. Again, I would like to remind you that we are at the very beginning of the two-year negotiating period at the moment. We will have to continuously refine and modify our position. I can assure you that I am ready to defend the Czech position and, of course, continue to keep the authorities informed The Chamber of Deputies on how the negotiations are developing. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the interest that you have shown on the issue of Brexit negotiations, whether at the meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, and here already, by placing the relevant item on the House of Deputies' agenda. I am very pleased to take this opportunity to inform you in detail about the position of the Czech Republic, how we will proceed in the coming weeks and months, and how the negotiations between the European Union and Great Britain will be structured. So thank you all for coming to this item at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, and I am, of course, ready for the debate in the next few hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for his speech on the second part of the hearing. And I will calm you down a little bit, because I have two amendments against the debate that I have signed up for so far, and that is with priority right that Mr Petr Fiala is reporting, but that will still wait, because the factual remark of Mr Marek Ženíšek, who is therefore signed up with a factual remark. Then Mr Fiala, then Mrs Dobešová, Mrs Marek Černoch and others, as they are signed up. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think we all agree that this is indeed a solid foundation, what the Prime Minister has presented here. Today, we also had the group's work on brexit, where they were representatives of other political parties, and some things have been clarified. I think that many are described very well in the 30-page document approved by the government. There are also those black scenarios that could occur in case of any other decision made by the United Kingdom. That's what I think is probably good. The question is what the Prime Minister mentioned here that one of the main priorities is the relocation of the agency in the Czech Republic. We welcome the ambition. On the other hand, it is probably clear today that we cannot compete with some offers from other states, such as Germany, Frankfurt as such. But I would like to ask, and that is why I volunteered, because I missed the performance, if you could in any way supplement or describe it, even though it is national priorities and our goal is to enforce whether we have an overview of what priorities are going to be in other countries, whether they are covering somewhere to increase our chances of promoting them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u5	I thank Mr Marek Ženíšek even for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr Petr Fiala. And the rapporteur wants to take advantage of priority rights. So, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am glad that this item is included in the Chamber of Deputies' meeting, perhaps I prefer it rather than the Prime Minister, and I welcome the fact that we can talk about government positions on Brexit and related problems. To begin with, I would also like to really appreciate the fact that the negotiations have taken place, that there has been a meeting of the leaders of the parliamentary parties to brexit at the end of February. It was a thing I long been calling for. It turned out that it was right to hold the meeting, because we had a rather easy agreement in some basic positions. I think it is a good thing that we have been able to agree on such issues as that we want the narrowest possible political, economic and security relations with Britain, taking into account the national interests of the Czech Republic, that the main priorities for the Czech Republic are to maintain access to the market for goods and services and to ensure the rights of our citizens in Britain, and that it is necessary to resolve the budgetary issues related to Brexit. A little less positively I would evaluate the communication that was also mentioned here, between the government working group on brexit and the meeting of representatives of individual political parties, including the opposition, because if I am well informed, and I am well informed, the results of the work of the working group on brexit were not kept informed of the broader political working group. The information hasn't reached them until the last few days, and most of it hasn't been until today. So I would be glad if I understood the Prime Minister's remarks, now that the information will be regular and more thorough. However, I would go from the more general issues on which we have all agreed to some specific issues, because even the whole debate on brexit comes from such a general point of view in the European Union to those specific, often technical, often very detailed and complex issues, and I think it is good to be informed about them, too, to deal with them as well. I will leave out the things that the Prime Minister mentioned here in more detail, even though I wanted to ask about them too, and rather I will focus on what might not have been created, or on what he did not put emphasis on in presenting the position of government of the Czech Republic. [[18.30 hours]] I am pleased that the Prime Minister himself said that the government will promote correct action in the framework of the European Union's and Britain's negotiations. That it will prevent Britain from being punished somehow, as we hear from some European Union officials, as we also hear from some Member States. Because if we join such short-sighted and really stupid politics, in the final we will be damaged and the interests of the Czech Republic will be damaged. Britain is a key country, it is a key country for the whole of Europe. The fact that Britain is part of Europe does not change when it leaves the Union. It is in the interests of the Czech Republic to maintain the best possible relationships, whether for the reasons mentioned here - the fourth most important market, for Czech exports extremely important countries. He works there at least 35,000. Czech citizens, we have close links, we have links within NATO, we need those relationships to be as good as possible after the departure of Great Britain. This is, of course, a long-term position of the Civil Democratic Party, and it is indeed a position that is advantageous for the Czech Republic. I would like to touch on one thing in more detail, and that is the budget and budget negotiations and its form after Great Britain leaves the European Union, because, as we know, the budget period goes beyond the UK's exit horizon and we need to talk about what will happen with the budget by 2020. I would just like to remind you that there are three real scenarios, as will be with British contributions for the rest of the period after Britain leaves the European Union. That one scenario is the budgetary status quo. This means that Britain will continue to apply, it will also continue to draw, even if it will no longer be a member of the European Union in 2019 and 2020. This is not a very likely scenario, let's face it, because of me. such a position is very difficult for the British Government to defend internally. I'd call a second scenario a complement. This would mean that the rest of Britain's share will be paid by the other 27 countries of the European Union, and one of the consequences of such a decision would be that virtually everyone will get worse with a net budget position. And you can imagine what that means. And the third scenario is called economical. There would be what happened to the second scenario in the first phase. This means that the UK would stop paying at the moment of departure and the EU countries would decide to cut spending chapters. It is not entirely simple, this scenario is complicated because changes in the budgetary framework require unanimity in the Council. And no matter how complicated it all is, it's clear that one of those scenarios is going to happen in some form, and we need to be prepared for that, and we need to know which of those scenarios we want. In this context, I would just point out that, in the event of a reduction, cohesion policy will also be affected by funds. And here I have to say that the fact that we currently have an obvious problem with the drawing of euro subsidies can put our future position in jeopardy. Let me just remind you of what I said last week and what we talked about here in the Chamber of Deputies. We have only 5,8% on advance payments in this programming period, only 0,8 percent of allocated funds in real terms. So we do not draw well, and this could be very disadvantageous for us in certain developments in the future and endanger our budgetary position if there is a scenario to reduce expenditure. And that's what we need to think about, and that's what the government needs to do. Even without giving it the same importance, I would like to call on the Prime Minister or ask him whether he pays enough attention to personnel issues, i.e. securing people who negotiate for the Czech Republic every day or very often representing the Czech Republic in Brussels and coordinating European policy with us. Because, as we all know, or we who know more about the functioning of the European Union in detail, these very people, and these very links, and the very administrative and diplomatic plane, are extremely important for the enforcement of our interests. I will just remind you that the State Secretary for European Affairs has resigned from the Office of the Government of Tomáš Prouza and that this position is not only formal, it must be filled well, and I believe that the government is working on it. However, I would also point out another thing that the Head of Permanent Representation to the European Union, a very experienced and respected diplomat Martin Povejšil, is already in a sense reserving because in 2016 he completed four years of his diplomatic mission, and even here it would be appropriate to think about how to ensure that position further, so that we are well represented in this matter. If I were to sum up what I was talking about here, and if I were to formulate some questions quite specifically, questions that I would like to know the answer to if not here, so at the announced meeting of the Committee on European Affairs, I would return, or so I would recall the scenarios that I have described here in terms of the development of the budget, and I would ask which of the three scenarios regarding the possible failure of British contributions to the current budget is supported by the government and why. As it will be in the future. Are we ready, for example, to replace the British blackout with higher contributions from other members, including us? Or will we support the reduction or redistribution of expenditure? How would this affect e.g. a regional development programme? These are all very specific questions that will undoubtedly occur in the short term and the government must be prepared for them. I would also like to know what variant - the Prime Minister started it on such a general level, perhaps it is in the document that I have not yet been able to see, because it was only the day before yesterday that the working group received it - what option the Czech Government is promoting if it wants to maintain freedom of movement and access to the British labour market as much as possible, when the United Kingdom has already declared that it does not want to be part of the European Economic Area. And last but not least, I am certainly interested in whether the government and its representatives will push for the European Union to use the Brexit development for the real and necessary reforms of the European Union during the negotiations, because such a scenario is, of course, offered. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an important subject, and I want to say to the Civil Democratic Party that we are ready to support joint action. We are ready to support the government in this matter if the government seeks such support and if it communicates with us regularly. We believe that such a responsible political position is in the interests of the Czech Republic, because I am often reminded of the motto that on the outside we can only be as strong as we are at home united. And we are well aware of that. The ODS is ready to communicate with the government and support the government in this matter. Support a common national position because it's a big deal. And we want the Czech Republic to have a common national position and defend national interests in Brussels, so that is what we are very interested in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u7	I thank Mr Petr Fial. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Benešík. Before that, I will read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Tomio Okamura, Mr. Okamura, apologizes until the end of the day. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Mr Marek Černoch, who wishes to exercise the right of priority, will then be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u8	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, dear government, just a brief response to what has been said here. The Committee on European Affairs is constantly dedicated to the issue of brexit. In the vast majority, the Prime Minister, who takes part in these negotiations in the consultation on his mandate before the European Council, informs us directly. I am glad that we are also discussing this at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, because it is about the citizens of the Czech Republic, it is about our position, it is about us, it is about our companies, it is about our people and it is good for us to reconcile our positions. What Chairman Fiala said, I am very much at liberty. It is important that the Czech Republic has a clear strategy across the political spectrum, pulling together. And I personally think that at this point it will be important that we align our position, our priorities, our demands with the other Member States, because together we can negotiate much more than if we negotiate separately. I wanted to mention one more important thing, and these are the financial commitments of the United Kingdom to the budget of the European Union. I think we should insist that the United Kingdom actually honour its commitments. It is in the interests of the Czech Republic. And I use a little of this debate, a debate on the European Union's budget, just to point out that it is high time that the Czech Republic became very active in the debate on the new form of cohesion policy. You may have noticed that the state budget of the Czech Republic is relatively significantly linked to the budget of the European Union. In other words, if money flows from Brussels, the Czech economy is doing much better. [[The President draws attention to the end of time to the factual remark.]] Yes, I'm done. [[The President insists.]] I just wanted to say that this is a very important debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u9	There. Now, therefore, the rapporteur's priority right. Mr. Marek Černoch, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. I think we will all agree on the fundamental priorities, and that is the protection of the citizens of the Czech Republic in Britain, the protection of companies and investments in the UK, as well as the common procedure and clear strategies in the framework of the exit and agreements with Great Britain after their performance, and I mean after those two years, which, from my point of view, are unrealistic for all contracts to be negotiated, so that time will probably be longer. I was at that business meeting that took place today, and I have to say that the document we received is full of really good goals that have been being talked about all along. What puzzles me, however, is the fated sentence that the government considers essential unity and common practice at European level. What does that mean? Putting the future of the Czech Republic in the hands of the European Union, which may be a very short future, will begin - and I will say unfortunately - to crumble by itself, because there will be elections in France, we may have a referendum in Scotland, when Scotland will decide between going through the uncertain way of accession to the European Union, or whether it will remain a state associated with the UK. There will be more countries that will decide whether they want to stay in the European Union or not. It depends, of course, on the behaviour of the European Union, which unfortunately - thanks to, for example. The European Commission and, above all, its representatives - makes one mistake after another. It was Commission President Juncker, who, just before the Brexit, before the vote, before the referendum, said that it would hurt the Brit, no matter what they decided. Whether that is true or not, there is one part of the professional part of the relationship between the European Union and Britain. The second part is that this political statement meant that people who were not yet determined, as they will vote in the referendum, have turned to the option of leaving the European Union. Fortunately, I must say fortunately, he is a negotiator Michel Barnier, who is not such an official. He's a man who's very capable of negotiating. Until then, however, as long as people like Mr Juncker and many others remain at the head of the European Commission, people who really did not vote for it are officials who usurp the political responsibility, the European Union has no chance of any reform, and thus no chance of salvation. It is the same European Union that promotes a system of two-speed Europe, which is attributed to one first class, second class. Unfortunately, we're in the second-class role. And so, as soon as the Czech Republic doesn't guard its positions as part of the negotiations, it will turn out the way it always worked out that we will be a little bit behind us. I have a lot of friends in Britain, and we're talking about what the atmosphere is like. They say one thing, that in Britain, of course, the moods change a little in such a special way, however, that most Brit do not have a problem with people who work, who are there in schools who are involved in that life. They have a problem with people who live there and receive welfare benefits. I mean the citizens of the Czech Republic. It's logical from my point of view. They will be defined against these people in the UK. Not against the decent ones who do business there or who study there. What I think and think in Dawn is very important, and it has also been said by colleague Mark Ženíšek, it is not only an agency, it is possible to move the agency to the Czech Republic. There's a lot more companies out there that might want to leave. And if we are able to offer them some attractive conditions, it is possible that more companies will move to the Czech Republic, that other companies will be represented here. These are things that are very important from our point of view. Of course, the Czech Republic must actively engage in negotiations. It is not black - white, left - right that we will either negotiate ourselves or negotiate within the European Union. I think the steps can be shared. But the main thing is not to sit in the corner, not wait for what the European Union will negotiate for us, and then maybe wonder. This is not a separate negotiation, but mainly an active approach of the Czech Republic. That is something that will touch another Chamber of Deputies. Because I'm saying it's gonna take at least two years, but from my point of view, it's gonna be longer. And the way in which the next political Garniture, which will be here after the next election, will be crucial, because it will fall within their mandate. And I firmly believe that it will not be the same system as it was in this government. Yes, compulsory quotas were rejected, but at the beginning there was talk of adoption, and after the pressure of the Chamber of Deputies and the European Committee, at that point the government decided not to accept the compulsory quotas. It was the same with the Treaty with Turkey, when the Chamber of Deputies had to vote here on the resolution that the Czech Republic should not accept visa-free relations with Turkey. So I firmly believe that the next government will really send wolves when I say it now to the people who will guard it so that, as countries, we will not stand in a corner, that the Czech citizens will really be protected in the UK, as well as companies, and that, as has been said, the divorce between Great Britain and the European Union should be broken up, because the breakup is, but to bring positives on both sides. That's what I think will be very important. And we will do our utmost and stand and watch and, of course, we will try to push the government and the people who negotiate for the Czech Republic in the European Union on our conditions to do so with the utmost responsibility towards the Czech Republic and our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u11	Thank you, too. Before I give the floor to the honourable Member, please make a point, Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u12	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Very briefly regarding the punishment of Great Britain. I think it's a big mistake for us to deliberately try to punish the Great Britain. No way. The sound of words saying it would hurt the Great Britain, that's true. It's gonna hurt us, too, and we have to try to make it hurt as little as possible. That's the point, of course. But I am a politician in the Czech Republic, defending the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic and not defending the interests of the citizens of the United Kingdom. So if I have a choice that it will hurt more Brit and less Čech, then, of course, I will always vote for this option and I will proceed this way. That's what it was meant to be. Otherwise, no one wants to do anything on purpose, throw sticks under their feet, but let us just realize that we defend the interests of the Czech Republic, the Czech citizens, and that is absolutely a priority for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u13	Yet the rapporteur - a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u14	Very fast two sentences. I did not talk about punishing, but the European Union will make an example of this. And of course, if it hurts the Brit, or the Czech Republic, citizens of the Czech Republic, I also tend to make it hurt the Brit.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u15	If there are no other facts, please, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that I too, albeit last, can contribute to the debate on such an important subject as Brexit. Since I am a teacher, I know that repetition is the mother of wisdom, so allow me to repeat some of the facts concerning the outcome of the referendum that took place on 23 June last year and which basically started a process that was somehow ended and thus started the output of Great Britain from the European Union, and which will fundamentally change the political economic situation in the European Union. So let us consider some facts that accompany Brexit. The population of the Union will be reduced from 505 million -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u17	Madam, I am very sorry. I'm asking the left side of the hall for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u18	I'll take the liberty of trying to see if they've been paying attention. The population of the Union will decrease from 505 million to 440, 12 percent less, and Great Britain is the fifth largest economy in the world. Great Britain's withdrawal from the Union will reduce EU GDP by 15 percent, and the same amount will be the European 27's foreign trade volume. Brexit will mean a significant reduction in the volume of the Union budget. At present, Great Britain is the second largest net contributor to Germany, and this blackout will have to be filled either by increasing contributions from Member States or by reducing spending on EU policies, among which regional and cohesion policy has a significant place. The net contribution of Great Britain is estimated at around EUR 8.5 billion, which is what has now started to be argued within the EU about who will pay such a large revenue gap in the European Union. This is likely to be addressed within the European Union's multi-speed concept at the expense of the current EU subsidy recipients, and this can fundamentally affect the visegrádský Four. Brexit can therefore have a negative impact on the economic situation in the Czech Republic. According to analysts, GDP growth may decrease by a few tenths of a percentage point in the future. Great Britain is the fifth largest export market for the Czech Republic and the 14th largest import market. The UK participates in the total Czech exports of almost five percent and in the total import of two. The turnover is developing very well and we are still registering a positive balance after 2001. To illustrate, the high surplus of the Czech Republic's trade balance with Great Britain covers almost 30% of the Czech Republic's trade deficit with China. According to data from the Czech National Bank, the direct investment of British companies in the Czech Republic will be CZK 72 billion by the end of 2014. (?) Great Britain took eleventh place on the top of the biggest investors, and around 300 British companies are now active in the Czech Republic. And I think it's time to recap the opening part of the class, and I don't know if I can start calling the left side through you. [[turning to the President]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u19	So if you feel that the left side is disturbing you, I'm gonna ask my left-wing colleagues once again, all the way from the left-hand side, for peace. [[It's ……]] Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u20	I think that, on the basis of these facts, no one doubts that the departure of Great Britain is a major challenge for the European Union in particular. And I think that was also shown by the evolution of the political scene in individual countries that were preparing for elections. The outcome of the elections in Holland was very impatiently expected. And we know that everyone was very relieved to realize that the Wilders party didn't win, and luckily, the liberal side of the current repremiere, Rutte, won. It is not, however, that we should be completely cheered and happy with the outcome of the elections, because for the first time in history, the Dutch Parliament, that is, in a European country, the DENK party, which is the party in which the Dutch Turek have the lead. And all of Europe is beginning to wonder whether multicultural policy is the right way. There is a similar situation in France, Sweden, Denmark and Italy. We used to call ourselves a sort of exit from the European Union czexit and itexit, etc., because many countries indicated that they were not satisfied with the development of the European Union and that they, too, could, if there is no common path, look for ways to get out of the European Union. I think that what accompanied the results of the referendum that Europe was implying that it would be very austere and would try to make the UK go uncomfortable was not the right strategy. And I am very pleased that the Czech Republic is a country that approaches pragmatically to resolve a breakup with the European Union, and I think that, as every trader knows, it is good to make such an agreement so that both sides are satisfied. I think there is no way to negotiate: let us win over Great Britain and show that if another country tries to do the same, we will treat it in exactly the same way. I think the words of today's Prime Minister Rutte, who said "if you love Europe, stop dreaming of more Europe, but start solving problems," described exactly the situation we are in. And I am very glad that the Prime Minister has confirmed us that we have thrown away any insults and efforts to damage Great Britain and that we will begin to act without prejudice about the best trade relations. I would really like to see both sides at the end of this journey, when we are saying goodbye to each other and the United Kingdom is leaving the European Union, both sides are satisfied as far as possible. Thank you for your attention to those who listened to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u21	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Vice-President Filip with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u22	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, we will be lecturing for a while here, and I would like to take that lesson from a slightly different side than my colleague Dobešová. You know, the outcome of the referendum was expected to be respected by the British government, and it would be strange if it didn't respect that. It was therefore expected that the act of fulfilling the will of British citizens from the referendum on this issue would have some new parameters. The fact that Great Britain was expected to leave the EU and not Europe, as Theresa Mayová said, is one fact. The second fact is that one surprise has come, at least for those bureaucrats in Europe, but not for those who perceive the real political process in Europe. The European Commission did not assume that it would start negotiating in a green meadow. Because it is a hard brexit, i.e. a withdrawal from the EU with everything, a rejection of the customs union and a single internal market. The surprise for the European Commission was. And he and the very term 30. 3. 2019 is a kind of surprise for those who wanted to sweeten the UK's exit. What puzzles me - the zero self-esteem of the members of the European Commission, the zero reflection of bureaucrats in Brussels and the inability to change the declarations of individual EU leaders and to think about what actually caused the exit. I'm really gonna take that lesson from another side. Britain is a country with 64 million inhabitants, a member of the Security Council, a nuclear arsenal and an informal leader of 55 Commonwealth countries, a member of the G7. And I could go on. So it is to try to negotiate with the Great Britain from a position of strength, and also from the position of bureaucratic considerations of Brussels, it is, in my view, a fundamental mistake. And I believe that the Czech Republic will avoid such wrong steps. This is a step on the part of Great Britain, which leads to the restoration of the country's sovereignty. The Prime Minister here gave a particular example of a beaten Czech citizen and a decision by the British courts. I have already informed the Minister of Foreign Affairs about the second case from New Year's Eve or from the night of New Year's Eve on 1 January this year, and this case is also not being investigated. And we must realise that the British courts are conservative, that their jurisdiction will want to be independent so much that some principle of subsidiarity will be completely indifferent to them. When I dealt with the Ambassador of Great Britain, I asked her how much our interests and the social economic status of our citizens would be protected, but also how the United Kingdom would treat hundreds of thousands of British citizens who are scattered throughout Europe. There is certainly one reason for reaching mutual agreement on at least not only the free movement of goods and services and capital, but also the free movement of persons. I was not pleased by Minister Zaorálek when he called Britain's departure an EU failure. He said it was a disaster, and he wouldn't refuse the word tragedy. You know, I think that's just the result of a bad European bureaucrat policy. The EU is in a deep crisis and the departure of Great Britain is just one of its consequences. Without a deep and complex transformation, the fragmentation process will continue. Elections in Germany and France will tell us in what direction. And the process of a two-speed Europe is just a state of affairs. Eastern countries are becoming a pendant for the West, and it is given to us almost everywhere. And not only in the occupation of markets that we have even exported more to before than these Western countries. I found the pompous celebrations of the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Rome Agreements as embarrassing as the embarrassingly small self-esteem of European leaders. I would like to say that it is very important that we create our Czech position at the same time as a common European position, which I do not question, because, of course, common practice leads to a better outcome than when a ten-million-dollar state out of a sixty-million-dollar state negotiates and yet another economic balance. I think that our interest in the European Council and therefore also in the negotiations must be that, and the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia considers it essential that legal certainty be given quickly and unconditionally to nationals of the Czech Republic and thus to nationals of EU Member States living in the United Kingdom and to British citizens living in our Member States, on the basis of reciprocity and non-discrimination. Pulling up on somebody isn't going anywhere. I completely agree with my colleague Dobešová here. I believe that these rights include, among other things, the right to reside, the right to equal treatment, the social rights that will be threatened most. You know how difficult it was to negotiate the position of an international pact on civil and political rights and the European Code. We will have to ensure access to public services, including health care, the right to portability of social security benefits abroad, the right to family reunification and the mutual recognition of higher education diplomas and professional qualifications, because if we want to continue, for example. In the Erasmus programme at their current level and student mobility, we will also have to ensure the mobility of higher education teachers and academic staff. It is unacceptable that when our people are honestly taking money into the British social and health system, they cannot take back anything from them just because they have remained members or citizens of EU countries. Secondly, I consider it essential that the last five-year increase in the balance of trade between us and Great Britain, thanks mainly to the automotive industry, the Czech government should try to maintain this trend and defend the position of the Czech pro-export economy this time, especially because of Czech companies and their employees. Because, while maintaining four freedoms, freedom of movement, the movement of goods, persons, services and capital, which should also apply within future relations between the EU and Great Britain, we also need to maintain this principle. Three. It is really important that the issue of the contribution to the Union budget by 2020 be agreed as one of the priorities. Without this, it will not be possible to continue the individual projects and it will have to be reworked before the date of Great Britain's withdrawal from the EU. I assume that my proposal, which was not adopted because it would break the unified procedure, cannot question the Czech Republic for more than one year. If a single EU procedure is not maintained within one year and individual EU countries start moving towards the UK separately, the Czech Republic will have to do the same. The Czech Republic should also be aware and raise a fundamental question, because we are aware of the fragile situation that arises in Northern Ireland due to Brexit. It's not Scotland as much as Ireland. Since, in particular, the EU's obligation to protect the guarantees provided for in the Great Friday Agreement, the end of the conflict on the Irish island may be very, very difficult. [[19.10 hours]] Fifthly, the KSČM believes that the debate on the necessary transformation of the European Union should not be held in the context of the Brexit debate. If we do not lead it at the same time in the European Council, if we do not lead it with our active approach in the European Parliament, there will not be any change in the current form and decay, not the withdrawal of other Member States will follow. We believe, as KSČM, that it is necessary to make a fundamental political shift towards policies that generate sustainable economic growth, full employment and focus on combating poverty, social exclusion, income inequality, in all Member States, and so on in relation to them. We see Brexit as a challenge and a commitment to building another Europe. We believe that a Brexit has shown the need for a Europe in which equals people will live, who will achieve social progress and peace, who will be able to build and agree to the participation of citizens and citizens also on equal rights between individual Member States. I would like to call, on behalf of the KSČM, for the end of the EU's austerity policies, including the abolition of the budget pact. Instead, we call for public investment in the real economy, which focuses on creating decent and secure jobs by implementing an active policy aimed at combating inequality and poverty and promoting genuine public control of the banking sector and its decentralization. I'm sure there's more to these tasks. One task is now clear. We have all agreed on it and confirm that the Prime Minister's words are that the entire political scene is in favour of negotiating together with the EU and achieving the best possible relations between individual Member States and Great Britain. But I also have to say that the other way, that means preparing for a possible separate procedure, is necessary that it would be gambling with our position, if we did not do so, and forgive me, they did not prepare a replacement program. I believe that there is no point now in formulating a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on the Government report. However, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies interrupt this point, asking the Committee on European Affairs to formulate such a resolution, and after the committee's deliberations, we have returned to this point and consulted and decided on a specific resolution. Mr President, thank you. And I thank my colleagues for their attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-012-281.u23	I see this as a procedural proposal, which means that we will vote on interrupting this point until the Committee on European Affairs formulates a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies. I'll ring my co-workers in the lobby. There's an application for check-out, so I'm gonna sign you all out, please, for a new registration, and we're gonna vote. The motion for a resolution has been made. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? It is voting number 376, registered 86, for 85, against no one, the proposal was accepted. So this item has been interrupted, and under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, I will suspend our negotiations until Tuesday 25. 4. Thank you for your participation and have a nice Easter.
