ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u1	71. Government draft Constitutional Act amending Constitutional Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended Constitutional Laws /House print 947/ - first reading Under the authority of the government, the motion submitted will be made by Secretary Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u2	Mr President, Members, this bill is presented in accordance with the Government's programming declaration. The draft law responds to the current course of adoption of legislative proposals, which were intended to strengthen the SAO's competence but were not adopted. During this parliamentary term, two drafts of laws submitted separately were discussed. First of all, the parliamentary draft amendment to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, House press number 43, and the subsequent government amendment to the Act on the Supreme Audit Office, it was the House press number 610, which carried out the proposed amendment to the Constitution. However, these proposals were not finally adopted because the draft amendment to the Constitution was not approved by the Senate. The newly proposed amendment to the Constitution follows up on the previous parliamentary proposal and is presented at the same time as the bill amending the Law on the Supreme Audit Office and other related laws. At the same time, both proposals reflect the current course of the legislative process and a discussion took place over the aforementioned Houses of Press. So I think that's enough to start with. Finally, I would like to ask you to order this law into committee and release it for further reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Vladimír Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u4	Mr President, fellow Members, the bill is really very short. Only one article amends one paragraph of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, namely that the Supreme Audit Office is an independent authority that controls the management of a) public funds and funds provided from public budgets, and (b) the property of legal entities with the ownership of a state or a local authority. This is exactly what we have already approved in this House on 14 May 2014, which was House press number 43, and there is only a change in the effectiveness of this press, when at that time we gave a period of 3 months and now a period of 5 months is requested. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u5	Thank you. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. Mr. Mr. Plíšek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, I will briefly speak for the TOP 09 MEP on this amendment to the Constitution. First of all, we do not think that amendments to the Constitution, whatever they are to be approved at the end of the parliamentary term, although I add to this press that they were members of the TOP 09 who had already submitted this amendment to the Constitution at the beginning of this parliamentary term in 2014. Then it was long awaited when the government passed the implementing law, and we know how it turned out in the Senate. The government simply did not convince the senators to support this proposal. At the same time, in the debate that has already been held in the previous amendment to the Constitution, we have criticised the fact that there is no unified exercise of state and public control, that a number of audit institutions are actually going to the municipalities or regions without any coordination, and that is why we have also asked for the checks to be unified, because they are really burdening municipalities or regions. We will not propose rejection or return. I think that the press can be discussed both on the amendment of the Constitution and on the implementing law within the Committees. But I would also like to hear from the petitioner here whether there is actually a discussion with the senators at the same time. Because if we come to a conclusion here, it does not mean that the amendment to the Constitution will pass because the agreement of the two chambers of Parliament is necessary here. This means that it should already be clear whether in the present Senate the will at all is to approve this amendment of the Constitution, because we will lose some time with it here, and the question is whether the legislative process will reach its conclusion. We will also discuss the law on financial control in public administration, which is also here at first reading. So it may be appropriate to tie up this discussion in the relevant committees, because it is necessary to really look at whether this law, which has been submitted by the Ministry of Finance, actually unites the performance of control in the public administration and reduces some administrative or other demands on municipalities. So with this condition, we are ready to release this proposal for further reading. Of course, we will see how the legislative process ends. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u7	Thank you, too. I'm registering two more applications. First, Mr Vilímec, Mr Benda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on Mr Plíšek. But first of all, it amazes me that if this point was included as a fixed point, that it is actually not quite the person who should state this law, Minister Chvojka. That really amazes me. Both laws, even with a certain time shift, are actually similar to the laws we were discussing here about a year ago. First of all, this concerns the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act. We know what happened in the Senate. The Senate didn't approve the amendment to the Constitution and rejected the law, the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act. Senators had their reasons. The reasons were obvious. First of all, they pointed out that if there is an attempt to set up a control of the SAO in relation to municipalities, municipalities and regions, the issue of duplication of those checks, which result in a really excessive burden on the controlled entities, among them mainly the local authorities, i.e. the regions and municipalities, should be resolved first. I was attended by a national financial conference organized by the Union of Towns and Municipalities sometime in November 2016, when the senators, and they were senators of the government coalition, clearly stated that they would not support the extension of the SAO's powers towards municipalities and regions unless the control system was simplified overall. That was said, and it was said several times. [[9.40 hours]] Yesterday we also discussed the aforementioned law on the control and management of public finances. At that first reading, it turned out that it wasn't a law to remove the duplicates. So I'm asking what happened after the ten months that the Constitution wasn't approved in the Senate, and when the similar bill proposed in paragraph 72 was rejected, what actually happened. If duplicates have been removed, if at least half a step has been done to change the senators' minds. When we look at the recent review of the Bill on Budgetary Responsibility and the decision of 60 senators to file a constitutional complaint on the matter precisely in the context of disproportionate and excessive interference with the guaranteed rights of self-government, I am convinced that this cannot be the case here. I therefore agree that perhaps we should devote this time to laws other than trying to enforce these laws again at the end of the parliamentary term. I don't want to talk about the next point, point 72, but it's connected. In principle, I must say that when I read that point, I was amazed that it has been so fashionable to caste recently, especially in relation to municipalities, to caste those municipalities according to their size. I do not see the difference between a municipality with 9 000 inhabitants and a municipality with 11 000 inhabitants. At the same time, the city or municipality with less than 10,000 inhabitants will not, at least so far, be burdened by the checks of the Supreme Audit Office, and the municipality with 10,001 inhabitants will be burdened. That seems very strange to me, too. I think this is done on purpose, because of course the municipality is 6,250, and convince 6 250 municipalities so that the Supreme Audit Office can control the management of public funds of municipalities, it is very difficult, so it always reduces purposefully to those 140 and those 140 municipalities are better promoted than 6,250 municipalities. I don't want to talk about it for long, because I believe that if this amendment to the Constitution and the Act on the Supreme Audit Office, or the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, it will hit the Senate anyway. And it's kind of an effort that, I think, won't have any corresponding results. So we also do not prevent it from going to committees. I would appeal to my colleagues in the committees to really weigh the risks and all the costs associated with extending the control of the Supreme Audit Office. I read about last week some sort of analysis of the control of the local authorities. The analysis was submitted by the Ministry of Finance in its external comments on 2 February. The analysis, which is very extensive, and I don't want to criticize it, has shown how many duplicates there are in the controls. So if the situation doesn't change - and the law we discussed yesterday doesn't change the situation - if the situation doesn't change, I consider it absurd that we now extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office in relation to municipalities and regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Sklenák has a factual point. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u10	Thank you. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to respond to the remarks made by Mr Vilímec in the sense that even this point is firmly placed, so there is no Gesture Minister Chvojka. I warned from this place that this week Minister Chvojka has a long-term foreign trip planned, and the House was faced with a decision whether we would wait for the Minister and discuss this point in April or settle for another member of the government's mandate and discuss it today. He has won the view that, given the impending end of his term, it will be better to discuss this point today, so please do not criticize the absence of Minister Chvojka when this House has decided, knowing that he will not be here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u11	Thank you. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda, Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u12	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, first I will briefly respond to the words of the President of the Social Democracy Club, Mr Sklenák. I would expect the Minister of Government, who is presenting a draft constitutional law that the House will decide to discuss at some time, to do so. And at worst, he'll cancel his trip abroad. But I understand that this information has been heard here. At the same time, I think - look at the bench behind me. [[Government]] Are we really supposed to discuss amendments to the Constitution in this state? Why isn't the Treasury Secretary here? Why isn't the Prime Minister here? How come the Home Secretary isn't here? Where are these persons responsible for public administration control? They don't give a shit? Or is everyone on vacation, too? Well, if everyone's on vacation, then I suggest we let it go and slowly go home, because there's no point in us sitting here when ministers don't have to sit here because they all have after the conventions. I get it, they want to rest, there's even a holiday somewhere. Imagine, at my place in Prague 4, it's also a holiday and I'm sitting here. Well, nothing can be done, but it seems really absurd to me that we should be dealing with the amendment of the Constitution in the present relatively recent days by the universal minister, Secretary Marksová, Tominová, sorry, who is already presenting everything here, as we saw yesterday, and apparently became a government expert - and I wish her that - to all the questions that this government is discussing. But then I ask why we're here to worry. At the end of my speech, I will propose that we interrupt until at least half of the members of the government are present here to discuss this in some dignified environment. I don't know who remembers discussing the amendment to the Constitution and the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act here last time. I, when you wanted to enthusiastically approve the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, was the Minister for Legislation and Human Rights, Jiří Dienstbier, said: "Don't do it. We don't know what's going to happen in the Senate. We find ourselves in an absurd situation that the Senate has on one side an amendment to the Constitution, which it may not approve, and at that moment the House cannot overrule it, but at the same time we are sending it an amendment to the law that will implement this Constitution, and we will have to get back to the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, which will be inconvenient at that time, because it will not have a constitutional basis, and we will have to vote against ourselves. Minister Dienstbier laughed at me here at the time and said that the Senate, of course, had everything treated and that it would be okay, and as soon as they passed the Implementation Act on the Supreme Audit Office, of course, the amendment to the Constitution will pass. Well, how did it turn out, who was right? Me or Minister Dienstbier? I had it surprisingly. It happened that the Senate did not approve the amendment of the Constitution as expected. He said a fairly clear position on this: we are ready to extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office to municipalities and other bodies governed by public law in a situation where it becomes clear, and this House has also decided several times in a row when the supervisory powers of other public authorities, in particular governments and its ministries, towards municipalities and regions, will be clarified, and we will then be ready to vote in favour of the amendment to the Constitution, which will extend the powers of the SAO, if it is clear that it is just the Supreme Audit Office that is going to control the municipalities in this area. And don't let five of those checks go in there, and they're gonna say different results. Financial control will say something completely different than she said from the county office and before she said the Home Office control, and after three years, the Supreme Audit Office will arrive and say, well, that was actually all wrong. And those poor mayors and prosecutors don't know how to handle it. [[9.50 hours]] This was the condition set by this House, which, of course, was not fulfilled, yet the House decided to vote in favour of the amendment to the Constitution, and subsequently supported the amendment to the Law on the Supreme Audit Office. The Senate surprisingly did not succumb to this pressure and said the same thing. The government, without taking another step to clarify control in the public administration, not the law we discussed yesterday, will send us the same amendment to the Constitution, which only increases the period of legisvakance from three months to five months, which I call a generous gesture from the government, but I don't think it solves the situation at all. On page 5 of the explanatory memorandum, he will write wonderful sentences, and I would like to quote them: "The newly submitted draft law responds to the current course of adoption of legislative proposals aimed at strengthening the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, but they have not been adopted. During this parliamentary term, two drafts of laws submitted separately were discussed - both the parliamentary bill amending Act No. 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, as amended Constitutional Laws, House Press No. 43, and the follow-up to the Government Bill amending Law No 43 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, House Press No. 610, which carried out the proposed amendment to the Constitution. Those bills were ultimately not adopted. As already mentioned above, the proposed amendment to the Constitution is presented at the same time as the draft law amending Act No. 166/1993 Coll., on the Supreme Audit Office, as amended, and both of these proposals reflect the course of the legislative process and a discussion took place within the Parliament of the Czech Republic over the above-mentioned House prints." So my question, which will now be directed to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and, otherwise, to the representative of the government presenting how they reflect the debate, what happened, what the ministers responsible for lawmaking changed between the first and second round of the amendment to the Constitution and the amendment to the Supreme Audit Office Act, except for the period of legisvacance. I think they haven't changed a damn thing, and of course, no clarification of control in the public administration has happened. It is simply written in the explanatory statement that it reflects the course of the legislative process and the discussion took place. That seems to reflect on Minister Dienstbier's ideas, to whom I blame the whole thing. I think Minister Chvojka only came to this as blind to the violins who took over, and so it fell into his lap. I simply consider it very unfortunate that we open the Constitution five or six months before the end of the term, open the Constitution on a matter where majority consent is in place, and you know that the ODS has repeatedly said that it is ready to support such a bill if it is clear how the other control mechanisms in the public administration are going, and if it is clear that the Supreme Audit Office does not go to the municipalities to assess whether a official from Prague should have just repaired the theatre or cinema in Horní Dolní. I think there were two conditions that we said were clear. Unfortunately, the local representatives know what's needed there, and the civil servant isn't supposed to know. And the representatives of the Supreme Audit Office are nothing but civil servants, although otherwise marked. So there will be no control of effectiveness and there will be clear other control mechanisms in the public administration. I suggest we at this moment, virtually. calmly after Mr Hovorka's speech and, if necessary, others who are enrolled in the debate, interrupted the discussion of this point to the presence of at least half the majority of ministers, which they quietly dealt with, because it seems to me that it is not quite practical to deal with as it was in the summer of this year just before the elections and it is not dignified for this House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u13	Thank you. Since you have proposed a procedural proposal, it is not possible to postpone it, I will put it to a vote without debate and immediately, or read it later if you want a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u14	Please, my procedural proposal was for us to vote before the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u15	Before the end of the debate. Okay, that's a modified procedural proposal. Okay. First of all, I will read that Mr Kolovratník will be voting today with a replacement card number 72. Madam Secretary is reporting with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u16	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to respond to the previous question. There are new things that are in the press 72. Firstly, it is proposed that the SAO should not be controlled by municipalities with a population of up to 10,000. Second, the SAO's first audit of municipalities is proposed not to start until 2019, so two years later than originally proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u17	Thank you. A real point is made by Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, Minister, co-workers, colleagues, that's what made me feel better, really! These are some fundamental changes that, on the contrary, give me great distrust. What is the difference between the management of the municipality up to 10,000 and the municipality up to 50,000 inhabitants? What's that? Well, none! And I still have to respond to my colleague Vilímca. He said that nothing really happened from the last hearing of the bill. That's what happened! The conditions have gotten worse! And they're getting worse! I mean, look what we sent here yesterday for second reading - the Financial Control Act. Please, what are we kidding? It's always the same. I have no objection to the SAO checking municipalities, of course, with the condition of specifying purpose. He's already doing it today, if you don't know, in some areas, he goes to those communities. But let's face it, there's just a lot of red tape going on, a lot of pressure on the community. And you're telling me that in a community of 30,000, like my community, or the community that I represent, I'm not so possessive that those officials are really bored and that I'm just gonna have to handle one control after another on the same thing? [[entertainment in the hall, applause by several Members from various parties]] I've been there. I had control of one thing three times, and the results of each check were different. And in the end, it all worked out that nothing happened. So please, let's think about the cold common sense. And I suggest you support Markův's proposal, Bendův's, because that's not how it works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u19	Thank you. With a point of fact, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to point out that for at least three years, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development is asking for an overview of the system of checks and control reports concerning municipalities. We haven't received anything like this to this day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u21	Thank you. Mr Hovorka is now duly applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u22	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, Dear Ministers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I would like to ask that we say things the way they are. We all know that this law and the following law, the law on the SAO, are connected vessels. And I remember very well the course of the debate and the course of the vote, which was here on these laws in 2014 and later, as well as the reservations of the Senate. First, the Senate complained that he couldn't discuss this law because he didn't have that implementing law on the SAO. And it took a very long time for the law to enter the Senate. And then the senators rejected both laws anyway. So we all know what this is about, and basically a motion for a refund or for a break, a motion for an interruption is basically a condemnation of this law so that it doesn't have time to discuss itself in this parliamentary term. [[10.00 hours]] You know there's an exclusion of municipalities with a population of up to 10,000 in the next press. And I remember very well that even the president of the SAO, when he was at the Audit Office, made it clear that the SAO had no interest in controlling municipalities, small municipalities, that it was mainly about controlling the contribution organizations of municipalities and regions. I remember very well the case of Opencard and other trouble cases, for which the SAO did not have competence. And this law basically says that the SAO will have competence for public funds. I think that's important, and we should be aware of that. And I would ask everyone to remember what they promised the voters before they joined the Chamber of Deputies. It is one of the key laws and I am asking for his support as well as the support of the SAO Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u23	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I see no application, in which case I will vote on Mr Marek Benda's procedural proposal. I'll repeat it for the record. It is a procedural proposal that we interrupt this point to at least half of the members of the government present at the hearing. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this... I'm sorry, I'm filing for your resignation, so I declare this vote confusing. First, I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. I will wait for the number of Members to settle. I will repeat the motion for a procedural proposal, and it is said that we will interrupt this point until at least half of the members of the government are present. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 266, 134 Members and Members registered, for proposal 34, against 86. This proposal was rejected. Since no one else is entered into the debate, I am ending the general debate. And now we will consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see any motion. We'll proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be directed to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 267, 136 Members and Members registered, for proposal 131, against 1. I note that the proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee and the proposal has been adopted. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee as the next committee, and I am asking if anyone else has a proposal on the commandment of the next committee. Mr. Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u24	Thank you for the floor. Since this has often been the subject of the debate of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I propose that this material be also proposed for the discussion of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-003-071.u25	Thank you, I'm registering your proposal. I wonder if anyone else has a motion on the commandment of the committee. I can't see, in which case I'll vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that this proposal be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 268, registered 137 Members and Members, for proposal 129, against no one. This proposal has been approved. I also begin the vote and ask who agrees that this press be ordered to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 269, 139 Members and Members registered, for proposal 107, against no one. The proposal has also been approved. I therefore note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
