ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u1	13. Government bill amending Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members, as amended /German Press 1024/ - Second Reading Under the authority of the Government and this bill, the Minister of the Interior will state Milan Chovanec. The Minister is not interested in opening words. The proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 1024/1 and 1024/2. I therefore now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Security, Mr Stanislav Huml, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u2	Good morning. The Committee discussed this press at its regular meeting and adopted the amendments you have in a separate press read in the Houses system. I will sign up for this press in a detailed debate. There are reasons for this, so you can study it. Everything from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u3	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Zdeněk Ondráček joined first. Please, Mr. Ambassador. You have your word without a phone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, honourable colleagues, the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members - something that is very close to me and which we discussed both on the subcommittee for the police and, of course, on the Security Committee. At first reading, I mentioned some things and circuits that I regret are not included in this amendment. And it was the point that was involved in the death. The minister, if you recall, responded right here from the bench and said, "Yes, we will do the death, prepare it, we will put it into law." So, at this point, I would like to thank the Minister for the fact that such work has actually been done. We do not have to agree on everything with the Army of the Czech Republic, so our concept of death is a little different from that of soldiers in their law. And I think it's a good thing we have a different arrangement than soldiers. Once again, Minister and employees of the Ministry of the Interior, thank you for taking this up, even though the proposal that we discussed in the Security Committee and which is recommended for approval by the Security Committee has an alternative, but I must say that after further discussions with the members, I have improved it, as they say, and I am trying to make sure that there is no difference between the death of a member who serves three years, four years, or five years, or fifteen years in the ministry. The proposal we adopted in the Security Committee makes such differences. Because if a member who served five years dies, he is paid one full salary and then one half a salary for each year. So if a member died after five years of duty, four salaries would be paid to him. Not to him anymore, he didn't live to see it, poor man, but to the family. If I take the average salary of such a young member, for example, CZK 25,000, we are talking about the amount, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, CZK 100,000. [[The reaction from the diaper.]] My colleague here complements me with the 30th funeral. But these are other sections of the Service Act, and even the Home Office thinks about it, and we thank the inside for that. That, too, would be able to pay the Homeland, including sacrificing a few bullets and making an honorary salvo. [[11.40 hours]] The design of what we have adopted on the Security Committee is that a member may be paid up to 12 times in the event of death, but in the ratio that is, i.e. three salaries and then half a salary every six months thereafter. This means that a member of the security forces should be paid a full twelvefold, that is, one annual salary, and that member would have to serve 21 years. And I'm asking, why do we evaluate otherwise whether a member who served five years, seven years, ten years, twenty years will die? Death is death and should be able to find sufficient funds for the security corps, the state, the Czech Republic. And let's believe that we won't need the resources, because our officers won't die in the line of duty, cops, because they'll have good ballistic protection, other equipment that matches the modern security force, and then we won't pay anything. But if he dies, then why pay everyone differently, depending on how long he's been with the security force? I don't think it's fair, and that's why I sort of modified it a little bit. In Article 64 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 3 the word "threefold," which is the current wording of the law, is replaced by the term "twelvefold." And so you don't say I'm a big deal, so I've given the option a second, which is nine times that. But if he dies, let the survivors be paid equally. It's not gonna happen anyway, 'cause every member has a different salary. Of course, I prefer the 12 times option, as we agreed in the Security Committee, I just don't feel that it should be graduated by the length of the service. So that, ladies and gentlemen, is one of the amendments to which I will then apply in the context of a detailed debate. The second amendment that I have put into the system and to which I will apply later is a contribution, I call it a disciplinary reward. The reason why I would want something like this is because this amendment, which we are discussing, proposes a recruitment allowance of between 30 and 150,000 crowns depending on where the police officer will enter the service. Let us assume that there is a long-term base in Prague, so in Prague a new police officer or a new member will receive a full CZK 150,000. On the Security Committee, we discussed whether it should then be registered with the Security Corps for four years, as the proposal said, or eight years. Eventually, we reached a compromise, and that's six years old. So we have the material here to do that, and we're trying to get new members of the security forces with this novel. But if we look at the police statistics, they leave us above all the experienced ones and we are obliged because security - and I say all of us, esteemed colleagues - because security is neither orange in the hands of social democracy, nor blue, nor red, security is only good or bad, as I have mentioned several times, and security concerns all of us, you, your wives, children, parents. So, in agreement with my colleagues, I think we need to look for a way to ensure that experienced police officers don't leave a number of police. And it's not just about the cops, it's about the members of all the security forces, the personnel problems are with the Prison Service. But the Home Secretary is sitting here, so let's talk about the police or the fire department. So my amendment says that on the occasion of the duration of the service of five years and every subsequent five years, five, ten, fifteen, twenty and of course 25, 30, the policeman usually leaves because he has full service, a disciplinary fee, a cash donation, at the rate of the member's monthly service income, will be granted to the member. It's one extra salary. We're not talking about the 13th salary, we're not talking about the 14th salary that we already remember at the police station, but we're talking about some stabilization. And she will appear on the board of Mrs Jana Černochová, who has a different form of stabilization of longer-serving police officers. This proposal, a cash gift, a disciplinary reward, does not make a distinction between whether there is someone in fifth, sixth, seventh or ninth grade, how successful he is, but how alpinist he is toward his superior, and he is rewarded for being able to serve in the Security Corps for five, ten, fifteen, twenty years. A cop waits for it, gets one extra salary. I am not an economist, and I cannot accurately assess some things in economic terms, but I have assessed that it would be about CZK 300 million within one year for the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, which is the largest security corps, the Prison Service, that is in tens of millions. So it's no big deal. But as I discussed with colleagues from the Police of the Czech Republic, they would definitely be interested and it would be one of the elements of stabilization, because many of them would say - it probably makes sense to wait. This disciplinary reward, a cash donation, would not be included in the amount of income for severance payments, it would not have substantially increased anything substantial, nor would it have been necessary for the monthly calculation for vacations, etc. All of this can be treated. So this is the second of the amendments aimed at stabilizing the security forces, maintaining high-quality longer-serving police officers. And you know that I have performed here several times with statistics, a series of Police of the Czech Republic under four years of service - within four years of service - leaving one fifth of police officers, 20 percent will not last even the five years. It is an alarming number when you take the money invested by the Police of the Czech Republic, the state of the Czech Republic in training, equipment and armaments of a newly incoming police officer, when the school lasts one year. One year the man is not on the street, he is studying, preparing for his future career, and after three years on the street he finds out that this is not the right profession he wants to do, and he is leaving. One fifth, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know, I can't figure out what the state's costs are for these people's education. The gun will return the cop, but certainly not the uniform anymore. And these are all the means that need to be counted on whether it pays to invest in police officers who serve five, ten, fifteen and more years. I think so, and we will decide on it at the third reading at the vote. And the third amendment that I am going to apply to and which I have discussed is a matter concerning a special police officer called a risk premium. When the law or amendment to Act 361 was discussed, a discussion was held in the framework of discussions and probably at the Police Presidential Office about increasing the risk premium for police officers. The law says a special surcharge, but excuse me, I'm using a term that most of the guys standing out here either in the front room or on the street understand. A risk premium, because it is a supplement linked to the protection of the interests of the State in which the health or life of a member may be threatened, or other serious risks, or a service with an exceptional psychological burden. The amount of the special risk premium to date was fixed in 2002 when Law 361 was formed and 15 years have passed since then. I'm sure you'll be right that a certain rate of inflation has since been happening, that security situation is also developing not only in the Czech Republic, but especially in the world, we have many examples from a nearby foreign country, what the situation is, and we all have to wish across the political spectrum that something like this had happened to us the day before yesterday in Manchester didn't happen here in the Czech Republic. Because then I can't imagine what would follow with the current equipment of the Police of the Czech Republic and the further motivation for the performance of the service. A lot of cops might have left, maybe not, but there's a risk. [[11.50 hours]] So I believe that after 15 years we can also proceed to adjust the risk contribution in the first and second groups. At the same time, the risk premium was between 3 and 6,000 in the first group, and I believe that to replace it with between 5 and 10,000 for the first group. And in the second group it was from CZK 1 to CZK 4,000, and there I think that the upper limit could also increase to CZK 5,000. As I mentioned in the reasoning of the previous amendment, I am not an economist and I cannot calculate the cost. And that I should not be here from the Ministry of the Interior or from some of your colleagues and colleagues designated as some populist who wants to spend some money now before the elections and promises something when he already knows that the budget of the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior is somehow prepared, which was one of the arguments for which they told me not to do this, because they will automatically kill you, so I am also saying and giving an amendment to the entry into force of this law to be, as we propose, as from 1 January 2018, but with the exception of the provisions of Section 120, which takes effect on 1 January 2019. This means, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Czech Republic will have more than a year to assess the amount of special allowances for individual police forces, individual police units, and will have it for, say, a whole year, or at least the first half of 2018, and to set a new level of risk - the law says special - surcharges with effect from 1. 1. 2019. It can also contribute to what is going on. About getting police officers for the service to Prague, to the Central Bohemia Region, where there is a long-term personnel base. And it can also fill the negotiations that were to take place at the Police Presidential Office with the head of police and union police officers. So this part, this amendment in the event of its adoption, would take effect only from 1. 1. 2019. It's a special amount if you want a risk premium. And once again it will be up to us, colleagues and colleagues, to appreciate the work of the police and the level of risk associated with this beautiful but very demanding profession, the profession, how we who are consumers of their services. Thank you for your attention and I will then apply to the various amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u5	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. We will continue with Mr Procházka's speech, Mrs Černochová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will then later sign up for two amendments, which are referred to as House documents 6434 and 6435. These amendments address, in particular, the issue of the evaluation of police officers and then include technical changes concerning the possibility of using a police vehicle other than a service vehicle. Both amendments contain detailed reasons, but I would like to comment a little on the part of the amendments that address the issue of evaluation of police officers. Both proposed amendments address the issue of the evaluation of police officers in terms of the possibility of entering police officers in a selection procedure for a position of one or two higher rank. At present, it is only possible to apply to such a tender for a higher position if the police officer has achieved very good results in his evaluation. The evaluation of these members of the security forces is carried out by a superior police officer, so the evaluation may not always be completely objective. A policeman who disagrees with the evaluation has basically the only option, and that is to object, but they are often not heard in practice. It is then that service officials use this assessment of police officers as a tool to prevent the career progress of these officers. The reason for this is a pretty clear effort by these officials to keep a member in a position of service in a task force with a lack of members. This process is then a source of conflict. And worst of all, it leads ultimately to the departure of members who are thus losing their motivation for further careers. By the amendments tabled, I propose the possibility of applying for the selection procedure to those members of the Security Councils who are only achieving so-called good results. Then it will be on the selection committee to assess the results of the work of a police officer who will apply for the position. The difference between these two amendments is that the first one allows members of the Security Councils to achieve good results. an accelerated procedure, which means that an applicant with a good evaluation may apply to a selection procedure in a position for which the rank of service is determined by two degrees higher. The second House document allows police officers with a good evaluation to apply to the tender only for one higher rank of service. On the other points, the two documents are identical and, for this reason, I will also propose that the voting procedure be first voted on House document number 6434, which allows accelerated procedure, and only if this amendment is not approved, then vote on the second proposal, which is deposited as document number 6435, which allows police officers to apply for a single rank. If the first amendment is approved, the second amendment will then be irrelevant or unvoting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u7	Thank you, Mr Roman Procházka. Now, Mrs Černochová, Mr Štětina will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think it might be worth recalling at the start of my speech that this government has one more primacy. I don't know if it's the first thing the Home Secretary wants to brag about. This government has the most police officers in custody. I don't think there's ever been anything like this in the past. Maybe Stanislav Gross. If the Minister of the Interior wants to compete with Mr. Chovanec with the late Minister of the Interior Gross today, it's certainly not flattering. It's just an introduction, but I think it has a lot to do with each other. Because if these police officers see the way some of their colleagues behave and see and perceive the political struggles between current members of the government coalition, when they happen to be arresting people from the ANO movement last week, and by chance this week there are house tours of ČSSD members. What a coincidence! So I don't think this is showing any positive signs at all in the appeal of the police force. I think the Home Secretary might know. But back to this standard. As early as February this year, when the first reading of this draft amendment to the Act on the Service of Security Corps members took place, I acted with a warning, and unfortunately I have to repeat this even after the April meeting in the Security Committee, that the members of the Security Corps would not receive any more money after the adoption of this amendment. Destabilized police will certainly not become more attractive to applicants. And social security, as colleagues from social democracy like to talk about it, and there will be no social security for members, on the contrary, those they had as existing will be more at risk. And it's not just the police, it's the other security forces. This government, but especially the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec, has not been able to take one more fundamental step throughout its operation, which would lead to the stabilisation of the security forces, especially the police, although they have attracted considerable resources to the budget of the Ministry of the Interior. Well, I guess we should ask the minister. Where does it show? Is it even visible anywhere? I cannot shake the feeling that this miserable state is only now, at the last minute, the minister is trying to save various populist gestures, such as wage increases or re-payments of overtime. However, none of this is, and I say, unfortunately, a system solution, and the amendment to the Service Act is such a wasted opportunity. Personally, I wish that this was not the case and that we Members should at least take advantage of this opportunity - this has already been discussed here by our colleague Ondráček - because the elections will mean further delay, and before the new government even thinks about what it will do with the personnel situation in the security forces, there will be some time to go again. [[12.00 hours]] When this government boarded, it suffocated and enchanted to improve the amenities of the security forces and stabilize the personnel situation in the security forces. However, this soon proved to be an empty declaration. The reality is that 39 497 people worked in the police last year and an additional 4,000 are due to be added by 2020. However, the problem is that those who join the police often and quickly leave. The statistics have also been quoted here. Moreover, experienced, but unfortunately, demotivated police officers, who are tired of promises and empty gestures, eventually leave the police as well. And yet the figures are clear when, from the beginning of this year, 354 new police officers have been employed, but 475 police officers have ceased their service. Yes, that's the stabilization of the security services, Mr. Secretary? When more people leave you than they come? Even Secretary of Defense Stropnický is better off. And you know what it's worth to me to say it here. It is no secret that the current police personnel situation is tragic and it is not even a vision that this alarming state will improve in the future. Even this novel is not going to do so. Big problems are mainly in big cities, Prague was mentioned here. Of course, this also affects the smaller ones, because there are problems in many departments with the provision of services, and therefore some departments join together. We are constantly witnessing that police officers have to leave for assistance in Prague and other areas from the already staffed regional directorates and territorial unions. For God's sake, God forbid there's going to be an emergency or there's going to be an imminent incident. We would suddenly find that there is almost no one on the streets to help us and protect us. After all, even a slight increase in danger means the deployment of an army in our streets, because the police are unable to secure all their tasks. Unfortunately, the recruitment and stabilization of the police are merely an illusion in the submission of the supposed measures taken by this government and Minister Chovanec. As far as recruitment is concerned, I will repeat myself - I apologize for this - but I would consider it beneficial if the relevant ministers, under which armed and security forces belong, agreed on a single database, so that simply someone who does not meet the conditions for being a professional soldier, but can, for example, be. a customs officer or a member of the prison service or the police, so that it is known about this person, so that he does not escape from the system and that he does not have to report to ten competitions, pass diplomas everywhere, simply fill out thousands of forms everywhere. Of course, I know that this is not a self-preservation solution, but it would, in my view, be a step in the right direction and, together with other measures that would have to be done systemically and not according to electoral preferences, would have contributed to the stabilisation of security forces. I still cannot believe how the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Defence approach dilettantly in the time of the conjuncture and for the ideal and quite unprecedented political consensus of the coalition - opposition on security issues, as you and the Ministry of Defence approach acquisition processes. As I have already mentioned, several billion additional acquisitions have flowed into the Chovanec Ministry, among other things. But do you feel that these funds have been adequately spent? Has the equipment improved, the equipment improved, other police equipment improved? For example, bulletproof vests that can be shot through? Is this really the goal of walking cops and cops in uniforms that don't meet the basic parameters and which can be shot through? Has the shoes that you can walk in improved? Perhaps I would recommend to the Minister that he take one of the shoes that the police are wearing, and that he wear them here in the Chamber of Deputies for a week. To try out how comfortable - ironically, I mean - these shoes are. Because I guarantee you, after a week, the Minister wouldn't think of ordering more shoes of this type at the same company. But there are such little things as criminal police IDs, which didn't even keep color. However, I must admit that the priorities were obvious and new rank labels, new uniforms, leather jackets on police presidium police officers are really perceived and very polite. These are all just examples of how the police de de-stabilized today. The sad reality is that even the officers in the districts have become used to working with outdated computers, and some - believe not - will even lovely remember a reliable typewriter, Minister. Last week an audit of one server came out, the audit has a headline - of course the headline is always supposed to arouse emotions, but when I introduce you to the content of the article, the headline quite fits: barefooted policemen in slightly bulletproof vests. Survey: How has the government cared for security forces over the last four years? What did she do for security at a time when terrorism threatens Europe? How about dealing with the consequences of the migration crisis? At the beginning of its operation, the government set itself five fundamental objectives. Only half of them were able to be filled. The first objective of this government was: to improve the amenities of the security forces. Two: we will stabilise the personnel situation in the security forces. Third: we will fight more strongly against terrorism. Fourth: we will fight organized crime more strongly. Fifth: we will fight racial intolerance. As for the first one - we improve the equipment and stabilize the personnel situation - so fulfilled subject, because last year 39 497 people worked in the police force, a further 4 000 are due to be added by the year. Most of them are to be accepted by the police this year, i.e. in 2017, when 850 newcomers are to be recruited. In the coming years, the number of newcomers should fall. While the plans look good, unfortunately, the problem is that those who get on the shelf are leaving quickly again. High fluctuations are caused by poor background and low salaries. The acquisition. Unfulfilled, the tender is written and the water is flowing. It's the same as the defense. What exactly did the police spend 3.4 billion on? CZK, which she invested between 2013 and 2016? The Police Presidium didn't tell this server, which makes it strange to me that when journalists ask questions that aren't undercover, the Police Presidium is silent. According to the trade unions, he writes this server, and opposition MPs but the police certainly did not spend money on quality equipment and equipment of police officers or police offices. And if there were any purchases, the cops weren't happy. Let's at least name the purchase of bulletproof vests that can be shot through, shoes that you can't walk in. [[12.10 hours]] Next. We will fight more strongly against terrorism. Yes, it could be said here that the Minister's audit promised what he intended, and we are lucky not to have to practice any anti-terrorist exercises. Praise God. Come in. We're gonna fight organized crime more strongly. That was the task the government took as point four. Unfulfilled. Here's what it says: For many years, police have served politicians as an instrument that they exploit in power struggles. The last government is no exception. The internal struggle between Finance Minister Andrej Babiš and Prime Minister Sobotka resulted in police reorganisation. The Prime Minister won. But she didn't bring anything major to the cops. Nothing's changed for the better. In the fight against organised crime, various political interests are still reflected, which make it difficult for the investigation itself. As I said at the outset, last week members of the YES movement were arrested, this week they are arrested and house tours are held with ČSSD members. So if it goes like this, the next week it's going to be yes again and then it's going to be ČSSD or somebody else. [[Loud remarks from the diaper: ODS.]] Next. And here, the minister has met. We're gonna fight racial intolerance. Here really traditional extremist groups made it easier for the police to work when some of the public life withdrew. You know what bothers me about all this? In addition to the government's promise to strengthen the number of police officers, so that there is really no stabilization here, so that those experienced, those who have worked their way up and just got used to a life that is neither in terms of family background nor for their families, so unfortunately these people decide to leave the police after some time. And the fact that Lidl pays better than the state has been mentioned here several times. And I think it's systemically wrong. We all know that, don't we? But back to the current draft amendment to the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members. I will not repeat myself long enough and tire you of all the details of what is wrong with this proposal, but nevertheless allow me to make a few more comments and a presentation of the amendments tabled by me, which unfortunately have not been supported by the Committee on Security. My first amendment, which you will find under number 6273 in the system and which I will join in a detailed debate, leads to the abolition of the proposed introduction of a trial period for six months. You know very well that today there are two types of service - for a fixed period and for an indefinite period. The period of time may be up to three years from the date of establishment of the service and shall automatically be changed to an indefinite period following the successful completion of the examination. It is logical, because in the case of police officers, but of course, other members of all security forces take quite a long time to learn and train in all the necessary things they need to perform their profession properly. And it's certainly not easy because it's not just physical and psychological health and hardening, but of course it's also tactics and methodology of intervention, knowledge of law and form. For example, a cop spends at least a year in school. Another year or two is right in the field and collects experience and improves what he learned at school and during training. But, as is known, the theory of practice does not replace it, so it is accepted into the service for an indefinite period of time after passing the exam. For this reason, there is sufficient time for a new police officer to show up and fully demonstrate his abilities whether he is fit for such a challenging profession or not. If he does not have a job in the service of the State, the service is terminated by the end of a certain period of time. Of course, if a police officer breaks the law, etc., he's from a uniform called. Dressed up earlier. It's perfectly all right. Since Mr Chovanec was not personally at the meeting of the Security Committee when I presented this amendment, I would like to know, Minister, what is your opinion on this amendment of mine. I would also be interested in the opinion of the trade unions and Mr. Police President Tuhý, because although the Minister boasts a consensus and thorough preparation of the amendment to the trade union, I do not know their position and view on the matter. I know, like hell, they're afraid not to open their debts. The ODS has clearly guaranteed that it will do no such thing, but on the other hand, if there are most colleagues and colleagues on this issue in agreement that this Pandořin's box will not open now, then the unions should in some way give us an opinion, an objective opinion through the Minister. Unlike the trial period, a fixed-term service is more advantageous from the logic of the matter, co-workers and colleagues, even for police officers themselves, when a police officer at this time can not only draw contributions from the FKSP, Minister, but, for example, may ask the bank for a mortgage and be sure that the first six months, when he receives, among other things, an entirely inadequate salary assessment, will not be entirely uncertain. After all, we have also discussed several times here the statistics, the unflattering statistics that show us how many police officers are moving to the limit of the minimum of life, how many police officers have already had to declare bankruptcy at some point, or how many police officers have had to, and sometimes illegally, unfortunately, have some extra job to support a family of two. I would therefore like to know, Minister, whether the Minister and the Union represent stabilisation and security for people who choose to serve the state and its citizens. Will the probationary period lead to the attractiveness of work in the security forces? I would like to stress that the armed repressive forces of the state cannot, by definition, follow the same rules as we know them from civil law. These are people who are wearing uniforms, have a certain rank, have a weapon, and are also supposed to interfere with the fundamental human rights of citizens in legal cases, so they have a great responsibility. The Security Corps is based on discipline, orders, orders, law enforcement, discipline, and it is not possible to pretend that it is not, and constantly approach the Labour Code. Again, the same dead end as the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence. Soon no orders will be issued in these congregations, neither armed nor security, all of which will take place at the level of administrative proceedings. Is that what we really want, co-workers and co-workers? We don't! [[12.20 hours]] Another problem I cannot identify with, Minister, is the recruitment allowance. The recruitment allowance, as proposed in the current government proposal, has no ambition to maintain a new member in the service and is therefore illusory to regard it as recruitment. In no way does it affect existing members who have the patience and the firm personal attitude or the conviction that they have endured to us today in the security congregation. In fact, it may threaten to touch even the existing ones, provided that the coverage of the recruitment allowance is drawn from the amount of staff revenue available to such existing members of the security forces, as the impact on the state budget - and the damage that the Minister does not listen to me...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u9	Minister, I'm going to ask you to attend the lecture. Ambassador, don't disturb the Minister. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u10	Thank you. In fact, it may threaten to touch even the existing ones, provided that the coverage of the recruitment allowance is drawn from the amount of staff resources for these existing members of the security forces, as the impact on the state budget is assumed to be zero, according to the explanatory memorandum. Zero impact on the state budget, Mr. Secretary? The minister must be a magician. I don't know now, but please don't look at any analogy with the State Reconstruction that the Minister should be on the same billboards as some of his colleagues in this House. The illusion that the proposed recruitment contribution will stabilise the security forces and reduce the intergenerational tension between new and existing security forces members is exemplary. It's just not gonna happen. Unfortunately, the recruitment allowance will not lead to long-term maintenance of members of the service, nor will it motivate them to perform their duties at the appropriate level required. While the recruitment allowance is accompanied by arguments on the unacceptable, significantly lower starting salary of security guards than for other security workers, this income difference is not addressed in any way. The proposed stabilisation contribution is precisely in the opposite direction. He's demotivating and destabilizing, which is why I propose that he be removed from this bill. But in order not to be accused of just criticizing and molding my political opponents without proposing an alternative solution, I have an alternative proposal, which I propose in two options, namely the introduction of a stabilization contribution that you can find in the system under number 6274 and under number 6275. As in the case of my proposal to abolish the introduction of a probationary period, and in the case of my proposal to introduce a stabilisation contribution, I would be very interested in the position of the Minister, who unfortunately was not on the Security Committee, and the position of the Police Presidium. And I would ask the Minister if he could answer that question. The stabilization contribution is - my proposal aims to appreciate the members of the security forces on the occasion of successful stay in service and to support them in their continuation. Compared to the recruitment allowance, the contribution would be supported by stabilizing members who not only joined the Security Service, but have remained in it for a while and have already done some work, Minister, and this is not only due to the fact that they are going to get in, but to learn something, they are going to do something. Payment of the stabilisation allowance would not create any other conditions such as such. a further stay in service, nor would there be any penalty of the obligation to return the stabilisation allowance, respectively. his relative part, which would make the administration, the agenda, the bureaucracy that would be associated with the recruiter. The incentive role of the stabilisation allowance lies in the expectation of one-off payment of the benefit which would be entitled for the fulfilment of the pre-established conditions, and the member could expect to receive that amount in advance. He'd know what he was getting into. It would not be so decisive at what level of service at the time of entitlement to the stabilization allowance the member is currently in. Anyone would have gotten it, no difference. A stabilization contribution could solve the problem of occupying posts in regions and locations where it is problematic based on previous experience, especially where there is great competition with other employers, including non-state armed forces and forces. And here I admit honestly that I am selfish, because it would be a great help to the capital city of Prague, where, of course, the competition of the various employers is the biggest. And the Minister knows that the base in our capital is really huge. And today we have municipal police on the agenda, and I have to remind you that if we should rely only on the Police of the Czech Republic, we will not be able to maintain security in Prague, because the real base that is here, somehow complements the city police, even if it is a base, but that is what I warned about three years ago, that the pool of suitable recruits for work in security or armed forces is starting to empty itself and that it is necessary to appeal within one of your parties, the ČSSD, to my colleagues from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to try to do something about this. Nothing happened, so the recruitment pool continues to empty, empty and empty, because demographic development doesn't bode well. A member, if he were a stabilizer, would be motivated to place an application for transfer to such a place of employment because he would be entitled to a higher stabilisation allowance. It would also be possible to actually consider writing agreements with members, e.g. that there will be at least another five years in the given place of employment, as has been written in the past e.g. agreements in the capital of Prague, and I think it was also in the Central Bohemia Region, and it was 2009, 2012. The stabilization contribution would also play a preventive role, Minister, because his payout would be tied to success, that is a smooth stay in the service, and the member would know that if he committed any infringement, if the sanctions against him were not incompatible with the service, he would have to wait for the stabilization allowance from the beginning again. The stabilization contribution is therefore, in my view, an appropriate complement to the current "remove past injustices" process, which you often and so much like to use here, because it would establish equal access to all members regardless of whether there are newcomers in the choir or so-called. Hearts, holders. The stabilization contribution would have based essentially on the same incentive effect as the debt claims, with the difference that it would not have had to end the service, but would still have received it during its term. I propose that the decision on the amount of the stabilisation allowance be made to the Director of the Security Corps. It is also justified by the fact that the law does not have to change in the future and can respond to the situation in the region and so on. Indeed, if we want these people to be leaders, to be directors, they should also have this authority. As you know, security forces themselves are closely following every draft amendment to the Service Act, and it is no exception that some of them may start to panic, or at least be in some uncertainty and tension, so that I do not use such an emotional expression. And I really wouldn't like that for the future, Minister. [[12.30 hours]] I do not want to give you all the arguments that are part of the justification for my amendments, but you can find them in the system, but I would also like to clarify what the idea of the amount of stabilisation contribution that would have been paid to the members might look like. The amount of the stabilization allowance could vary depending on the frequency from, for example, CZK 5,000 to CZK 50,000. As I have already mentioned, the decision on the level of the stabilisation contribution should be left to the Director of the Security Corps and would be different territorially and could be adapted more flexibly over time, for example, depending on the security and economic situation in the Czech Republic. In the case of the proposed five-year intervals and the estimated service period of 30 years, the total amount for the member would be CZK 6 times CZK 5,000 to CZK 50,000, total CZK 30,000 to CZK 300,000, i.e. CZK 1 thousand to CZK 10,000 per year. I think it's worth it. Because we really do not live in the illusion that the security situation in Europe, in the world, will significantly improve in our Western civilization. I think we'd all like that, but the development is going in exactly the opposite direction. So we're really gonna need high-quality cops, we're gonna need and we're gonna want to make sure that they have good equipment, that they have adequate ratings, that they don't really take a lower salary than the workers in Lidl. Regardless of the failure in the committee, I believe that my failure with the amendments that my colleagues did not support me was due to the fact that perhaps the Minister did not sit there and told his ČSSD colleagues that Jana Černochová's proposal was indeed a step that would lead to stabilisation. Because I actually see the stabilization in the stabilization supplement, not in the recruitment supplement. So, colleagues and colleagues, you all have a chance to think about the content of my proposals and what I've said to you here. And I want to ask you very much and very much to support these amendments prepared by me, which I will sign up for in detail in the debate, in the next debate. I have no problem with what my colleague Ondráček here has proposed regarding the death toll, and I agree exactly with the risk premium he was talking about, because I know exactly the exact cases where it is totally unfair and unfair. So I think we have a unique chance here at the end of the term of office to actually take that step in favour of the security forces, to ensure not only their recruitment, but, in particular, their maintenance and stabilization. I therefore ask you once again to support my amendments, because they will lead to this desired state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u11	Thank you, too, Madame. Before I give another word, I'll read the apologies. Today, from 11.15 to 13 pm, Mr Marek Černoch apologizes for reasons of work, further extending until the end of the day for reasons of employment, Minister Dan Ťok. From 12 to the end of the meeting of the House, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes for reasons of work. Furthermore, from 14.30 to 21 o'clock, Mr. Jiří Holeček apologizes for family reasons. Today, from 13:00 to the end of the day, Mr Tomio Okamura apologizes for reasons of work. From 14.00 to 19.00, Mr Daniel Korte apologises for personal reasons. Today from 17:00 until the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mr Adámek apologizes, and from 14:30 until the end of the meeting for working reasons, and this is the meeting of the Council of the Royal City of Slaný, Mr Stanislav Berkovec apologizes. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I agree with most of what my colleague Černochová said. Except I always ask myself, when I'm supposed to be here either before or after, whether I should be so verbally... I'm going to cry out the Minister, or whether I should sometimes be like a conciliation person and try to look for the very support. And the cops always said to me, "Slap him, give him, so he knows how we work." I usually choose a different option. Now I would like to say that we cannot say that the Minister has done absolutely nothing in his capacity to calm the situation or to stabilise the security forces, because the fact that he has succeeded or, respectively, will be able to return the salaries of security forces members to their real level by 2009 is certainly a good feat. And I believe that this government, before it completely closes its doors to Strakovka, will certainly come down again and they could raise those members' salaries, for example, from 1 November 2017. I'm sure it would have meaning. And if Mrs Černochová quoted from the server an article by the barefoot police in lightly bulletproof vests, I am glad that she found the article and that she has identified my views as I have said there. Because, unfortunately, this is the reality of how the Police of the Czech Republic works. But not everything, really not everything is the Minister's fault. Some things are just worse from the past, and some things are dealt with only at the Police Presidium, although of course it falls under it. I am not so confrontational because I believe that the Minister will again support my amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u13	Thank you, too. Another factual point by Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, I think that's the obvious calculation of my colleague Ondráček. No, I'm not gonna make fun of this. He actually said it here, but he said it by complimenting the Minister for it. He said the Minister was returning police salaries until 2009. Why didn't the Minister do it in 2013, when he rules here? And there haven't been any changes at the Ministry of the Interior, so I guess the Minister will be sitting there for four years. Why didn't the Minister do it three and a half years ago? Why is he doing this three months before the election? Did you, through the Vice-President, never ask Ondráček that question? And it's not that I'm just criticizing the minister here. I said that, for example, some of the issues relating to the various analyses, the security audits, the definitions of soft targets, the different counter-terrorism measures are okay. I'm not even criticizing the Minister here, and you may have noticed that in the entire term, in a one-time period, or rather, I would say a unique failure at various demonstrations, because I know that there is always a human factor involved. So it's not me who criticizes the minister so I can criticize him for everything. And I'm not doing it. But only if it is pointed out here in any way that hurrah, cops will have salaries at the level of 2009, so I just thought it appropriate to remind you that we are in May 2017 and that this government has ruled us here since January 2014.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u15	Thank you. I'm registering two more factual points. Just for the record, I'm going to be forced to interrupt this point at 12.45 because we have an election point. Mr Schwarz does not therefore want a factual point. Mr Gabal and his factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, colleagues, I would just like to give you a brief briefing through my previous speakers, because they did not notice that the police were not paid back by the Minister, but by the coalition, because it was a coalition working group that agreed to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u17	Thank you. Mr Jiří Štětina, now duly signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u18	Good noon. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, Dear Lords of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, fellow Members, colleagues, I do not know if in five minutes I will be able to say my thoughts, some of which I have written, but some of them are in my head because I have been carrying them in my old man's head for decades. Why do I say that? I'm not gonna play any political games here, I don't need it. And even if I played them, it doesn't matter, 'cause everything's gonna turn out completely different anyway. I am not standing before you here as a person who feels the need to testify here, but as a former member of the Ministry of the Interior, who was rehabilitated in 1990 and who was offered the debts I refused because I thought it was necessary to manage each crown properly. As I can see after 27 years, I was wrong, and I probably shouldn't have turned down the $3,000. But I've been rehabilitated, I don't have a positive illustration, so I can afford to say what I think. But I'm afraid I won't be able to get to that in those four minutes, because I want to tell you the essential facts and figures that, and that maybe I'd end my first performance, because I want to thank the Prime Minister, the Minister of Defence, the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Justice and, of course, the Minister of the Interior, in particular, for sending me all the information I needed to talk about the detention of members at this time, of course, of the police, but of all the security forces. I thank them for these figures, of course I also sent them this table, and, of course, the ministers and Prime Minister know exactly how many members of the armed forces and at what price level they receive the service. I would like to interrupt my brief speech, and I do not think that the Vice-President will agree to this, rather, to engage in elections, because my speech may take ten minutes tops, and I would not want it to be divided into two parts that are unrelated to each other. Is that possible, Mr Vice-President?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u19	I'll ask. The proposal was made to interrupt this point so that the Member could then have his speech in one block. I ask if anyone objects to this procedure. I also ask whether it is possible for us to continue with the electoral points without interrupting the negotiations. Does anyone object? I don't see any objection. In that case, thank you and I am interrupting this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u20	Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-005-013.u21	Now, as I said, I would give the floor to the President of the Election Commission, but before that, I will open up individual ballot points. I'm opening the point first.
