ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u1	216. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 798/ - 3rd reading We dealt with this press on February 3rd at the 54th meeting. The debate has been interrupted, so we will continue. I welcome Senator Oberfalzer here and please take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, who is Mr Tejc, to join the Senator. I would like to remind you that the amendments are in press 798/8. It was delivered on 18 January 2017 and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 798/9. We will continue the debate. I've got five applications for her so far. Please, Mrs Golasowská, and Mr Grospič will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask for the support of the amendment to the Civil Service Act, under the letters B1 and B2, as the numbers of the House documents 5554 and 5555. At the same time, I would like to reply in more detail through the President to Mr Klán's questions from the last meeting. So the amendment under B1 aims to simplify the process of making less significant changes to the systemization during the calendar year. The change in systemization is now an administratively very demanding and lengthy process, both for the individual service authorities that propose a change in systemization, and for the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Finance, which are involved in the change in systemization. Moreover, any change in systemization must be decided by the government, and during 2016 it had to approve a change in systemization at least nine times, which is significantly in proportion to the original plan with one proper systemization per year. Therefore, I propose that those changes to the systemisation which are not expressly mentioned in Section 18 of the Civil Service Act and which do not change the number of officials present in the Service Office should be approved by the State Secretary or by the Service Authority in its superior service office and, if not the head of the Service Office, by the Head of the Service Office. As far as the amendment under letter B1 is concerned, it regulates four headings of change. [[2?]] The first heading is the explicit possibility of a delegation of the majority of the powers of the Secretary of State or of the Head of Service to their representative. At present, the normal functioning of the Office is not ensured in the absence of a service authority, since only a service authority may issue decisions in proceedings in matters of service. The proposed adjustment shall set out the precise rules and procedures under which conditions and to what extent a representative of a service body may exercise the powers of a service body outside the ordinary representation procedure in matters of service. The second series of amendments concerns the introduction of the possibility of a temporary discharge of a civil servant's service in the event of the initiation of a disciplinary procedure. The proposed regulation allows a civil servant against whom disciplinary proceedings have been initiated for reasonable suspicion of the commission of a particularly serious disciplinary error to discharge the service if his retention in the service would jeopardise the proper performance of the service or provide evidence for the decision in the disciplinary procedure. The above procedure is proposed in particular in order to protect the proper performance of the service in the Service Office. The third heading of the amendments includes changes in the legislation on membership of legal entities. The scope of the business of legal persons in whose bodies a civil servant may only sit on the basis of the secondment of a service body shall be extended to all business of legal persons and not merely to commercial corporations. At the same time, it is possible for a civil servant, if he is sent to the institution of the business of legal persons by the service office, to receive remuneration for that activity. The possibility to receive remuneration is proposed in particular in the light of the fact that a civil servant cannot refuse to send and that he is responsible for his activities in legal persons, which may lead to an obligation to compensate for damage. At the same time, these civil servants are subject to increased obligations linked to the secondment. The last heading of the amendments concerns additions which allow the service body to grant, increase or reduce the personal supplement to the civil servant in connection with his inclusion, transfer or appointment to another post of service, i.e. in connection with the change of service. Today, a personal supplement may be granted or amended only on the basis of a professional evaluation or before the first service evaluation. In keeping with the existing arrangements, there may be an inequality in remuneration due to the change in the service, since a civil servant performing the same classification of the same activity and of the same quality and with the same access to the service as a civil servant at a similar post may have a substantially different personal surcharge which cannot be changed. Thank you for your attention, and I ask you once again to support these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u3	Thank you, Madame. Mr Grospič, please. [[He's not present.]] He is excused, so please, Mrs Radka Maxová, and Mr Klán will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Hello, esteemed colleagues. I come forward with my brief contribution for one single reason, which concerns the medical assessment service, and actually the proposal in a comprehensive amendment to extend its critical state by five years. I will no longer say my work here, the opinions of experts, which, of course, have been behind my back all along. I will only read here a letter from medical examiners who are essentially watching the whole case with great concern and want this situation, which is, in fact, not to prolong. For this reason, at the end of my speech, I would ask you to support my amendment under letter D, which gives the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, of course, much less time to stop doing what he is doing there and focus on the conceptual change of the entire medical assessment service. Based on my TV performances, I have received feedback from medical examiners, I am not heard from by the director of the Czech Social Security Administration, I am not heard from any deputy from the Ministry. I will read the reactions of the various doctors here: "Dear Member, I am sending you the results of the activities of the Chair of the Committee of the Association of Review Doctors. The President has dealt with virtually everyone who has the competence of the Czech Social Security Administration and the Ministry of Labour to change the situation of medical assessment services. She didn't miss the Czech Medical Chamber either. The result? None of them will be involved in the medical evaluation. They will continue their current improvisations with the main task - the flow of social benefits must not be stopped even for a second, at any cost, even at the cost of further existence of assessment medicine. The current Minister's view of medical assessment is absolutely misguided, she does not see the problem, she does not want to see it and the question is whether she is able to see it at all. Repeated discussions with the director of the medical assessment service at the Czech Social Security Administration, doktor Biskup, only led to the fact that he explains to us that this cannot be done and why it cannot be done and why it cannot be done in the first place. Perhaps just a provocative transfer of uninstalled systemized medical posts in the medical assessment service with a payroll fund has been suspended to assess assistants. It is a pity that it is not possible to persuade our old and passive colleagues in the medical assessment service to stop writing opinions for just one month and to go to the practice doctors' offices diligently instead and to control the neglected long-term incapacity for work. Of course, all of this is not an official association's position, it is only my personal opinion and information that is happening on this land, and it is only about the current situation. I'm sure it will evolve very quickly. Rescue measures and patches are not going to save anything, and the reasons for the further existence of medical evaluation services may move faster than we can imagine. The new ones will have to deal with the situation differently, for example taking into account the results of the analysis carried out by Deloitte Advisory in 2009. [[9.30 hours]] After watching your performance in the report, I decided to write to you. I'm a senior assessor. I agree with you that the management measures of the resort only delay collapse and are no solution. I have been calling attention to the critical personnel situation of medical assessment services at different levels for a long time. All the problems of the current medical assessment service in the field of personnel security are based on the fact that the competent persons, by which I mean the management of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, do not address the causes of the impending collapse of the medical assessment service. They try to put out partial consequences of long-lasting negative facts that lead to the collapse of the system of evaluation activity. [[Strong noise in the whole hall.]] In February 2016, I processed material that contains analysis and proposes solutions. The basic problem I see in the fact that the medical examiner -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u5	Colleagues and colleagues, I'm really asking you to relax.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u6	- that the medical examiner is not a medical worker, but a civil servant in service within the meaning of the Service Act. The low attractiveness of our field is given by three factors. First, pay grade. We are not included in the salary tables for health professions, so there is also a media and political debate on raising health wages. Second, in a professional capacity. We are civil servants within the meaning of the Service Act, not doctors within the meaning of the Health Services Act. Third, an adverse media image of our activity in the eyes of both lay and professional and unfortunately political public. I processed a critical analysis of the causes and suggested a causal solution. In short. As a system solution, I see the proposal that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will set up an organisational component of the state called the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in its remit to carry out the tasks of medical assessment services. It's an analogy of the Ministry of the Interior Medical Facility. This would make us health professionals within the competence of the Ministry of Labour with all the positive effects. Unfortunately, I have to say that assessors do not have enough authoritarian voice to become an equal partner in resolving this crisis. I sent a draft to the board of medical review services and professional companies and presented them at the gallery meetings. Unfortunately, I haven't been heard, and I haven't even been discussed. Currently, the Czech Social Security Administration has published an implementation plan to address the adverse personnel situation of the medical assessment service. In addition, the Central Director of the Czech Social Security Administration published a proposal for measures to reduce long-term incapacity for work. As a way of reducing long-term incapacity for work, they propose a one-off massive check of compliance with the long-term incapacity for work regime. They want to hire the necessary number of controllers to agree on it. In addition, a one-off massive check on the assessment of long-term incapacity for work and on it will hire the required number of contract doctors. Furthermore, the creation of a standard for the treatment of long-term incapacity for work in a certain period of long-term incapacity for work. I didn't notice any more discussion, possibly an opponent on the part of medical examiners. In the regional meetings of the leading medical examiners, it was simply a measure that was announced. There was no discussion with the medical examiners. In fact, the only voices that can be shouted are screams into the dark. Of course, I have more such letters here, but I will not read them. I am a little concerned about the situation in the solution of medical assessment service because I have a new concept of medical assessment service, which has about 40 pages, where we have several chapters, and we have historical developments, current developments and conceptual intentions for each chapter - unfortunately, of a general nature. Therefore, my fellow Members, I beg you to support my amendment under letter D, which is a condition that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs really wants to extend for five years - so that you do not commit devastation and try to move people who are involved in the medical assessment service. The change is really, you can say, ready, but not as the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs imagines. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u7	Thank you, Madame. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to do this last time, but I did not get my turn. I will therefore use my priority right to propose the legislative technical regulation that is necessary. It's really technical. The original proposal, with which the Ministry of Interior came, contained provisions that it should be possible to provide a certain type of employee with a recruitment allowance of up to CZK 100,000. We have decided that such a recruitment allowance will not be introduced, but it is also necessary to adapt the follow-up provisions so as to make it clear that this point has been deleted. I therefore propose that the following legislative technical amendments should be made in the case of the adoption of the amendments under AA. First, in Article I, point 72 cancel and renumber the following points. Second, in Article I, in paragraph 73, the word "T" shall be replaced by the words "S," the words "U" shall be replaced by the words "T." The designation of subparagraph U shall be replaced by the designation of subparagraph T. The words U to W shall be replaced by the words T to V and the words V to X replace with U to W. As I have already said, these legislative amendments respond to the failure to include the institute of recruitment contributions in the amendments to the Constitutional Committee. Since the institute of recruitment allowance is not included in the amendments, there is no need for a register of civil servants to include an indication of the provision of a recruitment allowance. I apologize for the delay, but it was necessary to load the proposal precisely for legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u9	Thank you, rapporteur. Mr Klán, please. Mr. Plíšek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, I listened with interest to my question, which was raised here when this law last discussed when I had a half-hour speech here. I have listened with interest to Mrs Golasowská response to your systemisation. You know, I feel like someone from the Ministry wrote it to you, I don't know which one, I can guess where KDU-ČSL is. Sounds like it to me. It's just that somebody wrote it that way that they want the systemization, the 18th paragraph, like this. However, paragraph 18 goes against the idea of depoliticizing the state administration. The way it's written here, it would mean you're going to do whatever you want. I'm just saying no. I'm just not gonna support this amendment. I'm saying this straight, because it's against the idea of depoliticizing the state administration. We're just messing around, that's all. It just seems to me that even the government coalition is falling apart in this case. That they're always trying to put something in there, put something in there. That is such a brief reply from Mrs Golasowská that I will not support the amendment anyway. I'm telling you, the answer was brilliantly developed by someone from the ministry, I can guess which one, that's my business, I won't say it here, even though I think it personally, which one it was. [[9.40 hours]] Now I'm going to open one more problem here that concerns the Civil Service Act and the Service Act. It's a clash between the Civil Service Act and the Election Act. You know that there were many civil servants running in the regional elections last year. There was some contradiction between the Civil Service Act and the electoral law. It's a mistake we don't have the Home Secretary here today to shed some light on this. Because this contradiction is still not resolved today, where some civil servants also hold the mandates of regional representatives, even though the electoral law tells them something completely different. They're referring to the Civil Service Act. I wonder if the Ministry of the Interior will shortly, after three months, as experts in that independent opinion say, remove the state official from the position of regional representative. I'm too curious. Because this problem occurs here, and it occurs in the sense that those civil servants were, let's just say, a little bit abused in the election campaign, and they got a lot of preferential votes, and they often won those elections, even though they knew they were in violation of these laws. Because everyone interprets these laws all they want, and that's wrong. As long as everyone interprets these laws as they please, and in their own way, we're in a pretty mess. And if a high civil servant doesn't follow them and says - I'll wait until, as the Home Office, which is the interpreter of this law, whether it's the Civil Service or the electoral law, decides, and there's this contradiction, so if we don't solve it, we're in danger, those civil servants will run again in any election, they'll win the election. And they say, we're not involved in this law, we're just concerned with the Civil Service Act, and we're not concerned with the electoral law, even though they're normally elected in those elections. Not a single amendment solves this problem. It's still unsolved here. I'm making this public so that we can realize that the problem here can happen again, just as it did in the past regional council elections. I note here that there are examples where this is still unsolved. I'm not going to name it because everyone answers themselves, which problem is not solved. You can each look at this and find out which problem is not solved. They all state officials, be it Mrs. Wildumetzová, who was at the Ministry of the Interior and is now the Governor and Chairman of the Association of the Regions, gave up that post at the Ministry of the Interior because she was in violation of those laws. But there's still a case that's not solved. I'm really wondering what the Home Office will do. I am sorry that neither the Home Secretary nor the Prime Minister are here because it concerns the entire government. Don't you realize that? Then it's just so much fun that everyone interprets the law in their own way and says - we actually sort of interpret it, let it go, we don't bother anyone, if we suddenly start dealing with it, we're gonna alienate some of the political movements that are involved in it, for example, what if the elections happen somehow, so we just let it go and make an exception, let it go for now. [[Constant noise in the hall.]] Well, we're not gonna let it go. I'm saying it out here, it's a problem that needs to be solved. Let's think about that, ladies and gentlemen. Let's think about it. And as for the different exceptions that were made here when the service law was formed, you know, the service law was created quickly, imperfectly. And it turns out now that we're putting out all these different fires, whether they're medical examiners or what the Senate itself has been dealing with about the financial authorities and other things, or there's this practice. It's a problem, the law evolves over time, it shows various problems that relate to other laws. But that in some way different laws are interpreted as they want, is really a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u11	Ambassador, I'm sorry to interrupt. Once again, I ask the House for peace. It's the third time today - and the fourth time I'm gonna start naming, so that all those who are noisy will be recorded forever in the Steno Protocol.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u12	Thank you for the peace of mind. I understand that I have said some things here for several times, the repetition is the mother of wisdom, but I had to point out those civil servants and the contradiction with the electoral law. To point out, because when I got my hands on the position of the Ministry of the Interior, respectively. Mr Postránecký, where it is said that the civil servant must choose within three months - I don't know where they found it, but it doesn't matter, they wrote three months. It was written by three independent lawyers who taught constitutional law. And behold, some civil servants still haven't chosen. So then I really don't know how to interpret these laws anymore. He's paying for some people, not some people. Let's really think about that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Plíšek, please. After him, Minister Jurečka will perform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, allow me, on behalf of the TOP 09 MEP, also to comment on this proposal. I must begin by saying that we were rather expecting the government to submit a conceptual amendment to the Chamber of Deputies, because it turned out that in a number of things such as this. throughput of public service posts, such as: constant repetition of competitions for certain places and the impossibility of occupying certain places in the civil service, such as: remuneration, etc., that we get a conceptual proposal. This did not happen and the activities were taken up by the senators, submitted an amendment that actually extinguishes a certain fire in the sense that they come with the exception of education in terms of graduation and teaching sheet for certain civil servants. This applies mainly to employees in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I would rather have expected the unhappy situation of employees in the Ministry of MPSV to be dealt with by the relevant Minister, Minister Marksová. That the senators wouldn't have to deal with it. The Constitutional Committee has recommended that this proposal be amended or amended so that the exception is not unlimited, that there is a certain age limit and, at the same time, the relevant years of practice worked. It will be an option, not an automatic exemption from education. Unfortunately, as the representatives of the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have also admitted, if we had not approved the exemption today, as well as given the poor quality of the Civil Service Act, these positions would not be filled and there would be a risk that certain activities would not be secured under the State Service. And here I am asking, of course - neither the Minister of the Interior nor the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which is largely concerned by this law - what conceptual steps to improve, passability and attractive state services do these ministers and governments intend to take so that either senators or Members of the Constitutional Legal Committee do not have to represent the government. In addition to the issue of the exemption from education for certain professions, as I mentioned, limited by certain ages and certain years of practice, the Constitutional Committee also adopted some amendments which, however, from my point of view, put out fires and cannot address the situation and poor parts of the service law. It's only really about putting out some fires. And it is sad that the government has not yet submitted a conceptual amendment to the Chamber of Deputies to respond to the problems of the Service Act, and it seems that it will not even submit to the Chamber of Deputies during this parliamentary term. Therefore, those amendments that aim to make more use of the Labour Code in certain professions, and not the Service Law, will be supported by us. We will also support Mrs Maxová's amendment to the medical assessment service. It has been known for a long time what a personal - unhappy - situation within the medical assessment service. And I'm amazed that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs only wants to deal with this by extending the time limit when it wants to deal with the problems, and that means we can't wait to find a solution. I'm afraid we won't be able to see him even in the short term. But at least there'll be a clear rule. And if, in the future, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs comes up with the fact that he wants to extend that deadline again, then the Chamber of Deputies should reject this. [[9.50 hours]] I appeal not only to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs but also to the Government to address the critical situation in terms of staffing medical assessment services. To sum up: If the amendments tabled by the Constitutional Legal Committee go through, we are prepared to support this law as TOP 09 and we expect the government to at least prepare a conceptual amendment to the Service Act for the next term, so that the public service is more permeable to outsiders, that is, from the academic sphere, from the regions, municipalities, from the private sphere and so on. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u15	Now I have two factual points. First Mr Pilný and then Mr Klán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I identify with what my previous speaker, Mr Plíšek, said here. It's a good thing the senators opened the Civil Service Act because it really didn't work. Unfortunately, and it is also in the resolution of the Economic Committee, the opportunity to correct it has not been used very forcefully. We're putting out fires that need to be put out, but basically all the ministers, all the leaders of the professional workplaces, etc. agree that it is not possible to get people who have sufficient expertise into the public service, it is not possible to pay them. We've concreted the state administration. There are two basic assumptions. The first is to get the paper, preferably in private school, and the second is to do time over the years, just be in public or public administration. And that's just not enough. The opportunity to open the law was simply wasted, and we're really going to put out fires. And it really needs to be, and in this parliamentary term, unfortunately, it will not happen, this law will have to be corrected very forcefully. In that sense, there is also a resolution of the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u17	Mr Klán, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond to the previous speaker, whether Mr Pilný or Mr Plíšek. I'm fascinated that you claim that the law is poor. But remember who actually prepared him and voted for him. It was you, too. That's right. You'll find that in the House's records. And then I'm fascinated when you say, well, the next government comes up with some complex novel that solves everything. I've got a better idea that when a new government comes in after this year's election, they're gonna cancel the service bill rather than change it around all the time. That's why I'm saying he's ready infinitely. And he always has been. And that's why we didn't support him. When I pointed out that you would concrete the state administration, they said it wasn't true. Everyone said it's gonna be different. Now everyone's wondering. You're all completely surprised at this, let's face it. And it's sad. It's sad. Of course, as I was saying, I commend senators who are dealing with some partial problem that needs to be resolved, or the state administration would fall apart. But then you say here that it was actually badly done, badly prepared. But it makes me wonder that you're saying, "We have nothing to do with this." But we're the ones who set it up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u19	Thank you, too. If there are no factual remarks, I will ask Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u20	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, I would like to make a brief comment on some amendments, particularly those tabled by Mrs Golasowská, which are B1 and B2. I think the Civil Service Act has brought quite a lot of demands on us. I have six service offices within the department that I am entrusted with, so in order, they are thousands of people we have under this law. And when we sat repeatedly in meetings with the leaders of these service offices, we went through what this law brought, let's say, for illogical complications and deterioration of even the space for conceptual work, when we made some managers into autograph machines and the like. I will admit quite frankly, we as a resort have been very much involved in the preparation of some of the amendments that will be voted here today. As for the B1, which has been mentioned here, this is a question of a certain systemization that may not be approved by the government. We are really talking about transfers of people, officials, where, for example, at the Czech Cadastral Office or at the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, the Head of the Service Office needs to resolve the systemization at the level of the officials, so that he can do it in agreement with the State Secretary and Deputy Minister for Civil Service. When the government does it, it's a fairly long process. I think they're levels where I would refuse to talk about it being the politicization of the state administration and all that. It's just a certain management operation that we're allowing. As far as the remaining amendments are concerned, we are discussing the possibility of delegation of certain tasks in the case of, for example, a longer business trip to the Head of Service so that he can appoint his representative. I think it's logical stuff. And I would ask you to really support the amendments that Mrs Golasowská has read, because we have also discussed this with the other ministries. Indeed, these are things that stem from the stability of the state administration here, but to say that there is also some efficiency and a certain ability to manage, so that we do not just make those people who are overwhelmed by administration, signatures, tenders, but that they also have room for some conceptual work and some things can be delegated, for example. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u21	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask who else is reporting for the debate. If there are no more applications, I am done with the debate. I'll ask the senator's final words if he wishes to speak. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u22	I'll be very brief. The debate was comprehensive at all stages of the House negotiations. It is about a year since I tabled this proposal in the Senate, and I want to point out, as I do on every occasion, that on 30 June, those civil servants who will not be given the opportunity offered by this amendment will have to end, thereby losing a large number of employees and finding themselves in trouble. I consider this particularly serious in the case of social security management, because this is a service for a significant proportion of the population and it would be unpleasant if it were to agitate for a period of one or two months. If you approve this proposal today in some form, the Senate will be on the agenda in April. If I add a deadline for the President, we are in the second half of April and only a little more than two months will remain until 30 June. Those people at those offices are waiting to see what happens to them. This will certainly be good news if this amendment passes today, especially with regard to these civil servants, so that they can go to the state service. That's all I'm gonna keep. Thank you for your attention and for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u23	I'll ask the rapporteur for the guarantee committee. He doesn't want the final word. After that, Mr Bendl - the Committee's rapporteur... does not wish to speak. Neither is Mr Kučera as rapporteur. And neither is Mrs Maxová. In that case, I ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the draft procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u24	The honourable Member, my fellow Members, has discussed the draft procedure and proposed the Constitutional Committee, and you will find it under press 798/9, on 26 January 2017. The procedure is such that we have usually put forward, if there are competing amendments, we have placed the one that is wider and we will vote on it first. [[10.00 hours]] This means, firstly, that we would vote on proposals for legislative technical amendments. Then the proposal D, these are the terms of the medical assessment service, then the AA proposal, which is competitive with this proposal, we would, of course, only vote when the amendment under letter D was not adopted. Subsequently, we will vote on Amendment AB, AC, B1, B2, C2, C1. C2 and C1 are competitive because C2 is wider. And then we would vote in the tenth vote on the law as a whole. Of course, before each vote, I would say not only the opinion of the committee, but also briefly what is factually involved in this particular proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u25	Thank you, rapporteur. I'll ask if anyone wants to go to the procedure or make an alternative proposal. It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the proposal for a procedure, as presented by the rapporteur. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees with the draft procedure. Who's against it? It's vote number 31, registered 165, for 159, against no one. The draft procedure has been adopted, so we will proceed according to it. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u26	First, we will vote on the legislative technical regulation that I have read today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u27	Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with this proposal. Who's against it? It's vote number 32, registered 166, for 163, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u28	We will vote on the proposal under letter D, this is Mrs Maxová's proposal. If it is not approved, we will vote on a competitive proposal under the letters AA. This is a medical assessment service, i.e. an exception for age. That means Mrs Maxová's proposal, letter D. The Constitutional Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u29	Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 33, registered 165, for 96, against 45. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u30	In this case, we will no longer vote on the AA proposal, but on the proposal... I'm sorry, we will vote, but only in the wording of proposal D. That means he won't be all of it. So I apologize for the confusion. We will vote on the proposal tabled by the Constitutional Committee, as amended by proposal D.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u31	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 34, registered 167, for 161, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u32	We will vote on the proposal under the letters AB, together with one vote. It is an institute which allows, exceptionally, for a limited period of time to fill a post of employment. The Constitutional Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u33	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote is number 35, registered 167, for 165, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u34	The fifth vote will be on the AC proposal, together with one vote. It is a draft constitutional law committee that narrows down the original Senate proposal and sets a limit for an exception of at least 50 years of age and at least 20 years of practice. The Constitutional Committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u35	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 36, registered 167, for 160, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u36	We will now vote on the amendment under B1. It is Mrs Golasowská amendment and concerns dislodgement, i.e. the possibility of a change in the systemisation, during the calendar year, would be approved under certain conditions by the Secretary of State and provided that the number of persons presented does not change. The Constitutional Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u37	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 37, registered 167, for 62 against 52. This proposal has not been adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u38	If there are no objections, we would also vote on the amendment under letter B2, also Mrs Golasowská proposal. The representativeness is dealt with, the scope and conditions of representation are specified, the conditions of discharge, for example when initiating a disciplinary procedure. The Constitutional Committee has not adopted an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u39	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 38, registered 167, for 116, against 1. This proposal was adopted. Next, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u40	We will be voting on proposal C2, this is Mr Vondráček's proposal, concerning the change in the salary rate and the award of remuneration. It's the wider version. If it is not adopted, we would vote on C1. The opinion was not adopted by the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u41	I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 39, registered 167, for 127, against 19. This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u42	In this case, therefore, the C1 proposal will be unvoting and we can vote on the bill as a whole if there are no objections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-002-216.u43	I believe that we have voted on all the amendments that have been put to the vote. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Senate bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended, according to the House press 798, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 40, registered 166, for 162, against no one. This proposal has been adopted and I note that we have agreed to the bill. I thank the Senator and the rapporteur. Let's keep going. I'm gonna read an apology. Mrs Válková today by 10 o'clock for health reasons. Mrs Rutová today from 14.30 to the end of the day for health reasons, and Mr Josef Novotný from 13.00 on account of working outside the Chamber of Deputies. [[10.10 hours]] Let's continue with the point.
