ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-004-014.u1	14. Proposal for the establishment of committees of the Chamber of Deputies The Chamber of Deputies, on the basis of Section 32 of the Rules of Procedure, must establish a mandate and an immune committee, a petition committee, a budgetary committee, a monitoring committee, an organisational committee, an electoral committee, a committee on European affairs and other committees on which it shall act. I merely remind you that we have already established and established the mandate and the immune system. And for your information, in the last parliamentary term, economic, constitutional, security, defence, social policy, for science, education, culture, youth and physical, for public administration and regional development, for health, for the environment, for the foreign and agricultural committee. Now I think there is room for your proposals, so I am opening up a debate and I ask Mr.Faltýnek's Chairman to introduce us to the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-004-014.u2	Good afternoon, fellow Members, Mr President. Let me propose, on the basis of yesterday's agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, to set up the following committees: the Organising Committee, the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Elections, the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Rights, the Committee on Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Social Policy, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Committee on Health, the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Agricultural Committee. It's basically a copycat of the last term. And the mandate committee was set up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-004-014.u3	Thank you. I will ask who is next reporting for the debate. If not, I am done with the debate. So we have only one proposal, and that is actually the same situation as the last election period. So the motion for a resolution would be: "The Chamber of Deputies shall establish: I. the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Budgets, the Supervisory Committee, the Organising Committee, the Election Committee, the Committee on European Affairs; II. and the following other committees: the Economic Committee, the Constitutional Committee, the Committee on Security, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Social Policy, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Committee on Health, the Committee on the Environment, the Foreign Committee and the Agricultural Committee.' [[13.40 hours]] If no one has anything to do with this motion for a resolution, we can vote on it. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 14, registered 188, for 183, against no one. The proposal has been adopted and I note that we have set up the relevant committees. That concludes point 14. I will read the apology of Mrs Golasowská from 1:30 to the end of the negotiations. Yes, until the end of the meeting. Opening point
