ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u1	83. Proposal of Members of Stanislav Polčák, Jan Chvojka, Pavel Blažek and Jan Farský to issue a law amending Act No. 182/1993 Coll., on the Constitutional Court, as amended /German press 232/ - first reading We discussed this House press on 13 July 2016 at the 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when, in the absence of the appellants, we interrupted the discussion of this point. We received the Government's position as House Press 232/1. I will ask the appellant to present the proposal to Mr Jan Farský. And we will have to decide on another rapporteur, because Mr Lukáš Pleticha is duly excused. Since this is the Constitutional Court Act, I'm going to ask the representative of the Constitutional Legal Committee to propose... My colleague, Mr Marek Benda, is prepared as rapporteur, so we will be happy to use him if the House gives its consent, which we will decide in the vote, to make Mr Marek Benda the rapporteur instead of Mr Lukáš Pleticha. I have begun the vote and I ask who is the rapporteur for this change. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 117, 88 for 73, against no one. The rapporteur's amendment has been made. So at this point, I will ask my colleague Farský to make a proposal. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after a very long time a few years, we have a press meeting that proposes an amendment to the Constitutional Court Act. It is a change that we have tabled as members of the Constitutional Legal Committee composed of Mr Polčák, Mr Chvojka, Mr Blažek and myself and is based on what we discussed in the Constitutional Court. It proposes a simple matter, namely that constitutional judges, after their term of office has ended, will not leave completely uncaptured, but the knowledge that they will continue to provide from the functioning of the ten- or twenty-year-old Constitutional Court, which they are taking away. And, in order not to be merely an honorable function, we propose that by becoming emeritus, their salary, which will be given to them after their end of the term of office by the Constitutional Judge, be equal to one third. Emerit will not be appointed automatically, but at the request of the President of the Constitutional Court. [[10.00 hours]] And what do we expect from them? Definitely cooperation with the Constitutional Court in the activities of publication, lecture, conference, representation, international. Of course, we expect them to participate in preserving historical memory. The Constitutional Court is a stabilizing element of Czech legislation, a guardian of constitutionality of laws, and it is certainly good if those which decision-making processes that have been going through there in the past need not be repeated, it is difficult to find out if it is possible to involve a former, emeritus constitutional judge who has already dealt with these issues. They can, of course, then participate in the consultation of expert opinions, experts, help to cooperate in the teaching of judges, the education of judges, and may comment on proposals to amend the Constitution and constitutional laws. In a way, it is also very conservative in that it expresses a certain relationship with those who have devoted themselves to the highest level of Czech constitutionality, supervision of constitutionality, compliance with laws, and that these people do not go into the vacuum after the end of their mandate, but their experience, which is small, and in which, say, the state has invested considerable funds, and they can still do much work to the state. So that's what's proposed. At the time this law was brought forward, this would apply in the event of their request to become emeritus, so it would concern a total of five constitutional judges. The impact on the state budget would therefore be minimal. I think that the value we gain by this and the symbol, the message that we send to the constitutional judges, that their activities are appreciated and are not only there for the ten, in the case of two mandates of twenty years, but that their abilities will continue to be appreciated, I think that they will be greatly paid for that amount. I'm not going to enter into complete precision. Of course, there is some incompatibility if the constitutional judge, after his mandate, became a judge, an assistant judge, a prosecutor, or further in the state sphere, could not become an emeritus. But that only comes out if he became an emerit and at that time he was no longer connected with the state, so his knowledge is a way to use it in this way for further benefits of the state and the Constitution. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] This proposal is therefore tabled here, and the Government has given a disagreeable opinion on it. The comments she made are easily removeable by legislative amendments in the context of the second reading. This is merely a clarification, and in this I would like to ask that this law be released into committees and second reading. Thank you for your attention and attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u3	I thank the representatives of the plaintiffs and ask the rapporteur, Marek Benda, to present the news report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u4	Mr Vice-President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this morning's atmosphere is not quite working here. It seems a little tired. However, print 232, Proposal of Members of Stanislav Polčák, Jan Chvojka, Pavel Blažek and Jan Farský for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 182/1993 Coll., on the Constitutional Court, as amended, this law was brought here on 13 June 2014. So it was more than two and a half years before we got to the hearing. I think that, in itself, shows a little bit how seriously the government coalition is taking parliamentary proposals. Even the parliamentary proposals in which Members across the political spectrum, including government Members, are signed. I think it is a shame and that we are exactly in a situation where there is probably no time to negotiate this bill, because it certainly deserves some cleaning and cleaning. On 15 July 2014, the Government adopted an opinion on this proposal which you have in which it expressed its opposition to the draft law. But let's just say, such careful disapproval. On the one hand, she said that she did, in fact, it would be reasonable for a position of an emeritus judge of the Constitutional Court and a college of emeritus judges of the Constitutional Court to exist, but at the same time she summed up individual, say partial objections to this proposal and, on the basis of them, expressed her opposition. So much news report, then I'll sign up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u5	I thank Mr Marek Benda for the news report. I'm opening the debate. The rapporteur is the first to enter it, and I do not have written applications yet. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on what I have partly said in my report. It is a real shame that it took so long to get on the bill, because I feel that more or less everyone was interested in discussing the proposal and that it deserved to be discussed by this House. And he's with a big question mark if he can still make it. There are really some problems and doubts that I would express over the partial doubts expressed by the government, which I might have expressed myself. For example, I have no idea why the surcharge should only work during a period when the judge, who is no longer a judge of the Constitutional Court, is retired. Why, in some exceptional situation, could not exist even in a situation where, for example, he will not be retired when he is still in active position, for some reason he will not need to work actively, but here we suddenly forbid, we say that the condition for him to become this Emeritus Judge and be able to receive an extra fee is that he is retired. This seems to me a strange and dubious concept, which I would like to change at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. I think we can order the bill, it's really not dramatic budget demands. It would certainly be wise to establish a college of emeritus judges of the Constitutional Court. Whether or not there should be an extra charge, I think that's the thing that we're supposed to talk about in a fundamental way on the Constitutional Legal Committee, to what extent, under what circumstances. Because, of course, these, in quotation marks, debts are always a little dangerous. We well know that judges have been walking so repeatedly for the past 25 years that it would not be bad if all judges had them, far from being just judges of the Constitutional Court. And I just don't want to open up some Pandořin's locker that sometimes opens up this way. But I think we deserve to order the motion after almost three years of being here, to the constitutionally-legal committee, to try and deal with it in some way. It is with a question mark whether in the form in which it was presented or in some form slightly narrower. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u7	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Who's next in the debate? I don't see anyone. Yes, Mr Mihola reporting. Prime Minister. Mr. Mihola, please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask for a break in the KDU-ČSL meeting on this issue for 55 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u9	Can I shorten your break for 51 minutes? Because we have a fixed point for 11 o'clock, and I wouldn't want to interrupt the House's decision. So, yes, yes, yes, in that case, I'm declaring a break by 11 o'clock, and we'll continue at 11 o'clock with point 210, print 996. At the same time, I interrupt item 83, we will decide to complete it later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-005-083.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 11 o'clock. We will continue the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, with a fixed point, which is the point
