ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u1	183. Mr Vít Kaňkovský proposal to issue a law amending Law No. 268/2014 Coll., on Medical Devices and on Amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended / House printing 1020/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 1020/1. I prosit that the motion put forward by the appellant Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u2	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I want to thank you first of all for supporting the inclusion of this press in today's meeting yesterday. I am very well aware of how difficult it is to set priorities in the press meeting today. However, the amendment I am presenting is not one of the political issues that should arouse passion here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. The reason why I initiated negotiations with the Ministry of Health over a year ago with a view to amending Act No. 268/2014 Coll., on medical devices, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, was triggered by a response from the health public to the practical effects of the Act in practice, namely in the field of maintenance and servicing of medical devices and also instructions for working with them. I have experience in this regard directly from our hospital, where the department of medical equipment operates at a very high level, but this information was also confirmed by health technicians across the Czech Republic and representatives of the Czech Society for Health Technology. The fact that we have adopted, among other things, provisions in that law which declare the obligation to carry out all the servicing or maintenance of medical devices only by the manufacturer's representative or by the person appointed by him, as well as with the instructors, has proved to be extremely unfortunate. On the one hand, there has been a not insignificant increase in the cost of medical facilities to carry out compulsory maintenance and service interventions, but also in the even higher cost of compulsory training of health professionals for work with medical devices, which must now be strictly provided by the supplier compared to the previous condition - and this is a big problem. While the supplier had previously trained a medical professional who continued to train the incoming employees, unfortunately today it is different. In particular, due to the fluctuations of health care workers, the area of instruction became a very costly obligation of health establishments with the validity of that law. In addition to financial costs, it is also necessary to see an increased personnel burden on health establishments, which must ensure maintenance, service interventions and instructions from manufacturers. This, too, is a logistically very demanding activity. In addition, the practice has shown that suppliers' representatives are not sufficiently staffed to be able to provide all these activities as soon as possible, which is particularly important for service activities. It is common for an indispensable medical device to be out of service for several days, but sometimes even several weeks, which is an unenviable complication for a medical facility, which can often lead to a risk of health care provision. And I want to remind you that it's far from just hospitals. We also have this information from outpatient workplaces. There are also indications that certain health establishments do not fully carry out their duties in this area for fear of financial implications, but thus expose themselves to the risk of imposing a high fine. And I'm asking if it's right for us to know that medical facilities don't have a chance to fully comply with the diction of the law so that we don't act. For the reasons set out above, there was a clear need to amend the said law in order to remove the unfortunate treatment of medical devices, which unnecessarily drains funds from public health insurance and burdens health care establishments and personnel, resulting in further cost increases, not to mention the frustration of medical personnel. I believe that the Chamber of Deputies will be honored if we can adjust the said part in this law, which we simply did not fully achieve in 2014. Since it took months with representatives of the Czech Society for Health Technology and the Ministry to agree on a substantive and legislative solution, the amendment is only presented now in the form of a parliamentary proposal. And now specifically on the proposed adjustment. The proposed proposal is intended to simplify service providers of health services, which is the professional maintenance and repair of medical devices, since the current regulation is restrictive in the sense that service and maintenance, including mandatory revisions, can only be carried out by a representative of the body supplying the medical devices to the health service provider. The proposal extends the power to perform the service of medical devices as well as to providers of health services, whose employees must meet the same requirements as employees of medical devices. It is always the responsibility of the manufacturer of the medical device whether it will allow another person, such as an employee of the health service provider, to perform the service or only the person responsible for it. In addition, there is the responsibility of the health service provider himself to employ sufficiently qualified and erudized personnel to carry out this. To providers of health services, respectively. its employees, and the private body providing the service of medical devices are thus placed the same requirements. A similar problem is also in the case of briefings. According to the current wording of the Act on Medical Devices, briefing can only be carried out by a person who is taught exclusively by the manufacturer. This legal obligation has caused a disproportionate financial burden not only on health service providers, but even on healthcare operators, an importer, distributor, authorised representative, even in terms of its feasibility. [[13.10 hours]] In practice, this means that every supplier's employee and health service provider must be trained only by the manufacturer at the moment. For example, if taken into account. the situation where the manufacturer is located outside the territory of the Czech Republic and training on instruction can take place with the provider several times a month due to staff fluctuations, this obligation results not only in higher financial costs but also in excessive workload of interested parties. It is therefore also proposed to extend the powers to carry out briefings not only by the manufacturer's representative but also by the authorised person, or by the authorised representative of the manufacturer or by the authorised person. In practice, this means that the supplier's representative can train the authorised person of the medical facility, who will continue to train the incoming staff. As regards the calculation of the savings that will be saved from public health insurance by the adoption of that amendment, and health establishments will be able to use them for medical activities, this is rather difficult, but only an increase in the cost of medical devices for briefings after the adoption of Act No. 268/2014 Sb. is estimated to be CZK 235 million throughout the Czech Republic. For service and maintenance it is then about 70 million crowns per year. However, according to the Czech Society for Health Technology, this amount is actually much higher, respectively. it would be even higher if all medical facilities strictly followed the law's diction. The submitted amendment adheres consistently to the defined issue that I have already mentioned, namely service, maintenance and instruction in medical devices. It does not interfere with other areas of this rather extensive law. In addition to solving the problems already mentioned, the proposal also contains a few terminology adjustments that required practice. Due to the relatively simple scope of the amendment, which will very much help the functioning of health establishments, it is proposed to discuss this law in accordance with § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. to give consent to this law at first reading. I know that some Members' clubs are considering filing or applying the veto for further discussion of this press under Section 90, which is why I would like to make a proposal in the general debate to shorten the time limit for committee discussions if the veto were to be applied. Ladies and gentlemen, we rarely have the opportunity, as in this case, to help the practical operation of our medical facilities in a clear way. Let us use it especially now, when we are dealing with a lack of medical personnel. It'll be a very good signal for our paramedics, I think. Thank you for your attention and for the possible support of this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u3	I thank you and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Soňa Marková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u4	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice day, ladies and gentlemen. It must be stated that the present proposal does not really bring about a systemic, complex or, at first sight, a fundamental amendment to Act No. 268/2014 Coll., about medical devices, but it is still a proposal that deserves our attention. The proposed proposal limits the current conditions for setting up professional maintenance and repairing medical devices, which are set up so that only the representatives of the private body that supplies the medical devices to the health service provider can now carry out this service. An analogically strict then is also the modification of the implementation of the instructions, which can only be performed according to the current modification by a person who is taught exclusively by the manufacturer. Both of these conditions are too strict and at the same time financially burdensome. By design, the petitioner intends to extend the power to perform the service of medical devices as well as to providers of health services, whose employees must meet the same requirements as employees of private bodies providing the service of medical devices. On the basis of this proposal, the person who will be trained by the manufacturer or by the authorised person or, where applicable, by him/her will be entitled to the instruction. the authorised representative of the manufacturer or the authorised person by him. Although I support the proposal, I have two minor reservations. The most important one concerns the proposed procedure under Section 90 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended. Approval of submitted materials in this mode shall not be a standard process. Our Rules of Procedure therefore place particular emphasis on the justification of such a procedure and bind it to a relatively substantial restriction. Of course, the petitioner is aware of the responsibilities of reasoning and tries to file them, no doubt. However, this reasoning is basically shrinking, in quotation marks, into the intention to approve the draft quickly, because it would be worth it, and between the lines can be read: Because in less than five months we are finished and we would like to make it. However, the approaching end of the parliamentary term should not serve as a blank cheque to all of us, that we will limit the negotiation procedure, that we will limit the professional discussion in the committees, that we will avoid making amendments. The 1020 House press has the advantage of being very closely focused, and vice versa, if its conclusion had spread, it might have been harmful. But it doesn't change my sigh. The second point is more specific, which will be shown by the deficiency mentioned above. In the adjustments to Section 67, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 1, i.e. electrical pressure and gas revisions of medical devices, where conditions are newly laid down only for devices firmly connected to the source of electricity. If we were formalistic, we could also read this amendment by excluding the means that are detachable from mandatory electrical revisions according to other regulations. Yes, it is certainly formalism and language interpretation, but perhaps this regulation could be clarified in the course of standard negotiations, or it would appear that it does not bother us, but we should be able to discuss it. However, I believe that, despite the above, this is a very rational proposal which limits the exclusive right of manufacturers to carry out the servicing and repair of medical devices and, under precisely defined conditions, grants this right to health service providers. The proposed amendment also makes it possible to carry out instructions easier and, in my opinion, the proposed changes do not reduce the quality of services carried out. On a general level, this is an adjustment that goes in the right direction, and for this reason, I recommend that the draft law be approved, including an accelerated hearing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u6	Thank you for the floor. As the petitioner has already announced, we have been communicating on behalf of two MPs, ODS and TOP 02, and I am vetoing the proceedings under Section 90. At the same time, I say that we will not be vetoing a reduction and we agree to a reduction in committee discussions for 20 days. I agree that this proposal is going in the right direction, we wanted to be able to adjust some small things in the expert discussion in the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u7	Okay, I'm registering the veto on Section 90 para. 2. And in the context of the general debate, Mrs Pastuchová is still registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u8	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I know I'm the last one and you're looking at the clock, but let me say something about this. I myself have been in charge of safety-technical controls of devices for a long time, so I know the law, and I must say that I am glad that the veto law has been exercised, because I think that even though I identify with the proposed changes, I think that the law, when it is open, could also admit other changes that would save health care institutions further considerable funding. [[13.20 hours]] Furthermore, I think that Article 65 (2) of the EC Treaty could be amended. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 (3) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 4, I have the amendments prepared, where I think it would be nice to release the passage 'Unless otherwise specified by the manufacturer', because the manufacturer will always make an effort to do so only he, which is very expensive for health care providers. Furthermore, I would like to discuss the retention of safety-technical control protocols, because there it sometimes seems unnecessary and unnecessary. By going to the committee, I will not comment on this any further, and I will save it for the committee's expert discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u9	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the appellant. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u10	Colleagues, colleagues, as I have already announced, I would like to ask you in the general debate to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 40 days, i.e. 20 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-007-183.u11	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I am not registering any further applications, in which case I am ending the general debate. I am asking the appellant and rapporteur for the final vote. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. And I'm asking if anyone else has a motion for a warranty to the guarantee committee. It's not like that. I shall therefore vote on who agrees that the proposal put forward should be ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. Initiating the vote and asking who agrees with this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 171, 105 Members and Members registered, for proposal 79, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment of the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see another suggestion. In that case, we will vote on the last proposal that has been made in the general debate, and that is a reduction in the time limit for discussion to 20 days. Initiating the vote and asking who agrees to shorten the deadline, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 172, 106 Members and Members registered, for proposal 82, against no one. I note that this proposal has been approved and that the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 20 days. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. And on the basis of the previous agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, I am interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to 6. 6. 14.00. Thank you, and I wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
