ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-006-041.u1	41. Government bill amending Act No. 300/2013 Coll., on Military Police and on the Amendment of Certain Acts (the Military Police Act), as amended /German Press 973/ - First Reading It's also an interrupted point. We dealt with the press on 11 January when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that Minister Stropnický, the Minister of Defence, and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Václav Klučka take his place at the rapporteur's table. We will continue with the debate, but I do not have one entered into the debate. Anyone reporting for the debate from the scene? If this is not the case, I can end the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in the final word. Yes, the Minister's interested, logically, was an adjourned meeting, so the Minister will sum up in the final words. But before I give you my word, Minister, I will ask the House once again for peace! I understand that the atmosphere is not completely calm after some decisions. But really, if you're discussing anything other than the Military Police, please in the foyer! I'll wait. Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-006-041.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to burden this Friday afternoon with some long story, but I was asked here last time to explain or comment, then criticized that I didn't, even though I tried, but I couldn't. I didn't get the floor. So let me just say a few words about the proposal. I would like to point out that this is a novel which has no deep side or other intentions whatsoever, except that it wants the Military Police to act as it should, in real time and for the benefit of the Army of the Czech Republic. It's, as has been said here, a government proposal. I am not just saying this as a technical statement, but precisely because there were certain and relatively emotional reservations, so the government proposal was accepted unanimously and the material went through a proper commentary procedure, i.e. that it was entered and assessed by the legislative unions or sections of all ministries. So the work was on it, I'd say, detailed. But not just that. The proposal was, of course, also discussed with other government bodies dealing with this area. In this context, I would like to stress very much that the proposal has the support of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office as well as of the two state prosecutors. There is no reservation of the Ministry of the Interior or the Police of the Czech Republic, which is quite essential, because there have been such opinions that perhaps there is some kind of creation of a second police force, which I would like to call completely out of ignorance or from some other serious cause. The proposal has no problems, neither the General Inspection of Security Corps nor the BIS. There was support from the Minister of Justice here last time. Again, I would like to stress that we are led by a single ambition, and this is to take different offenses or illegal acts within the army where it may disturb both image or reputation, but also the consistency and quality of this important component, so that, on the contrary, the investigation that will be conducted by knowledge of the environment, the knowledge of the specificity of any crime. And also the fact that the Police of the Czech Republic are overloaded with all possible tasks, so that is for the benefit of the matter. And whatever your opinion on this is, polemic or critical, I would like to say that what I have said here entitles this material to be submitted to second reading and discussed there, both on the committee responsible and on, for example, other committees that will be proposed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-006-041.u3	Thank you, Minister. The chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura Club shall report with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-006-041.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'm really surprised we're discussing the material today. We, as opposition, have asked government colleagues to join the issue of this law in a meeting that will take place on 31 January with the Prime Minister to be the second point of negotiations right after Military Intelligence. That's what we're promised, and it's not January 31 today, that's what it's going to be. And today we're discussing it, and the Minister says, "Let's move on." That's not how it works. What are we going to discuss on January 31st? Our specialists who do this aren't here today, they're duly excused because they didn't even count. Perhaps they would overcome their medical indisposition if they knew that it would be an ambition to discuss it today, even to negotiate at first reading. So I suggest that we take our time, this is a matter which deserves greater support than the support of only the government coalition, that we interrupt that point and return to it after the Prime Minister's meeting. I think it will also help the content of this law, and that then the fight in plenary will be less if we are able to define the fundamental reservations and agree whether they will be removed or replaced or improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-006-041.u5	Although I have other applications with priority rights here, because there was a procedural proposal, I have to let him vote without a debate. So we're gonna put the motion to the vote. I'm gonna sing because I asked the debaters to leave the O.R. and discuss in the lobby. So I'm gonna wait a minute, I'm gonna check you out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. In the vote number 262, we will decide to suspend this item. I understand that, until the end of the meeting with the Prime Minister on the matter of intelligence, which is actually convened, this is the case, all the parliamentary clubs were addressed. We will decide in the vote number 262, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 262 of 100 Members present for 34, against 39. The motion was not accepted. Let's keep going. With priority rights, Mr. Minister and then Deputy Chairman of the ANO Club, Mr. colleague Schwarz. Minister, you have the floor. I just point out that - if the Minister does not want to speak, that would be excellent, because I would not have to open the debate again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-006-041.u6	I would like to, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, do not want to stir up passions on Friday. I'd just like for our club and everyone else who's interested in listening to me. You know, they can turn things around a little bit, straighten things out or say. I had information on the Gremium, what was the negotiation, and it is true that negotiations with the Prime Minister regarding Military Intelligence really are ordered, and I understand that. That's why Military Intelligence isn't really waking up today. This issue concerns the Military Police and Criminal Code in a simplified manner. So it's either convenient for someone, or of course he says he doesn't have a specialist here. I understand the Prime Minister. But I would like to explain it to you all once more on the microphone here: This meeting with the Prime Minister concerns Military Intelligence and individual movements or things. But we're talking about the Military Police as one today about the penal code. This has nothing to do with Military Intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-006-041.u7	I have applications for factual remarks, but I will not grant one because the debate is closed. So my colleague Hájek and colleague Chalupa won't get the floor. The only person who can get the floor is the rapporteur and with priority rights, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. dobře, acting chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Michal Kučera. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-006-041.u8	Hello, thank you for your word. I would like to request a break for the meeting of the MP's club by 2:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-20-ps2013-054-08-006-041.u9	And I was so excited. Okay. In that case, all I have to do is take a break for the TOP 09 meeting. Before I do so, I will state my apologies to Mr Fiedler and Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who are apologizing only from 13:30, but until then there will be no meeting, and I will tell you that we will continue on 31 January, after the committee week in progress, by which the law on medicines at second reading is firmly included, sorry, it is returned to the Senate, and the Act on medical professions returned to the Senate, and other proposals that we have firmly included. I wish you a good afternoon and I wish you a quiet weekend, if possible, if you have it available.
