ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on the 4th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. Vice-President Hamáček votes with replacement card number 2. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their participation: Mr Martin Jiránek by 15.30 for working reasons. No one is excused from the members of the government. Spare card number 4 - Mr. Pávek MP. So first, let me introduce you to the proposals on which today's grémium agreed. We propose to include a new item in the agenda, namely the Proposal for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies Committee of Investigation to the OKD, and we propose this procedure. As the first two points of the negotiations, discuss the suspended item No. 22, which is the choice of the chairmen of the standing committees, and the new point that I have just mentioned, the election of the chairman of the committee of inquiry to the OKD. Furthermore, we would be discussing points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, House prints 2, 3, 8, 9, 25 and 26. I'm asking if anyone is interested in a performance, they have a proposal to amend the approved agenda for the 4th meeting. I have here a written application from Mr Leo Luzar, to whom I hereby give the floor. I will ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to settle in your seats and lower your calls so that we hear exactly Mr Luzar's proposal. Thanks again for the quiet in the hall. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, at the last meeting, I asked and asked you to include information from the Government on the negotiation process on the agenda. Dublin protocols, so-called Dublin IV. Unfortunately, we did not succeed in voting with my proposal. The KSČM therefore repeats this proposal and asks that this informative government report be included in each other's meetings. However, given that we have a budget on the agenda today, and according to the amendments, this budget is quite challenging, we have decided to ask for this point to be included at 16. 1. 2018 as the first item of the new meeting, when I will repeat this proposal during the announcement of the programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-000-000.u3	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in making a motion to amend the approved agenda for the 4th meeting. If this is not the case, we will proceed to the vote with the fact that Mr Luzar has already been notified that 16. 1. 2018 will take place another meeting. We will vote on the agenda of the meeting in its entirety when it is launched, and it will be appropriate to include this item, possibly to ask the Organisational Committee to include this item. I think his proposal is unvoted at the moment. So if you and your fellow MP... I don't think he can hear me... Silence means consent. Mr Mašek votes with replacement card number 3 and Mr Pražák with replacement card number 7. I now propose that we vote on the proposals that I have made from Gremia with one vote and then approve the agenda of the meeting, as amended by the amendments approved. We will vote on the proposal of the Gremium. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Vote number 40. Registered 174, 170, no one. The motion was accepted. Excellent. And now we will vote on the agenda of the meeting, as amended by the Grémium. No, we don't, okay. I'm sorry. We're not at the beginning. An overview of the remaining points for discussion has been given to you on the bench. And so, in line with the proposal from the Gremium, I will continue with the point
