ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u1	41. Members' proposal by Zbyněk Stanjura, Andrej Babiš, Martin Plíšek, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Bělobrádek, Roman Sklenák and Pavel Kováčik to issue a law amending Act No. 301/1992 Coll., on the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic and the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 1089/ - third reading I ask that Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and Mr Martin Kolovratník take the position at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 1089/3, which was delivered on 12 July 2017. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 1089/4. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. It's not like that. I am opening the debate and the applicant is the first to report. Please, you have the floor. Otherwise, colleagues and colleagues, again, I ask that if you have something important to discuss, you go to the lobby to discuss. And don't disturb those who perform here at the microphone. Please, Mr. plaintiff.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u2	Thank you for the floor. The bill is one of the few opportunities for helping those who do business, and especially small and small ones who do not have a large legal department behind them and who have to focus on the confusion of legislation on their own. However, I signed up for the debate to read legislative technical amendments pursuant to Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, and now, Mr Vice-President, I would first read them. First: It is proposed to cancel parts and leave only articles. Reason: The bill is divided into parts only...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u3	I'm writing it down that you're making legislative technical adjustments and I'm asking you, colleagues, to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u4	The draft law shall be broken down into parts only if it contains several laws. In the event that only one law is amended, such as in this case, the amendment is not included in the articles. The amendment is divided into articles, not parts. The second point, the second legislative adaptation, the introductory wording of point 2 shall read: Paragraph 21 including footnotes 6 and 7 shall read: Third legislative technical regulation: The advice of paragraph 3 reads... [[- Please continue.]] Well, when the MPs turn down. From the YES movement, to be exact, and I apologize to colleagues from other clubs. Point 3, introductory wording, point 3 is replaced by the following: The fourth part of the legislative technical regulation, points 4 and 5 are deleted. Justification for these points 2 to 4: The basic rule of legislative technique is that the insertion of new paragraphs does not exceed the existing paragraphs, as is the case with part of paragraphs, parts, etc. This is Article 58 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and (b). It is therefore proposed to amend the introductory wording of points 2 and 3 in order to comply with the rules of legislative technology, which is also the reason for repealing points 4 and 5, which will be redundant as a result of the proposed technical adjustment. In principle, it is only legislative technical cleanliness, so that the law is precisely in line with legislative technology, in no way does the content of the bill change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u5	Thank you, too. Another duly logged in is Minister Chvojka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I think that the law is one of the worst laws that we have had here during this term of office, and I will say in a moment why I think so and what reasons I have to think about it. I am sorry that there is no Minister Pelikán, the Minister of Justice, who has, and sometimes we disagree, sometimes we do, and in this case we agree, exactly the same opinion as I do. A colleague of Stanjura, the club chairman, said that some entrepreneurs, small or medium-sized, did not have an apparatus of lawyers who should advise these entrepreneurs on how to learn about the standard legal environment of the Czech Republic. But here's one important thing to say: he doesn't have a normal citizen either. Like what? What ordinary citizen is behind an army of lawyers to tell him what the rule of law looks like, and what are his duties and rights? Just not knowing the law doesn't excuse what the old legal instruction says. Rights belong to the watchful, and that's how it's supposed to be. We had, I believe, that this law was quite a fundamental debate in the government at the end of April, about this law, I proposed a negative position as President of the Legislative Council of the Government, unfortunately it was not adopted and the press received a neutral opinion But if you look at that government position that has six sides of it, you can see that the law is simply for rejection. Perhaps I will just briefly read a few points from the government's position to let you know, at least on the basis of what's wrong with the bill. The Government points out that the proposed legislation constitutes a substantial intervention in the principle of democratic rule of law and in many respects raises doubts about compliance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. [[12.00 hours]] Furthermore, one of the fundamental principles of democratic rule of law is equality of all before the law. The draft law put forward unjustifiedly favours the selected group of addressees of legal standards - as I said - the selected group of addressees of legal standards by providing it with a more comfortable approach to its legal obligations, by means of an overview of the legal obligations set out in the annexes to the legislation of the new information system. This approach is discriminatory. The draft law therefore creates doubts and a principle which is highlighted in the proposed paragraph 20 para. 4, according to which this distinction against business and non-business entities should even have consequences in the area of law enforcement, is, in my view, strongly unconstitutional. We just can't have a group of laws here that have an attachment, where there'll be rights and obligations. If that annex doesn't contain one right or obligation, it won't be enforceable. That's just nonsense. Furthermore, in the context of the proposal submitted, it is necessary to draw attention to Article 52 of the Constitution, which states that the law should be declared in force. In accordance with Parliament's will, the law then takes effect and brings about any legislature's intended consequences, virtually. all the characteristics of the legal standards contained in such a law are applied. From the point of view of the above equality, it should be pointed out that in this respect, any legal standard operates within the limits of its personal competence with respect to all addressees without differences, and therefore different legal rules on effectiveness cannot be laid down, respectively. the effective applicability of standards to different groups of addressees - business or non-business persons - let alone to different groups of entrepreneurs. This approach would be totally unacceptable in the rule of law. The proposal submitted further denies the division of power set out in Article 1 (2) (a) (ii) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Article 2 (1) (a) The provisions of Article 1 (1) of the Constitution and the definition of a body of bodies entrusted with the normalisation of powers. Therefore, if, under the proposed legislation, an annex with an overview of the obligations of entrepreneurs could also be issued in the case of the law by the Government, this would constitute a serious breach of Parliament's sovereignty as a legislature. My friends, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, colleagues, I believe that only this small list, this small part of the argument against this law - because these points are still 12 - will convince you that you will not vote in favour of this law. I understand, I understand the reasons, and I apologize to the Chamber of Commerce for acting like this. And I understand the reasons which lead the Chamber of Commerce to lobby and bring forward this law, but I repeat, from the point of view of the fundamental legal principles of the rule of law, this law is unacceptable. It is based on the inequality of the addressees of legal standards, distinguishing between ordinary citizens, small entrepreneurs, large entrepreneurs. That's just unacceptable. Please don't let this kind of legal pasquil pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u7	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies before I hand over the meeting proceedings. From 12 o'clock, Mr Adam apologizes for personal reasons, and from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mrs Jana Hnyková apologises. I'm registering factual remarks. The first, with a factual point, will be made by Mrs Válková, and Mr Zavadil will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u8	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, my colleague, the Minister here has summed up the essential arguments in the field of constitutional law. I was visited by the management of the Chamber of Commerce, and I had a rather detailed explanation of the matter, because I am the last person who would not know how complicated it is to confess and navigate in legislation and how difficult and complex the situation is for entrepreneurs and that any ease is, of course, very beneficial for them. On the other hand, I see this to a certain extent unacceptable restriction on Parliament's competence, which alone should have the structure of legislation, including the presentation reports, including the annexes, under its jurisdiction. And I think by doing that, we'd be opening a Pandořin's locker imaginarily. Because I can quite well imagine what we as college, high school teachers would like to do especially in legislation, so that we do not have to read and navigate the whole of this inconspicuous bunch of all the different standards. And I have the advantage of being a lawyer. So for these reasons, not because I didn't think that any facilitation was appropriate, but I think we need to look for other solutions or other legal forms with the Economic and Agrarian Chamber, a draft of another law. But the one that is presented here, I must agree with my colleague, Mr. Minister, that he would really have the characteristics of unconstitutionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u9	Good noon. Thank you for keeping the point of fact to Mrs Helena Válková. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Zavadil and then Mr Stanjura and Mr Kolovratník signed in. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, unlike my previous speaker, I do not think that this law is wrong. And that if we were to release this law and approve it, then we would give the Chamber of Commerce something that absolutely does not belong to it! Period.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u11	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura for a proper application, i.e. no limit on time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u12	Thank you for the floor. The other day, when I evaluated the activities of Minister Chvojka and his predecessor, I said they were completely useless, they did nothing. This is where they had a chance to do something. They were scared, it would be a job, so they're against it. I don't know yet that Minister Chvojka or former Minister of Justice will decide the constitutionality of the law. You can say, I think it's unconstitutional. And no, as Minister Chvojka said here: This is unconstitutional. Plus, with such ridiculous arguments. Minister, you lied here. What's the difference between small and large? In the text of the law? You said the bill brings a different approach to small and large entrepreneurs. So please answer me in which paragraph, in which sentence, or take that sentence back. There's no such thing. And now it's like a really absurd structure. Let's try to use logic. And lawyers use logic quite often. It's unconstitutional because an entrepreneur gets information about his duties and the non-businessman doesn't get information about what businessmen's obligations are. What good would that do? I would have expected, for example, Minister, the Prime Minister, that you would have said to yourself: So here is the initiative of six political parties. This is not a political party proposal. The authors are Andrej Babiš from YES, Martin Plíšek from TOP 09, Petr Gazdík, STAN, Pavel Bělobrádek, Roman Sklenák from ČSSD, Pavel Kováčik, KSČM. At the time the government was discussing this, two Vice-Presidents of your government were signed under the bill. I guess your colleagues don't take you seriously in the government that you didn't convince them it was unconstitutional. That you did not convince your colleagues, the then Minister of Finance or the Vice Prime Minister for Science, to withdraw their signatures under an unconstitutional bill. How would you judge as the one who cares about the purity of the behaviour of the vice-premieres of the Czech government, who you believe sign under the unconstitutional law? Why didn't you intervene? Because they don't take you seriously. Take the logic: the government has a neutral position, but you can conclude from the text that it is for rejection. Well, I can still say that when the government gave a neutral opinion, it's close to a positive statement, right? What kind of logic is that? Why are you even using this? You haven't been able to convince your own government, and now you're scaring the MPs here that it's unconstitutional. Then try to answer me, Minister, what your colleagues in the government have told you and why the government's position is not rejected! That's what I'm wondering. Did you convince Roman Sklenák, the chairman of your club, to withdraw his signature under your unconstitutional law? To withdraw his promise to support the law? [[12.10 hours]] At least you can see who's keeping the word. Or we'll see. Maybe I'm wrong, and President Sklenák will surprise me and be in favour. Because not voting for your own proposal is quite funny. I know that everyone can decide what they want, and it's logical to reject other people's proposals. But to say... We've been here before... I see a colleague. I don't want to name him on a microphone. [[With a smile.]] That I'd make a suggestion, and then I'd be against it. Seems hypocritical to me. It also seems hypocritical to me to say the government gives a neutral position, but the bill is for rejection. I would have expected, for example. Minister Chvojka, Minister without a job - he inherited it, without a job, it was not only about Minister Dienstbier - you could, for example. say: Here is x Members including two vice-premieres of my government and they want to put in the annex to the law duty for entrepreneurs. What if we, or I, as a member of the government, had prepared a similar material that would give responsibilities to everyone for each bill? Since it seems to discriminate against someone. But since it's the D.O.D. without a job, they're not gonna make up a job they can do. What the former secretary said. I did not understand at all - that Parliament has the right to create. Who's supposed to approve these laws? I know that this is a rhetorical question that Members might know the answer that the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. So how could it be that Members do not actually approve the law in which they want it to be? No one can take that right away from them. I understand if someone said, "I don't like it, it's pointless why we would help these entrepreneurs, we've been after them for four years anyway, they're all suspects, those who pay small wages, they're villains, businessmen are parasites, etc. I understand all that, even though I disagree. But then create a wannabe complex, not just a wannabe, a complex legal structure and say, "We, lawyers, see a constitutional problem... So vote in favour, make a motion to the Constitutional Court, and if it states that it is unconstitutional, I say for the representatives of the petitioners that we will fully respect it. I could ask the former Minister of Válková why she did not convince her President Andrej Babiš, who signed the bill with me. Did you convince him to withdraw his signature under a bill that, in your opinion, is unconstitutional? Did you at least try to convince him? And what did he say? He hasn't downloaded it yet. I know I'm standing here, but I could challenge all five colleagues who signed with me to be here. And I know how those negotiations went, they know it, they all promised they wouldn't just sign it, but they'd support it. Maybe unlike the others, I read the bill before I signed it. So if anyone comes in and says, "I signed it and I didn't see it, now Chvojka read it for me, I know it's wrong, I'm sorry... All right. It's some kind of confession that someone signs something light with their hands that they don't know what they're signing, and they sign it. Otherwise, it feels like one excuse after another. It's what officials fear most, isn't it, Minister? [[Minister Chvojko.]] No? Proclamation. You read from the phone, I printed it out, but we have the same source - House print number xy. The Government points out that the proposed legislation constitutes a substantial intervention in the principle of democratic rule of law and in many respects raises doubts about compliance with constitutional order... Very strong sentence. [[Member Stanjura is shutting down and looking right towards Minister Chvojka.]] No, I'll wait for Minister Chvojka to listen to me, I'm in no hurry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u13	I'd like to keep quiet and speak to the man to whom the word has been given. Please don't shout at each other. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u14	Relatively strong words - in many ways it raises doubts. Try to name at least five. That's a general declaration. The sentence doesn't go any further, e.g. Article 3 could be contrary to this Article of the Constitution, or the sixth sentence of Article 2 (2) of the Constitution. 2 could be in conflict. In general, I can say about every bill, and everyone has the right to say it, I have doubts as to whether this law is in accordance with constitutional order. It's nothing special. That's a perfectly legitimate sentence. But based on this strong sentence, the government will give a neutral opinion. Does it strike you as normal for a democratic government to say "this bill fundamentally disrupts democratic order, and we don't care"? Because the neutral position actually says "we don't care." Or was it that you think it's all wrong, I don't take it at all, your office thinks it's all wrong, I don't take it either, then you startled the coalition's petitioners, certainly not from the opposition, and said, "Well, I'm not going to do it to Babiš and Bělobrádek"? Well, Minister Chvojka laughs so much, but he didn't push anything. He has a strong statement here about unconstitutionality, and where he has no opposition, where he has peace, where he has a majority of 100 percent of the coalition vote, he is unable to assert his opinion. He thinks it's smiling. And then he comes here and says, "Attention, attention, it's unconstitutional." I'm not a lawyer, but to say that when an entrepreneur finds his duty in the law, it's unconstitutional... Listen to that sentence one more time. When an entrepreneur finds a list of his duties in an annex to the law, it's unconstitutional. So we want to help these entrepreneurs create an environment, or we want to catch them with a rather arrogant one: Dear businessman, dear businessman, the ignorance of the law does not excuse me, I don't care that you do fourteen hours a day and you don't have time to read the laws, I don't care that you don't have the money to buy some professional services, but according to the old legal principle... And I basically agree not to attack her. We're trying to help them. But that's legally suspicious. That's weird, no, telling someone what to do, clearly, in the chart. Let him read 100 paragraphs and find out that there are four responsibilities in Section 8, 27, 37, 47 when he does so. It seems to me, don't be mad at me, Minister, the hostile position on those who do business. Enemy position. So you could make it better. The law has been here for quite a long time. How much did he prepare, for example? Government office, or whatever your group is called there, the Legislative Council of the Government, etc., how many amendments have you prepared for the bill? Zero! They didn't do anything. They don't want to help entrepreneurs. Because helping entrepreneurs is unconstitutional. But perhaps you could invent, that would be exactly in line with your program, a grant title for providing legal services to entrepreneurs who are hard to navigate in the confusion of the laws that we have adopted. For that you could accept, like, 100 officials, create rules, commission, wait for how many entrepreneurs apply for it, then wisely sit down, say, that's nice, we have 1,600 applications for 20,000 crowns, unfortunately, but the grant title has only 2 million, so we somehow sort of sort of sort of sort of sort of line up, alphabetically, politically, regionally, however, and the first 836 entrepreneurs out of those 20,000 to buy legal services that would tell them what their obligations are, get the subsidy, and the other 628 don't. Then 836 grant agreements would be written, which would then control several dozens of officials for many years. And since our control system is quite complicated, so the first check could come from the ministry that provides this subsidy, the second check could come from the financial office, then we can't forget the Supreme Audit Office, which could assess the effectiveness, impact and benefits of a specific grant title, that's the third, so, I don't know, 500 people could make a living with it for a few years. That's a different form of help. It's expensive, bureaucratic, it's selective for someone. If we want to help everyone, small and large. I was just saying that the big guys have it easier because they have, like, those legal departments that the little guys can't afford for a lot of reasons. The proposal doesn't distinguish between small and large. Of course, it can if they have other obligations under the law. You want to do progressive taxation e.g. companies by turnover, i.e. One should be obliged to do so, e.g. 20 per cent of the tax and others would have to pay 25 per cent of the tax and would have been in the annex. That's the only difference. But the information, when and how much, they could get or they would both get the same. [[12.20 hours]] I could react, but I don't have to. I think all Members of the Chamber of Deputies have also received a response to individual complaints, which are really some comical, for example, that duplicates are being created for the activities of the Ministry of the Interior. Probably the Home Office is thinking of some kind of activity to help entrepreneurs. I don't know. Maybe you could've suggested if you thought it was duplicated so only the Home Office would do it. It would seem weird to me, but why not, and that would eliminate the alleged duplication. There was no such thing again. And I could really keep going, but I don't want to hold up. I'd like us to put it to the vote so it's clear who's keeping their political promises and who's willing to sign anything and then say sorry in a few weeks, I'm against it, I don't really feel like it, the content is weird and suspicious. I just want to remind you that, in fact, the bill is there to ensure that the initiation of duties is gradual. There are 13 basic responsibilities that should be processed first, respectively. 13 basic laws that affect actually all entrepreneurs - tax laws, social and health insurance, labour code. Those are the ones everyone meets. And it might prove that the law has some shortcomings, that it needs to change, modify, improve, of course it does. That's why there's a relatively long time interval for the start itself. When we changed the rules here that, for example, the amendment must have a explanatory report, we also changed the technique of legislation. I think that's right. And we've dealt with it somehow. So if we were to approve this and the bill should be annexed to the list of obligations for entrepreneurs, then it would have to be dealt with both by the ministry and virtually. the government as a whole, as well as the individual petitioners of Parliament's bills, which I think is correct. On this case, I mean, we can adapt to change. I really don't understand the effort. To say as usual - very often and maybe everyone is using it to make me unattractive - to say: in principle, I welcome this idea. A proper effort to prepare and enforce such a thing! But my political mentor told me years ago, "Listen to the second sentence that comes after the word, but." There you will learn what the opinion of the person who says: In principle, I welcome the fact that this issue should be addressed, and in principle I welcome the fact that this bill is prepared. The Minister Chvojka said something similar at the end of his speech - that he understands this and that this is basically a good effort, but we are not going to help them! That's the kind of thing I interpreted, because if Minister Chvojka wanted to help them, the law would improve as a minister or an MP, he would convince us of his point of view. He'd say we could, instead of a year, put two years on the first 13 laws, see if we can come up with any logical structure. Let's give it four for the rest of us. All of this could have happened, none of this happened. I am sorry, but I still believe that the Minister, as he has not convinced the government, and that is for the coalition MPs, has not convinced your ministers, so don't let yourself be convinced either. The ministers were firm, relentless and did not hear the Minister Chvojka. Be the same and support us. I think the rapporteur also supports this, and this is a government Member, I am opposition. This is a joint proposal of six political parties represented in this House, including the Czech Social Democratic Parliamentary Club. Be firm and support the proposal! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u15	I thank Mr Stanjur. Before the proper application of Mr Kolovratník gets to the floor, I note the factual remarks. The first is Roman Sklenák, then colleague Kudela, then colleague Kalousek, Válková and Minister Chvojka, who I ask whether he wants priority rights or factual rights. With priority rights, but after factual remarks. Mr. Ambassador, please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u16	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, President Stanjura here today uses strong words. In the previous press, he said that our vote was alibi, and now he says that our vote will be cowardly, that someone does not want to keep their word and political promise. And then it is inaccurate, because the proposal was not signed by the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club, but by its chairman. And the problem isn't that maybe I changed my mind. I still think that the idea that this proposal carries is correct, but I'm not deaf either. Of course, after the proposal began to be discussed, many figures were very strongly defined against it, including members of the government - Minister Pelikán, Minister Chvojka, including senators. Let us also remember that we have a second Chamber of Parliament. I consulted them on the matter, and I am very concerned that the support is in the upper chamber for this proposal. And the institutions also had reservations. I will recall the Office for the Protection of Competition. And I'll tell you something. Because I feel like this is a similar case to the contract register. There are simply laws that should be government for them to go through commentary proceedings to be dealt with by the Legislative Council of the Government. Of course, we and others have a legislative initiative, but frankly, I believe that parliamentary proposals should be more minor, and this is not the case. And I remember, and it's memento for me when we let the MP's bill on the register of contracts be discussed. At some point we all saw that it was wrong, that it was supposed to be a government proposal that there should have been a commentary procedure, but we didn't stop it, and basically the result was that we dealt with the register of contracts for four years, the entire term. And I feel like this could be a similar case. So I haven't changed my mind, but I see what other people are saying!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Kudela's point of order now. Mr Stanjura is the last one with factual remarks, after which Minister Chvojka is preferred, then with a proper application by Mr Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. Mr Stanjura's performance was so long that I had to write some points on my note. I take the situation seriously. It was said here that someone wasn't taking anyone seriously. I don't care who's signed under the proposal. I don't care what should be approved. This proposal is not good. It lacks, for example, consistency with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, because, in addition to the bill and the explanatory memorandum, a list of obligations for entrepreneurs will still be approved. For example, this link to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies is missing. I have tabled amendments at second reading, and I have duly justified these, while I have to say that Stanjura's amendments have a reasoned report, and I will not quote it precisely now, because I do not have it in front of me, in this sense this needs to be approved. I draw attention to the fact that this bill creates duplicates, because around a year ago we approved a amendment to the Act on the Collection of Laws here, when it is imposed on the Ministry of the Interior, to prepare an electronic system for the registration of laws, in which the traceability of previous versions and an electronic trace would be available. If the Chamber of Commerce wants to create a system for entrepreneurs, it has had 20 years or more to do so, or it can apply to a system that will be prepared by the Ministry of the Interior and which also has a deadline, I believe, by 2020.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u19	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact. I can't be less strict with you than with the chairman of the Social Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u20	Thank you, I've exhausted my notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u21	Thank you. Now Mr Kalousek has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u22	Thank you. In the sense of the Rules of Procedure, I am responding to President Stanjura's speech. I agree with his factual arguments. I support the bill tabled, but I want to stand up for Minister Chvojka against saying that the Minister is out of work. Minister Chvojka is President of the Legislative Council. The Legislative Council is a quite important cross-cutting body of the Government and it is always arranged as a standard that either the independent Minister of the Legislative Council or the Legislative Council is the President of the Minister of Justice. Now imagine, President Stanjur, through Mr President, that the President of the Legislative Council would be Pelikán. Not every change has to be for the better. I very much appreciate the fact that Minister Chvojka is President of the Legislative Council of the Government. It's kind of like the European Union. We don't idealize it either, but we know we'd be worse off in the Kremlin. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Stanjura's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u24	I would like to respond to President Roman Sklenák's speech, which appealed to all of us: Do not make these parliamentary proposals difficult. Don't do it. Just the simple ones. That's not good. Mr President Sklenák of the Vice-President's Mediation, can you not remember which Member has tabled a proposal for a service bill as a Member? I remember your name being there. And he gave us a job. Try to start with you, Mr. Chairman. Then appeal to us. I was waiting for it, and it was exactly as I described it. President Sklenák says: I support this idea, I am in favour, I am in favour - and then I came, but I am not deaf. I understand that. So you're against what you signed because you're not deaf. It's like... I know it's kind of a media shortcut, or maybe if logic is absolutely applied, then it comes out of what Minister Chvojka said. We have a neutral position, but it needs to be rejected. It's unconstitutional. Well, that's exactly the same logic when I say that Chairman Sklenák is up for it, but he was up for it, and now he's against it because he's not deaf. It has the same logic and the same weight. I don't want to keep you guys. I have already said that I would like us to vote on this to make it clear what the positions are. So I want to tell you, don't worry about it, you who think that businessmen are an important part of our society. Those of you who do not think so, fear it and blame them for other and other obstacles in the belief that you may get rid of them, because they are independent of the state. They don't want anything, and it's really suspicious in the eyes of many.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u25	You too, Mr President, have made a point of fact, so time is up. [[Messenger. Stanjura: Thank you for the information.]] Well, thank you. Now, Mr Gabal, with a point of fact and a factual remark from President Sklenák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u26	Thank you. Let me just document our electronic backwardness. Today the deadline for all Czech citizens living abroad has to register in order to vote abroad on October 21st. At a time when we have data boxes, electronic communications verified, bank transfers and everything. Four years ago, the coalition's deal was to do something about it. We don't have it. If we were then able to instruct an economic chamber to make an electronic voting system for us, we would probably have electronic elections today. At least I'd support it, because it's the leverage to finally get out of this prehistory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Now, the de facto remark made by President Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. Then the Prime Minister Chvojka's priority right. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u28	I just don't want to run away from the subject, but I just want to remind President Stanjur about what happened back then with the service bill. I really think that even such a law should be government, that it was not happy that it was presented as an MP. But when you think about it, it didn't go very well at the time, because the President of the Republic said he would appoint a government when the Service Act passed first reading. So at that point, there was no government to make such a law. And I wrote it somewhere, around Christmas, and I presented it so that the government could come into existence. So I hope it was a really special situation. I'm glad that the ODS club helped us with the law and we approved it here with others. And I agree that such laws really should be governmental.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u29	Thank you, Mr Roman Sklenák. Now with priority rights, Minister Chvojka. A colleague of Mr. Kolovratník will be ready, then a colleague of Mr. Plíšek will be ready. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I will only respond to President Stanjura. His speech was quite long. I've been talking for two minutes, he's 20, so hopefully it won't be the same, possibly his reaction. I would - and he mentioned it already, President Kalousek. I'd like to ask President Stanjura. Or like this. I'll start another way. I've always been offended by what my predecessor said to Jiří Dienstbier, although I don't have the same view of the world as my predecessor. I've always been insulted by the ODS Club that they called him the Minister without a job. As Minister of Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Chairman of the LRV, I have quite a lot of work, although I admit that it may be a little less than it is for inside or in finance, but the job is really enough. I looked into the overview of when either Mr. Stanjura or ODS was in the government for her term. You had the Chairman of the LRV Karolína Peake there. I don't want to give her a professional evaluation. Then the lecturer or Dr. PhDr Petr Mlsna. Independent Prime Minister, sorry. Independent President of the Legislative Council of the Government. By law, the Prime Minister must be a member of the Government's Legislative Council. So you had a minister without a job. You had two ministers without a job during your reign, if I understand correctly. That's not a very good card. I think there's been some misconception, and if you sit there, if you were a lawyer, because without legal education, you can't do that, you'll find that there's quite a lot of work to do. Next, I'm going to go back to my last term of office. It never happened to you, did it? I remember when I was in opposition that you had a neutral government position, but when you read it, it was exactly the same. It's just that sometimes a colleague simply doesn't convince others, in the negative opinion, that it's negative, but from different political circumstances. For various political reasons. Not even professional, but for political reasons, a neutral position can simply be given. So that's a completely odd argument. But what does it matter to me the most? It's an inspiration, of course. I understand, but yes... I understand we want to help entrepreneurs. You said they didn't have the apparatus, some of them, the big lawyers. But it's the citizen he's hitting, for example. For your Minister of Justice, she has speeded up the code, pardon me, like a pig, over 3,000 paragraphs - a civil code. Where's some kind of attachment to rights and obligations? Is there an attachment? A code that has three thousand and eighty paragraphs? Why didn't anyone think of that? You can say, Mr Stanjuro, through the Vice-President, so let us make annexes to all laws. Let us make annexes to rights and obligations not only for those laws that affect entrepreneurs, but also for those ordinary citizens who do not do business for example. Well, then let's do the laws in the index attachment form, not as a classic legal standard text - § 1, para. One, two, three, four, five. But let's always make it a list of rights and obligations that apply. Maybe there won't be those sentences that ordinary citizens don't like to read. It's the kind of legal obsessives. But let's just make it one, two, three, four, five, six... Just a side dish. We don't have to make any laws here. Let's create attachments. That's what bothers me. I think it's legislatively wrong. I repeat, my opinion - that is not some statement of an authoritarian authority. Of course, I don't have the authority. This must be decided by the Constitutional Court if this standard - and I hope it will not be approved - gets there. But the law is just wrong. We can't have the laws of one species here that must have some attachment. And if in that attachment, God forbid, someone forgets to give or deliver one duty, even in the law itself, in the body of the law itself, there is that duty, and when it is not in the annex, that obligation cannot be enforced. That's total nonsense! I didn't see anything more stupid. It just can't be like this! Thank you and I will no longer express myself! Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u31	Thank you. Now, before I give the floor to Mr Kolovratník, I shall read the apologies received by the President of the House. Mr Jan Farský apologizes to his colleague until the end of the day, from 12 o'clock Mr Martin Sedlář, then Minister Stropnický apologizes until the end of the day and also Mr Josef Nekl apologizes. Now, Mr Kolovratník, Mr Plíšek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u32	Thank you for the floor. I have patiently waited, colleagues, for the rapporteur of this law, and I am also his supporter, to support the adoption of this law. I'm glad I waited patiently as properly logged in. At least I could hear your arguments and now react to them somehow. I will not be as confrontational as Mr Stanjura, but in some arguments I will agree with him and try to divorce them a little. Before I put myself into the argument -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u33	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. I would like to abide by the Rules of Procedure and ask the Presidents of Government Members' Clubs to ensure the participation of at least one minister. You can continue until someone demands it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u34	I was gonna ask if I should wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u35	No, you can continue unless someone calls it a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u36	Okay, thank you. I'll keep going. Before I go into these arguments, it won't do me any good and I can't refuse to respond to the speech by President Sklenák, who is unfortunately not present. But the argument - I signed it, I'm the author or co-author of this law, but now I'm listening and I'm not deaf and I'm not actually standing for it anymore - and then I'm added: but I still think it's right. Well, I'm sorry, try to think about it, coworkers and colleagues: I signed it, but I'm not deaf. I wanted to ask my colleague if he had read or knew what he was signing, if he had argued about it. I follow this fluently - it is called the donkey bridge - on my first argument and question, colleagues, why do we have a legislative process, what we are doing here, how we work here. This law, under which they are signed, has already been said, representatives of Stanjura, Babiš, Plíšek, Gazdík, Bělobrádek, Sklenák and Kováčik, this law came here in April of this year. At present I am chairman of the Economic Committee, some colleagues, members, here they are, so hopefully they will confirm my words, we had it properly on the Guarantee Economic Committee twice, we discussed it twice. None of the opponents, including the hesitant President of Sklenák, came to the Economic Committee, said anything about it. Even colleagues from social democracy who are members of the committee did not speak and speak against him and agree with him. In fact, I can shorten my performance. The Guarantee Economic Committee recommends a positive opinion on the adoption of this proposal. The only one who spoke in this argument, and I say this fairly and openly, was a fellow Member, Mr Petr Kudela, who came forward with a negative argument, opposed the law, duly justified his arguments, fell counterarguments, and finally in the final vote before the third reading - it was in the summer - the guarantee economic committee, I repeat, voted again and recommends the adoption of this law. I must say that I am shocked and I am very surprised that now, at the moment, at the third reading, when we are - and you know it - to comment on legislative technical adaptations, a debate like this is about to start. But I feel and respect the mood in the House, I suspect that maybe some of you will decide a little emotional or based on the arguments you hear here, so for you laymen who haven't been there, who haven't been on the Economic Committee, what we're talking about. The proposal, I beg you - and unfortunately Minister Chvojka does not listen to me either, it is a message to him, I do not know how much he read the proposal before today, as he devoted himself to it - he does not give any new dramatic law to the Economic and Agricultural Chamber, he does not elevate these two associations or these entities to the level of the legislative or legislative process. They become only a kind of database administrator, IT administrator, program administrator. You know, when I became the rapporteur, I took the job, I ordered the Chamber of Commerce, I went to check it out. I've seen the demo, I've been sitting at the computer, I've been working with the program, and I've seen how it should work, what it should look like. And please, this is probably the key thing you should hear. It is nothing more or less than an ordinary table, an ordinary database to be entered - the table is thus administered by the Chamber of Commerce, the indication would be made in the event of adoption by individual Members or by the government, those who give new bills - so it is simply indicated in the database in a uniform standardized form of the changes that the paragraph cancels, which is changing. Period. And that's how it works. It's that simple, co-workers and co-workers, that's the idea. And one more bonus that the system offers. Users will also have it linked to their calendars, so that they will discover in their Google calendars or in their apps when another duty comes whether tax, reporting, but also reporting towards statistics, to other control authorities. And now your hand on the heart. I'm a government MP, so hopefully I'll be forgiven for being a little critical, and I'll actually be right about my opponents. We really don't simplify that life for entrepreneurs. During this parliamentary term, we have imposed a lot of responsibilities on them and a lot of regulations. This is a way we can fix this a little bit, and how we can help them. So the first argument - it's really a simple table. I'm still pointing out the answer to Minister Chvojka. The Chamber of Commerce doesn't think of what she's supposed to look like. It is a technical standard, or the structure is such that it will be a technical supplement, a technical decree, and the government as the highest authority of the Czech Republic will determine by its decree and tell what the table should look like. So it's a really simple technical thing. Another reaction, once again to the absent colleague of Minister Chvojka. He said - and I heard it from more colleagues, I suspect from social democracy, but unfortunately also from his colleagues - we favour one group of citizens, citizens, against another. Entrepreneurs will have it and ordinary people will not. Pretty please, and now I am once again critical as a coalition MP to my government, to my colleagues. How can you say that? I mean, if you guys figured out if you had any idea that we were favouring someone and that someone else wouldn't have that kind of advantage, why didn't you put yourself up to the advantage of the other guy, the disadvantaged guy from your point of view? Forgive me for the free approach, but we could say slowly that the Macro chain of trade allows only tradesmen with I.C.O. and with a card and not ordinary people, so we will ban Macro or order Makra to serve ordinary citizens with a new law or decree. I'm sorry, but that's really an argument I can't agree with. In the third argument, I refer, through Mr President, to Mr Zavadil, who said very briefly that this is wrong. You know, my colleague, it seems to me that you have the ideal enemy, the Chamber of Commerce, that the entrepreneurs, whether small or large, are the enemies, the bad ones. But please look at it with a different optics. The employers, the businessmen, the entrepreneurs, they employ people, they give jobs to people and citizens. It's a simple parallel. When we make life easier for them, when we prepare an instrument that will mean less energy for them, less worries, less cost for accountants, lawyers, etc., we make life easier for entrepreneurs and they can develop their businesses more, they can invest in development, education and in their people. So I was very surprised by Mr Zavadil's argument, too, because I believe that this instrument can ultimately help to improve the work done by ordinary employees and ordinary workers for whom he is fighting. I can't argue with that. I think that's right. The last sentence, the last two sentences from me. I repeat what I said at the beginning. I appeal, colleagues and colleagues, to your common sense. I think the proposal is well prepared, the government has given a neutral position - neutral, which means, I suspect, from the debate, that someone was in favour, someone against. Eventually, the position is neutral, signed by all the chairmen of the club or representatives of the parties. [[12.50 hours]] Like I said, I've done the job as a reporter, I've seen it. It's an ordinary table, a database with which the legislative process will work. Maybe one more refill. It won't be a day-to-day revolution. The design is designed so that the laws will gradually be implemented into the database and gradually supplemented within a few years. I'm guessing it's by 2022 or 2023, so it's a long time, actually, over another term of office, when it's going to come true. In theory, if the future government or the House discovers technical problems, I don't think it's a problem to find a political consensus, perhaps, to modify and tune up the system. It is simply a transition to improving the legislative process. Simple, simple, but very important and serving databases, an instrument for entrepreneurs and to lighten their lives. Please take your head in the game and try to support this sensible proposal. For the last time, I repeat, the guarantee economic committee, where all this has been discussed several times with colleagues from social democracy and who were not against it, so the guarantee committee recommends the adoption of this law after a careful and expert debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u37	Thank you, Mr Kolovratník. Now, factual remarks. I'm going to ask my colleague, my Plíšek, to be patient. Mr. Zavadil with a point of fact, then a second point in fact by Mr. Kudela. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u38	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to go against the word "enemy" by your means. I hate that word! I didn't deal with anybody's idea enemy. In all the time I've been acting in the House, in the union, I've always had employers as partners. That's the first point. So I'm gonna make this up. Or maybe we can deal with it somewhere else. I don't know those words! I even blame my parents or yours. I don't know those words. Second point. Oddly enough, I wasn't dealing with anyone other than employers. With both employers' unions. Whether it was the unions of industry, the unions of confederation. I was mostly dealing with them. And they were precisely in order not to approve of this law. So I don't know what's wrong. If I was convinced by the arguments that it was wrong for such a law to be passed, I took the arguments. I even think that you are putting a great deal of uncertainty into the legal system, because if one law sets obligations, now comes another, which will in some way complement them and not complete them completely, we will come to the situation, and I am convinced that this will be a mess. Nice chaos. And think about what you want. And all the way to the end. Unlike you, I am calling on all my colleagues to take their senses into the hand and to do so - because Winston Churchill once said so, and I am not apologizing to Roman Sklenák, but he said: only an idiot does not change his mind! I'm begging you, if you had any other opinion about it, you can change it. And I'm using this expression that's not from my head. Thank you. And I'm sorry for a little emotional, but I'm familiar with it when someone comes to me like that, so I'll call you immediately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u39	Thank you. You were lucky to be logged in to a factual remark. Petr Kudela's point of order now. And I'm going to ask the Minister if he wants a factual remark or a preferential right. Okay. A colleague of Mr. Kolovratník, because he is still registered after his colleague Kudel on a factual note. Mr Kudela, a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u40	Thank you. Have a good afternoon again. In the Economic Committee, this material was only discussed once between the first and second readings to my great surprise. Perhaps if, as usual, he had been discussed in two meetings, this material could have been better finished by the promoter and he did not have to load such complex legislative technical corrections now. It only confirms my opinion that this material is not well processed. The bill isn't well processed. Two. Many of you certainly know systems like ASPI, laws for people and so on. On the basis of our resolution of this House, the Ministry of the Interior is preparing what Mr Kolovratník was talking about a moment ago. Of course, there won't be a list of responsibilities for businessmen. I believe that can be fitted to the system that the Ministry of the Interior is preparing, by the way, at roughly the same completion dates as is presented here. And another one of my comments. If you read the explanatory memorandum carefully, it says that this bill is budgetaryly neutral, but if you continue to read the explanatory memorandum, you will see how much it will cost hundreds of millions of crowns. I wish entrepreneurs everything, but there are other instruments and instruments for it. It's not the support - not the support of business, it's the incomparability. In the whole material one thing does not fit the other, or the reason report contradicts it etc. I have put forward a motion to dismiss, and I continue to sign and insist on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Kolovratník's factual comment, then Mr Chvojka's minister. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u42	Colleagues and colleagues, I respect the principles of gentlemen's debate. I think that's what we should be trying to do here in the House. That is why I apologise to Mr Zavadil. I take his emotional point and I apologize for the expression. That's what I was gonna say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u43	Thank you. Now Minister Chvojka on a point of fact. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u44	Maybe the last time I'll respond to my colleague Kolovratník, as he said: well, if you don't like it, it's just for businessmen, you have to think about doing it for everyone. So let me ask: Does this really mean that, for example, the Civil Code, where, of course, the rights and obligations for ordinary citizens, is a basic private law code, that we will do this by making a fat attachment to the three thousand-thousand-merced code, to be sure, where there will be a table where the rights and obligations will be solved? And that's how we're gonna do it to all the laws that go down? Is this common citizen anything less than a businessman, or how does Mr. Kolovratník see it? I don't think so. So either bring it all in -- but I think it's basically nonsense that we just have some legal text where there are rights and obligations, the ignorance of the law doesn't excuse, the rights belong to the vigilant, that's what we learn at law school -- or let's just make laws as annexes, and that's enough. I appeal to all lawyers in all the MPs who always show common sense on the Constitutional Legal Committee or elsewhere, in the Communists, to Mr. Vice-President Filip, to the ODS on Marek Benda, after all, Professor Válková also said that the law is not good. Unfortunately, Minister Pelikán is not here, he would have said the same thing. My colleague Plíšek supports it. I don't understand why. It's just the law is legal. It upsets the various recipients of legal standards here, depending on whether or not someone is a businessman. It's unacceptable, it's innovative, it's pointless. I'm totally against it. Thank you. And I'm not performing anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u45	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more factual comment by Mr Kolovratník and then a duly registered colleague Plíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u46	I'm sorry, but you can't not respond to that. On Wednesday, Minister Pelikán was an antichrist with his appearance, and today he is the best expert. It's just a short reaction. But Minister Chvojka now asked if the citizen is less than an entrepreneur. Of course it isn't. That is why I am calling if colleagues in the government feel that citizens will now be deprived of the instrument, please, so you could come up with an idea or a proposal to make a similar instrument available to citizens. I repeat, it's a database, a simple table, nothing else, nothing terrible. And I forgot to say one thing. This was also said negative in the argument. It is not only for a defined group of persons, business persons, it is for members and non-members of the Chamber of Commerce. Really, any, every businessman or firm, and no matter what they're members or where they're logged in, they'll have access to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Milan Šarapatka and Mr President of the KDU-ČSL Club Jiří Mihola apologize until the end of the day. Now, Mr Plíšek, a colleague of Mr Marek Benda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u48	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, since I am one of the proponents of this bill, I must express myself. And I am shocked that some Members who have signed this proposal are suddenly changing their minds. We have worked with the Chamber of Commerce on this proposal for quite a long time. A material purpose was first published, then the sections were formed. That time is really very long, and I would have expected that we would have that particular debate at first, especially second reading. And that, at the third reading, someone will be here - and this is already the response to Minister Chvojka through Mr President - in the third reading that someone will be there to make a reflection on the unconstitutional nature of the proposal, so I find that very unfortunate. [[13.00 hours]] Minister, you do not decide constitutionality or unconstitutionality in this country, but the Constitutional Court decides. And to your argument that there are supposedly two categories of citizens. I must say no to that very much. On the contrary, the proposal affects all entrepreneurs without exception. There are no differences between businessmen. But if this government is making a difference between entrepreneurs themselves, then you, Minister through Mr President, are a member of a government that, for example, has enforced an electronic record of sales. And that law actually provides for some exceptions, some entrepreneurs are not covered by this law, some entrepreneurs were covered shortly, some later, and some after some time. So that's where I see the inequality. You are a member of a government that actually increases an enormously bureaucratic administrative burden for entrepreneurs, especially for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. You defended the law on electronic records of sales, which is still in the Constitutional Court and where I see the inequality and it is quite obvious. It's interesting that you didn't object to this, and you supported this law. And in this case, when the law actually says that for all entrepreneurs at a certain start-up time, when the state is harassing them with new regulations, I dare often say faggots, it will, on the contrary, give them a certain service in that legislation, in its annex, to tell them what obligations they have towards that state. I am the principle that when standing on anyone, but also converting an obligation to an entrepreneur or giving him some kind of burden, he should inform him of the burden. By the way, Minister, when we prepared this law, there were also some officials of some ministries who were debating it. And the debate showed that the officials of some ministries, who have jurisdiction in terms of potential business obligations, do not know what their duties are. The authors of the legislation themselves. And here I may have come to the core of the poodle, as they say. I think that, indeed, for some officials, this law will bring a little more work. Yes, they, on the basis of the political task in particular of this government, are preparing new responsibilities and new burdens for entrepreneurs, will also have to make clear to those entrepreneurs what obligations they have. Don't be angry with me, but the fact that there is a certain duty for some officials is quite right. They have to do a service not for themselves, not for the government, political representation, but for the citizens of this country. And entrepreneurs are also citizens of this country. So, colleagues and colleagues, if we want to do at least some service for entrepreneurs, and especially for those small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, who are burdened by the current government with various, often senseless responsibilities, let us support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u49	I thank Mr Plíšek for his speech. Mr Marek Benda is the last member of the debate. At least for now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u50	Mr Vice-President, gentlemen, ministers, gentlemen of the petitioners and ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief, because if one tries to sign up, so many people will come forward with factual remarks that everything is already exhausted and I think that we are almost, probably last Friday of this parliamentary term, all of us are fed up. I just made a few small remarks about what was said here. Firstly, entrepreneurs, yes, are also citizens, but laws treat them more strictly than citizens in many ways. In sanctions, duties, and many other things, he also accomplishes a number of things that he does in addition. And it's imposed on them by the state. And they're full of them, above what all citizens do. So let's not pretend that there's something completely abnormal that the state would provide them with that little service to tell them what to do in their business, in which law. A rather extensive colleague Plíšek has already spoken about this. The problem is that even the authors of standards often don't know what to do. If we look at the famous anti-smoking law, for which most of this House voted for, then everyone will say, or almost everyone, so that I don't touch anyone, almost everyone will say yes, we've gone too far, we've ruined it, next time we'll fix it. Do you know how many misdemeanors there were? About 80. Do you know how many facts we have in the entire legal order? 5 300 according to the estimate of the Ministry of the Interior - and it is not entirely certain! He's not quite sure. 2,700 administrative offences. And instead of bringing it to the Home Office - and I said it here about a year and a half ago when there was a review of the offenses - instead of bringing some unity, it brought this thick file in which everything was just renamed. And we're pretending we're doing something for the citizens? I just feel that yes, it will be more difficult for entrepreneurs if something like this is accepted, from the next time to give new responsibilities. I don't mind at all. From now on, I think it should be our debt to just cut, walk, think about what we've given extra, and commit ourselves over the next period that we're not going to impose any obligation on anyone. And if we don't impose any obligation on anybody, the law is completely harmless. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u51	I thank Mr Marek Benda. I don't have another written application. If no one's reporting, I'm done with the debate. After the final debate, we will proceed to the vote on the amendments. But before that, I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. We can therefore ask the rapporteur to inform us first of the procedure and then to guide us through the procedure, to present individual amendments and to comment on them. [[unintelligible]] Mr Stanjura shall be heard by the appellant. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u52	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the debate. There have been arguments on both sides, and it will now be up to the decision of those persistent who have stuck with us until these Friday hours. The Guarantee Economic Committee, as I said, adopted the draft procedure in its resolution No. 1089/4 plus, today in the debate, the representative of Mr Stanjura's petitioners proposed legislative technical amendments. So, in line with these two documents, I suggest we do the procedure in this order. First, the proposal to reject the law, then the proposals for legislative technical amendments, then the proposals referred to under letters A1 to A7 together with one vote. These were Mr Kudela's amendments. Furthermore, proposals B1 to B4 together with one vote. Those were Mr Stanjura's proposals. Finally, the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u53	Yes, that's the procedure proposal. Anyone have a reminder? I don't see anyone. We'll approve the procedure in the 103 vote that I started. I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 103, 110 for 78. The motion was accepted. We'll proceed according to procedure. We can begin, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u54	So in the first vote there is a motion to reject the bill, the guarantee committee does not recommend this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u55	The appellant also does not recommend it. [[Disagree.]] But I'm gonna check you all out first, and I'm gonna ask you for a new registration for a request from the diaper. Please log in with your identification cards to find out the exact number of Members present. We will decide on the motion for rejection in the vote number 104, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 104, of the 81 Members present for 21, against 33. The motion was not accepted. We can therefore proceed with the second proposal for a vote, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u56	Now, please vote on the proposals for legislative technical amendments, as Mr Stanjura has said today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u57	Yes. We will decide in the vote number 105. No. [[From the diaper: Opinions.]] Voting number 105 is misguided. I will ask for opinions on legislative technical adaptations. Mr. Rapporteur? [[Agreed, positive. - Agreed.]] We will decide in the vote number 106, which I am initiating, and I ask who is in favour of legislative technical amendments. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 106, 83 for 72, against no one. It's been approved. Third proposal, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u58	The third proposal is amendments under letters A1 to A17. The position of the guarantee committee is negative, i.e. not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u59	We will decide in the vote number 107, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 107, 83 for 3 against 38. The motion was not accepted. Fourth draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u60	The other proposals are amendments under points B1 to B4. These were discussed positively this time by the guarantee committee, i.e. a favourable opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u61	Okay. We will decide in the vote number 108, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 108, 83 for 55, against no one. These amendments have been approved. This has exhausted all the amendments. The rapporteur, is that correct?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u62	Affirmative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-009-041.u63	No one reports that his proposals have not been voted on. We can therefore vote on the proposal as a whole. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Zbyněk Stanjura, Andrej Babiš, Martin Plíšek, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Bělobrádek, Roman Sklenák and Pavel Kováčik to issue a law amending Act No. 301/1992 Coll., on the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic and the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic, as amended, according to the House press 1089, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." We're going to vote 109, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 109, of the 81 Members present for 47, versus 13. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[Applause in the right side of the hall.]] Thank you, draftsman's representatives, thank you, rapporteur, and I finish point 41. According to the approved agenda, we have exhausted all third readings that are ready for today's meeting day. Pursuant to the Agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs of Parliament pursuant to § 54 (1) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v))) (v) (v))) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) That's a preliminary proposal. I expect to meet you on Tuesday, September 12th, at 14:00, when we will continue the meeting. Have a nice weekend and goodbye.
