ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u1	198. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Protocol amending the European Convention on Landscape, adopted in Strasbourg on 15 June 2016 /German press 967/ - first reading The proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u3	Before you continue to speak, I apologize for interrupting you - but colleagues, if you have something important to discuss, go to the lobby. Once again, I'm asking you to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u4	Thank you for your attempt to make room for the Landscape Convention. I understand that it's not, let's say, a juicy subject like the previous point, but that's why I'm going to try to be as brief as possible. The Protocol amending the European Convention on Landscape was adopted by the Committee of Representatives of the Ministers of the Council of Europe to open the European Convention on Landscape to non-European States. The content is therefore an amendment to the existing Convention, although implemented in the form of a separate protocol. What's the goal of the treaty? Support protection, care and planning in the landscape and also organise international cooperation in this area. The Convention is based on the common interest of European countries in the pursuit of the sustainability of landscape development. The Protocol is thus the result of the long-term intention of the Council of Europe's Management Committee to open the European Convention on Landscape also to non-European countries and thus to provide it with a global treaty on landscape issues. The content of the Protocol itself is merely an amendment to the Articles of the Convention containing a reference solely to the current European dimension of the Convention, as well as an amendment to the Council of Europe Convention on Landscape itself. [[12.10 hours]] Since the Protocol does not contain any other provisions amending the Convention itself, its ratification will have no impact on the Czech Republic, nor will it request any amendment to national legislation in the field of landscape protection. The ratification of the Protocol will also have no impact on the state budget. I would just like to remind you that the Czech Republic does not make any regular contributions to the European Convention on Landscape. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u5	Thank you, too, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Václav Zemek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll follow up on the Minister. The proposed amendment to the European Commission Convention on Landscape Protection concerns, as has already been said, a few minor technical changes. As the Minister has already said, the aim of the change is, in fact, to open a treaty on the protection of the landscape and on non-European states, and therefore, there were several partial changes to be made there. Above all, there was a change of name, when the word European Commission is actually released there, but there is a European Convention and then the word "European" is deleted from the other article of the Convention and it can be "international." I believe that this is not contrary to the objectives of the Czech Republic. I recommend that this material be forwarded to the second reading and I propose that, unless otherwise proposed, order the Foreign Committee to discuss it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u7	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application. I will therefore ask Mr Zahradník to speak in the general debate that I have opened. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u8	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have applied to this point, which, as the Minister has said, is a point of technicality, a point which should somehow reflect the ambition of the European Union to spread its principles, ideals and wisdom to non-European countries. The proposal is that it somehow enriches some of the list of passersmen that sound so nice in Czech, about other passersmen in the preamble to the treaty, and which actually renames some things, so instead of the European Convention on Landscape, it is the Council of Europe Convention on Landscape. All right. There is also a new name for the price, from this time on it will be called the Price of the Landscape of the Council of Europe. The Council of Europe has no landscape, but it doesn't matter. Maybe I could get your attention a little bit on the nature of this thing. The essence of the matter is quite nicely materialized in the presentation report, where one paragraph describes what the European Convention on the Landscape is really about. I quote from the reference report: the European Convention on Landscape, hereinafter referred to as the Convention, is the result of the common interest of European countries in the pursuit of the sustainability of landscape development based on balanced harmonious relations between social needs, economic activity, protection and environmental creation. The aim of the Convention is the whole landscape, both natural, outdoor, urban and industrial, i.e. The convention deals with both remarkable landscapes and common or disturbed. The European Convention on Landscape is the first and only international treaty dealing with the importance of the landscape for the quality of life of the population. Ladies and gentlemen, here I must say that this is one of the things, one of the provisions that we are discussing here and which we are going to approve as if of course, simply because it is coming from the European Union, and somehow we are not asking ourselves the question at all, and I dare to ask whether we are actually following such conventions, whether we are actually following them in our actions. And I have to say, it's just not like that. When we passed the amendment to Act No. 114 on the conservation of nature and landscape, i.e. the famous Sumava Act, which is the victory of environmental activists who have 100% fulfilled their desires by it, will have at least an over-half majority of Sumava for their experiments as an effort-free territory, and thus the total loss of the population of Šumava, who cease to find a place in Sumava to live and make a living when we approved the law, so in my opinion we have ignored compliance with balanced harmonious relations between social needs, economic activities, protection and environmental creation. We simply have social needs, the right to economic activity, sacrificed the fact that environmental activists will be able to implement what they think is environmental protection. What happened in Sumava after 2007, i.e. that we have 20 thousand there today. acres of dry forest, which is not very conclusively restored, somewhere yes, somewhere no, means that there has been a major breach of the landscape in Šumava, a major violation of its landscape nature. And I think it's wrong. I know that what I just said here is probably not a reason for us to reject this point or not to approve it. I, too, rapporteur, will not propose it to be rejected, because I would cause problems for our Republic to have a different name for this agreement than for it to be named in all other active countries. We'll have a similar situation in a week. We also have such a similar thing, which, in essence, comes to be approved - the Paris Agreement. We are also one of the last states. You're probably embarrassed that we're the last. I'm sure the Minister will. He signed it without Parliament's approval. He took a heavy burden on himself and on his conscience. Now let's see what happens next week. I think we're definitely gonna approve this at the end of the second reading. But just to realize, sometimes it happens that the seemingly simple technical thing has such a deep human dimension in my opinion, the human impact on the people of Sumava. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Urban, now duly signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, after years of experience, when I read or hear the word convention, I'm still a little stunted, and maybe I'm a little scared, and I'll say why. Here we once signed up and ratified another treaty, the so-called Aarhus Convention, which is now being followed by the Paris Agreement. The Aarhus Convention, among other things, has caused us not to build transport structures here today, that we have major complications with industrial zones, that we are not actually able to invest as much within the budget as we would like, because the Aarhus Convention has allowed citizens, from any corner of the Czech Republic, and various entities to express themselves, repeatedly, on various procedural matters related to investments, i.e. territorial decisions, building permits, etc. At the time, it looked like it was now in the Chamber of Deputies because it was said "this is just a convention, we are actually somewhere at the end of the signatures within the European Union, it's really no big deal, so let's sign it and let's move on, we have more important points to discuss." [[12.20 hours]] On the contrary, I think that we must very carefully, cautiously, but with full responsibility for the environment, on the other hand, and other economic areas of life perceive these things. I think that when you remember what was happening in the Czech Republic after the Aarhus Convention, not only now, but among other things, these were subjects such as the Environmental Legal Service, which looked like it had already been mentioned here today, this entity pretended that it is mainly and fundamentally about the environment. I think he had other goals and other plans. I'm not afraid to say that it's kind of like it looks like it's being fired. You guys are just gonna walk in on us, you guys who want to build something, and you're gonna build it. If you don't go to our hands, the building will never be built. We have many such examples in the Czech Republic. By the way, Environmental Legal Service has transformed into another subject, which many of you, I think almost all of you, know, and it is called Reconstruction of the State. That's just to fill in the information. So I am very afraid to hear the words, as the minister says today, or the rapporteur says: it's not really a big deal, we're just the last one on the road, so let's just ratify it, the minister has actually signed it, just make it formal here. And so we don't find out in ten years that we're actually back in some kind of straitjacket that we didn't want to be in. Thank you, and with a reminder of the Aarhus Agreement, I call on you to be careful.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u11	Thank you. Before I give my word, I'll read two apologies. Today, between 17 and 18 o'clock, Mrs Chalánková apologises because of the illness and from 12.30 to 13 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Karel Fiedler. I have here one factual remark from the rapporteur, and after that with priority rights, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u12	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, so that there is no misconception of what this change is about, I will just add that the Czech Republic is already a signatory of the convention, the original convention. She signed it or it was signed in 2002. This amendment concerns only the name and only the fact that the text deletes the word European and is replaced by the word international. That is why this Convention opens up to other non-European countries. Nothing more, nothing less. The Czech Republic is already a signatory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-005-198.u13	Thank you for your clarification. Now, then, the Minister? No, the Minister is withdrawing his application. I wonder, then, is anyone else reporting for the general debate? I see no one, and in that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the rapporteur or the Minister wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed, by his decision, to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion. It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I shall call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby and read the motion for a resolution. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 69. 151 Members of Parliament are registered. Proposition 108, no one. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and the proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. Next opening point
