ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-010-071.u1	71. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification Protocol amending the Treaty between the Czech Republic and Japan on social security signed in Prague on 1 February 2017 /German press 1068/ - first reading I ask that the proposal be made by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-010-071.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members, the purpose of this Protocol is in particular to remove contradictions in the interpretation of the Czech-Japanese Treaty on Social Security in the field of posting workers. This means that the posting of workers from the point of view of social security means that during the temporary work of a person abroad, the person remains insured in his home state. But soon after the entry into force of the Czech-Japanese Treaty in 2009, there was a somewhat different understanding on the Czech and Japanese sides, where the Czech party is based on a narrower interpretation, which is also used in the law of the European Union. According to him, the worker must maintain an immediate relationship with his sending employer during the secondment. But Japanese workers broadcast by Japanese companies to the Czech Republic often conclude a contract with the Czech company, where they operate, so from the Czech perspective this leads to a break in the direct relationship with the Japanese employer, and therefore the Czech party sees it as a breach of the terms of the posting, but the Japanese party looks at it differently, and the interpretation is that the conclusion of the employment relationship with the recipient undertaking does not prevent the sending of the worker. And because even during expert negotiations it was not possible to unify conflicting positions, the Contracting Parties have agreed directly to clarify this question in Article 7 of the Treaty which governs the posting. So, according to the new regulation, the negotiation of a contract with the recipient undertaking will not prevent the posting, but provided that the posted worker remains under the control of the sending employer. So in fact, both variants of the interpretation will be satisfied. Otherwise, it should be pointed out that this regulation is not exclusively exclusive with Japan and that the broader regulation is, for example, contained in social security agreements with the United States of America or Australia. And the Japanese side, when the treaty had already changed, used the amendment to update articles relating to the Japanese pension system, which had undergone a major reform of the additional pillars in 2015, and to which the Treaty also applies. The proposed adjustments aim to contribute to increasing legal certainty in the application of this Treaty and to improving the investment environment for Japanese enterprises, which are among the most important foreign investors in the Czech Republic in the long term. So that is why I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to release the motion for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-010-071.u3	Thank you. Now, I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mrs Jana Fischerová, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-010-071.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wish you all a pleasant noon. As rapporteur for this House press, this actually international treaty between the Czech Republic and Japan, I will add very briefly to the Minister, because what I wanted to say was actually essential. Plus, I had a chance to talk to some of the employees, or I'm gonna say management companies that are actually in the hands of Japanese owners, so I was wondering what they were looking at. And I found that there is also there after the time of the negotiations, which actually lasted up to eight years, when these relationships were clarified and the insurance for employees from Japan in our country, so there was a consensus. As rapporteur, I'll say I'm happy for you, too. It is enough to say this, and it is just as recent that the Prime Minister is in Japan, and I want to say that it is also a good thing that we are in close contact with Japan, because it is a country that is at the forefront of research and science, and if there is an even greater link between the Czech Republic and Japan, and these conditions will also be supported by good social security for Japanese workers in our country, so that I acknowledge it. Finally, I recommend, as rapporteur, to refer this press to the Foreign Committee and to the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-010-071.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur, I am opening a general debate in which I do not register any application. Not even the rapporteur is applying for a reduction in the deadline? As much as you'd like. I therefore conclude the general debate and ask for final words. Not interested. We will address the motion for a committee's order for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 78 vote. 109 Members and Members are registered, for 94, against none. The motion was accepted. Since I do not see any other proposals, I conclude the first reading of this draft protocol. The next item is the item
