ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u1	29. Proposal to set up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies on OKD / House document 46/ I'm opening the point with this. A group of 94 Members and Members submitted a proposal to set up this committee of inquiry, at the same time prepared a motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies, which is part of House Document No 46. I ask that the representative of this group, Mr Jakub Michálek, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members of Parliament, dear to the public, allow me to make a proposal to set up a committee of inquiry for the OKD, which was submitted to you as House Document No 46 and sent out on 6. 12. 2017. We had this matter on our electoral agenda. It's a thing that I think has support in more political clubs. For the sake of correctness, I have asked for the support of all the presidents of the political clubs in this Chamber of Deputies. In this debate, I will really limit myself to a brief recapitulation of the fundamental facts relating to the case of OKD, as we have known here since 1997. It is a number of different steps, so it would be good to clarify what we are talking about, what is the scope of the commission, so that there are no conjectures. I think that we really should focus here on making this committee work. I don't want so-called. to interfere with some detailed matters in order to argue here, because citizens expect us to really ensure that we set up a committee of inquiry and not that we will continue to discuss whether we will set up a committee here. [[Some Members have fun in the benches and at the ministerial table and cancel the speech.]] OKD is an important company in the coal mining market and has about 11 thousand. staff. He is the largest employer in the Moravian-Silesian Region and at the beginning of the 1990s was a joint-stock company owned by a state to which state property in socialist ownership was earmarked. This company was subsequently privatised, partly in coupon privatisation, partly by sale by the State Restitution Investment Fund and by transfer to municipal property. These shareholders subsequently sold their shares further and Prosper Trading concentrated the largest minority stake, from which Karbon Invest acquired this stake by Viktor Koláček and Petr Otava. I beg you, Mr President, if you could just take it easy...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u3	Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u4	Thank you. After all, this is about setting up a committee of inquiry on an important matter. It would be good for the House of Deputies to have some level of action. We are now coming to the major year 1997, when the state lost its majority in OKD by reducing the company's capital to the detriment of the state, thereby enabling Karbon Invest to dominate OKD. This decision seems pointless and disadvantageous to the State because the State, without adequate consideration, left a decisive influence on OKD's private company. That's the first part of the case. The first part concerning 1997 when the sale took place, respectively. to concentrate, leave the majority in OKD due to a decision on the National Property Fund. We are now coming to the second part of the case, i.e. 2004, when a minority stake in OKD was privatized. In 2004, the government of Stanislav Gross, on a proposal from the then Minister of Finance, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, sold 46 percent minority shares without competition to Karbon Invest, a. s., for 4.1 billion. Crowns. Due to this sale, three persons are now prosecuted, namely the judicial expert Rudolf Doucha and the managers of the National Property Fund Pavel Kuta and Jan Škurk, who participated in the processing of documents at the meeting of the Czech Government. They were accused in court because the conclusion of the contract should have caused the State damage to the amount estimated by the Ministry of Finance over 5.7 billion. Crowns. The Privatisation Treaty also included a number of provisions that were not implemented in practice, e.g. the obligation of the purchaser of the shares to, in the case of the sale of OKD flats, preferably offer these flats to their tenants at a price which corresponds to the value of the valuation of the apartments in privatisation, or the obligation to create sufficient reserves for future costs for the reclamation of the landscape after mining. In fact, as we all know, this pre-emptive right of apartment tenants has not been respected, the company's assets have been largely truncated, and now there is even a risk that the costs of reclamation after mining will be borne by taxpayers. In connection with the prosecution, the court heard former ministers Bohuslav Sobotka and Milan Urban and requested a recording from the March 2004 government hearing showing, among other things, the doubts of the members of the government regarding the privatisation agreement and future treatment of more than 40 thousand. flats that fell into the property of OKD. In criminal proceedings, it is apparent that the valuations of the value of OKD submitted by Minister Sobotka at the government meeting significantly underestimated these flats and did not include in the valuation about 20 subsidiaries as well as other real estate, which justifies the conclusion on the existence of the damage. So that's the second part about which the motion to set up a committee of inquiry is made. And now for the third part. Following the privatisation of a minority stake, ownership of OKD in RPG Industries and then NWR was unified, both of which are associated with Zdeněk Bakala. His company Charles Capital had previously participated in Karbon Invest's actions. OKD issued bonds after the takeover of the NWR, thus obtaining sufficient financial assets from private investors. However, it was subsequently criticised for the inefficient financial operations to reduce creditors, or tunnelling, including the payment of dividends to its owners in excess of the company's profits. This reduced the company's assets and deteriorated the recovery of creditors' claims. In 2016, OKD was declared bankrupt on the basis of its proposal, and in 2017, the court approved the reorganisation of the company consisting of the purchase of shares by the state undertaking Prisko for an amount of 80 million. Crowns. So that's the third part that should be the subject of an investigation committee on OKD. For a group of Members, we believe that, also in connection with the ongoing criminal proceedings and public statements of persons, it is necessary to clearly determine the responsibility for the disadvantageous actions taken on behalf of the State in privatisation of OKD and related events. The conduct of the proposed commission of inquiry does not, by definition, replace the activities of the court in ongoing criminal proceedings, I recall that this concerns only the second matter to be examined by the commission of inquiry, but deals with errors of representatives of the State and possible other illegal actions in a broader context, including the possible liability of persons who are not subject to ongoing criminal proceedings. In this court-martial trial, the responsibility of only three officials is examined. There is only the guilt of the three defendants in criminal proceedings, but there is no political responsibility or share of other persons in the investigation of the case of OKD. [[17.10 hours]] So if this is to be resolved as a whole, if this case is not to end with three officials being held accountable, it needs to be dealt with by a genuine committee of inquiry. The Chamber of Deputies is responsible for citizens and should take all steps to investigate reasonable suspicions of illegal privatisation of profits and socialisation of costs, to take appropriate measures in accordance with the law, and also to reduce in future the motivation of people who are unethically enriching themselves at the expense of the state. An examination of the case of OKD can contribute to this. And now for what should be examined. This is already partially stated in the Houses of the Press 46, in the text of the resolution and in the explanatory report it is also detailed. Firstly, it should be determined who is responsible for the decision of the National Property Fund made in 1996 on the reduction of OKD's capital to the detriment of the State, which resulted in the loss of the decisive influence of the State in the company, which, in connection with the criminal proceedings in the OKD case, was brought to the attention of Mr Bohuslav Sobotka as a witness. And why Mr Sobotka, as the subsequent minister, did not, if he knew, file criminal charges for the state. Secondly, who is responsible for the damage caused by the sale of a minority share package in 2004 approved by the government of the Czech Republic, which was calculated by the Ministry of Finance to at least 5.7 billion. CZK, while - I add that it can also be persons who are not charged in criminal proceedings. Thirdly, how State representatives ensured the enforcement of the interest of the State resulting from the privatisation agreement, i.e. that the OKD had sufficient reserve for the reclamation of the environment after mining and fulfilled the obligation of the pre-emptive right of OKD tenants, as these conditions were enforced, whether the contract was valid, or whether there was any inactivity and who was responsible for it. Fourthly, how was the payment of dividends in the amount that did not correspond to OKD's profits or other similar financial operations, where there is a reasonable assumption that they caused OKD's bankruptcy and the like. So these are the basic four tasks for which we propose a resolution with three points. I. The Chamber of Deputies shall establish pursuant to Rule I (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 30 Constitution of the Czech Republic and pursuant to Section 48 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the examination committee of the Chamber of Deputies for OKD; II. asks the Chamber of Deputies to examine the facts you have in the Houses of Print 46 under points I to III; III. It shall set a period of 10 months from the date on which the commission of inquiry is required to submit its findings to the Chamber of Deputies; IV. designates the number of members of the committee of inquiry to 9 and sets out the majority method of their election, by the parities, so that each member of the assembly club in the Chamber of Deputies has his representative there. Of course, we've also met with reservations that we don't set up an investigation committee for every case and that there are more cases, etc. I think we need to start somewhere. I think this as a privatisation project, one of the first and most significant projects that is being discussed in court, where the documents are published, is a good way to start. Or at least a typical example of where an investigation committee is to be set up. You could be glad that when a fisherman goes fishing, he doesn't catch all the fish. And, of course, we do not have the ambition to investigate everything in this republic through an investigation committee. On the other hand, in that case OKD, there is talk of damage up to 20 billion. CZK to damage the state budget of the Czech Republic. And that's why it's a case for which a committee of inquiry should be set up. Let me conclude by thanking all 93 Members who have signed this proposal and thanks to which there is sufficient support for this Commission of inquiry to be set up. I believe that we will not only be able to establish the commission of inquiry, have its President and its members, but, above all, to present to this Chamber of Deputies, in ten months, findings that will correspond to what all citizens expect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u5	I, too, thank you, and I ask Mr Jakub Michálek to follow with me from the rapporteur's table the general debate that I am opening with this. Vice-President Okamura came forward first to the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I must express my joy that the OKD case has reached the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. Of course, all members of the SPD supported this proposal. During the last parliamentary term, I repeatedly made this matter public, but unfortunately, at that time it was a voice calling out in the desert because of the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. I even filed a criminal complaint three years ago against Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who, however, had a strange fit. Today, the situation is different thanks to voters. We can today, with the full support of our parliamentary club of the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, promote and hopefully also push for the so-called. the case of OKD was dealt consistently, fairly and not only small fish caught. In accordance with the proposal, it is necessary to examine the entire circumstances of the handling of this property. There are serious indications that it was a transfer of state property far below the price. There are serious indications that the Czech state has been deprived of billions of crowns. And tens of thousands of people have been deceived and deceived. The case may point to an extraordinary link between business and political mafias that have interfered with government structures. The facts suggest that the highest political leaders were not deceived, but that they themselves knew how this fraud was going on and could help him. We can't be satisfied that he's in court today, so-called. small fish. These small fish did not plan or decide. These small fish did not even benefit from this tunneling of state property. People in this country don't need scapegoats. They need to know the truth, and they need a thorough and fair investigation in this matter. They have the right to do so, because the billions of the damage that this case has caused and will still cause will be paid out of their taxes. It is necessary to establish a committee of inquiry with a clear proposed assignment, which will proceed in the sense of the explanatory memorandum. It should be recalled once again that this option only gives us the result of the last elections. It is important to emphasise what democracy we have here now. It is not a democracy for robbed people and taxpayers, citizens of the Czech Republic who have paid and paid for this tunnel. It's a democracy for Mr. Bakala and his kind of tunneller. The ordinary people who despise the elite want a different democracy. Democracy to protect everyone's rights and freedom, no matter how much they have in their wallet. Such democracy and freedom must be enforced. It will mean the end of the tunneling of the land's wealth and wealth, and it will mean that the people responsible for such things will actually be held accountable for their actions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u7	Thank you, too. And I've got a de facto... and I don't have a de facto remark here... Now, I have here with the de facto Mr. Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. As a member of the SPD movement - Tomio Okamura from the Moravian-Silesian Region, I definitely welcome and I will certainly support the efforts to create an investigation committee for the OKD case. I'll do it for three reasons. All of them are common denominators, and the denominators are ČSSD and Mr Bakala. The first one is the big case of suspected privatization of OKD, according to me a hundred billion-dollar tunnel and robbery in broad daylight. Its subsequent liquidation and, in particular, the fate of 40,000 mining flats, the fate of which was to be a convenient sale to their then tenants, who paid for them by their work often up to a kilometer underground and not by building a reactionary empire of a well-known thug. Yes, this will be our main task in this committee, which will certainly be set up by the hundreds of thousands of cheated and robbed citizens of our region. Those hundreds of thousands of citizens of our region who, instead of living today, are much more satisfied in their own apartments, which, both morally and by the promise of the government and Mr Bakala, belong to them, must still pay market rent today and whose money, of course, does not work for the regional, but only for Bakalův's economy. At least messed up, but I think the criminal privatization of OKD led to the disappearance of thousands of jobs both in coal mining and in services and dramatically reduces by thousands of crowns a month the purchasing power of those hundreds of thousands of people who today have to sponsor owners of original OKD flats. It is necessary to appoint this committee, because this will not only give us a chance to finally find out the truth about what happened, but we may also be able to send out a clear signal to certain business-political mafia circles and thus prevent us from having to set up two further committees of inquiry in the future, namely the Czech Interior Minister Chovanec, in cooperation -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u9	I'm sorry, but you're running out of time. The actual remarks are intended to respond to the speech, not to read the prepared speeches. [[Let's hear it.]] So now I would like to ask President Kalousek, who reported to me for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to delay. It is, on the one hand, the last point of today, and, on the other hand, President Michálek reminded us that citizens do not wish to discuss whether or not we have an investigation committee, the citizens want us to set it up. Nevertheless, allow me to politely express my opinion on why I cannot support this proposal. I cannot support him because I may be overly sensitive to legal ingence, which has the power of legislative, that is us, against the power of executive on the one hand and against the independent power of judicial on the other. A typical example of the legal ingence that we have against executives is the State Budget Act. This is a de facto executive standard, and all democratic Houses have promoted it to law and approve it as a law. That is why the State Budget Act is only discussed by the House, not the Senate, because the government only answers to the Chamber of Deputies, not to Parliament as a whole. We have the same legal ingerence as the Chamber of Deputies against executives in the event of the right to set up a committee of inquiry in the public interest. And from the logic of the matter, it's there - I'll wait until the MP...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u11	Quiet in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u12	I wanted to give the professor priority, but I wasn't able to convince her. Thank you. We have the same legal power to inge against the power of executives in the case of our right to set up an investigation committee in the public interest. It follows from the logic of the matter that we are setting this up at the moment, or we should establish it at the moment when the executive authorities are not doing, when police are not investigating, the prosecutor does not want to do so, there is a lot of evidence that many things that should not have happened, and the executives do not. In such a case, in the public interest of the House, it sets up a committee of inquiry, which will try to investigate the matter and set it straight. She can't accuse herself because she's not an institution active in criminal proceedings. But if he's dealing with something that might be consistent with or suspected of being a criminal offence, he's handing it over to the relevant prosecutor. But that's not the case. This is where the executive organs took place. This is where the police investigated, the D.A. made the prosecution and delivered it to the court. President Okamura said that the public cannot be satisfied with the fact that there are small fish standing in court, why there are no more fish and no larger fish. But that's the question that's solved. That question was asked by the prosecutor - not the Chovancův police, but the prosecutor with all the control and supervisory mechanisms at his disposal - and he concluded who he suspected of committing a crime, and he brought the matter before the prosecution. And that thing itself is in the main trial in an independent court. The main trial is now underway. And just as we have a few legal ingences against the executive power, for example, to set up an investigation committee, we have absolutely no ingences against the independent decision-making of the judicial power. Now that thing's in court, there's a trial in progress. Court of First Instance, if they find out that some evidence has not been properly investigated, may put it to investigation. The court, if it comes to the conclusion that some of the witnesses lied and did not speak the truth, will draw the consequences of this, for witnessing falsely in a court of law is a criminal offence. But we'll set up a committee of inquiry. And now again, if that committee of inquiry finds out that they think someone else should stand trial, well, he has no choice but to give it to the prosecutor who has already answered that question. In other words - with all due respect to the petitioners, I am sure that this was not their motive - in other words, to set up an investigative committee on this case, where investigations were carried out by law enforcement authorities - which did not do it, and the matter is in the main trial in the court - it seems to me first of all to be useless distrust of the law enforcement authorities that were involved, especially the prosecutors, and there I would like to say that I have complete confidence, and above all, it may seem like an attempt at no longer legal ingenuity towards the independent power of the court. And I consider that - however, I repeat, I am sure it was not the intention of the petitioners - that I consider very dangerous at these times. But I would consider it very dangerous in any other time. So, please, nicely, these are my reasons why I cannot support the establishment of this committee of inquiry. And thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u13	Thank you, too. I have now received a proper statement from the Volný Member. So, please, again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u14	Good evening again, ladies and gentlemen, on the second try. I don't know why I feel right now that my previous speaker is such a symbol of the political-business mafia, I guess I kind of have an idea why he won't support the formation of our investigation committee. Anyway, I'll start where I left off. It is necessary to appoint this committee, because this will not only give us a chance to finally find out the truth about what happened, but we may also be able to send out a clear signal to certain political-business-mafia circles, and this will prevent us from having to appoint two further investigative committees in the future, namely, the Czech Interior Minister Chovanec, in cooperation with Mr Bakala, to rent 21 vermin apartments to immigrants from risky countries such as Iraq, Syria and Afghanistan. Immigrants who, in some way, had no legal way to get from their countries to Havířov without being in another safe country, perhaps only with the exception of importing them into the Moravian-Silesian region ourselves, imported them from other countries, perhaps by a military special. [[17.30 hours]] Perhaps none of them will ever do anything in Europe that would eventually lead to a similar commission. And perhaps the mediation of this committee on OKD will lead to the fact that any minister of any government will never again allow himself so boldly behind the back of the citizens of a particular region to threaten their security. I also hope that the establishment of this commission will prevent us from having to set up a commission in the future to investigate the disposal of lithium supplies or to justify why we pay billions of compensation to a multinational company, because we are once again developing a link between ČSSD and Mr Bakala and that Australian company with global capital, which can open up a branch in Canada at any time or be bought by Canadian company and then blackmail us under the CETA contract. I am practically sure that a similar scenario cannot reliably disprove any significant member of this Chamber of Deputies, neither a member of the government, nor a current or future prime minister. By signing CETA, we have opened Pandořin's box, and today we can only wait when and how we will pay for this mistake. I have no choice but to hope that our BIS closely monitors, analyzes, and those responsible will act. Today, we are those responsible persons. And I'm asking all of us to support the establishment of an OKD investigation committee. It's the right thing to do, and it can save us a lot of trouble for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u15	Thank you, too. And now, please, Mr. De facto? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u16	I would like to make a point of fact about my colleague's speech. I understand that you need to uncover all the things you've said here that demand in society and in politics. I totally understand that. I am from social democracy, and I have no desire to defend anyone. I just don't understand one thing. You mentioned the CETA contract here. It is signed between the Czech Republic and Canada. And the company that was supposed to benefit from the lithium is from Australia. That's right next door.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u17	Another de facto? No, then please, with the proper President Luzar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say here on the microphone that the KSČM Club will support the setting up of an OKD investigation committee for one simple reason that we have been dealing with OKD for a long time and it is not the first performance on this microphone that we are discussing here. I would like to remind my fellow Members of the pirate party of the part of the resolution adopted by this House in the last parliamentary term, I would say by a overwhelming majority of votes across the political spectrum. The resolution, if I reduce it strongly, speaks in Article 3 in the context of these criminal challenges. It asks the Government to instruct the competent executive authorities to clarify the activities which led to the property losses of the Czech State in the privatisation of OKD and, according to the findings, to file a criminal report. To this end, it is necessary to clarify: (a) who decided and tasked a representative of the State in the institutions of the undertaking to vote on the reduction of OKD's capital to the detriment of the National Property Fund, which resulted in a loss of State influence in society; (b) who decided and subsequently carried out the transfer of shares in OKD to municipalities in order to recover those shares after a period of time, through a firm suspected of acting against the interests of the State; (c) who was responsible for not investigating suspicions of illegal financial operations in the privatisation of OKD; (d) who caused the time lags and inactions of the State when foreign investigating and banking authorities drew attention to illegal financial operations; (e) who caused the failure to meet the legitimate expectations of tenants regarding the housing fund of the OKD. Point 4. It requires the government to ensure the mapping of financial flows in the accounts of interested parties, relatives of these persons and companies associated with these persons, which participated directly or indirectly in the privatisation of OKD. 5. It states that privatization of OKD was disadvantageous for citizens of the Czech Republic in both economic and social matters. 6. In the context of these findings, the Czech Republic requires the Government to join the complaint on suspicion of unjustified payment of dividends in OKD and to join as damaged with a claim for damages and with a proposal to secure assets under criminal law, because the State has suffered damage continuously by bailing out losses of OKD, in particular by addressing the payment of miners instead of the debtor company, which the owner has brought into insolvency. So much for the briefly approved resolution that the government of Bohuslav Sobotka responded to. The various ministers who received the tasks have drawn up elaborates on the basis of this resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. However, here I also respond by your means, Mr President, to my colleague Kalousek, who responded that we should not actually interfere with the work that is already underway unless we suspect that the authorities that are responsible do not do as they should. The reply sent by the Prime Minister to the Members through the written response of the various ministries sent by the Prime Minister to the Members on the basis of this valid resolution shows that, for example, the Ministry of Justice is overreacting with the Ministry of the Interior, who is responsible for this investigation and these tasks. For example, the Ministry of Finance, which has FAÚ authorities and others, did not do anything at all and did not apply to any solution to these problems at all. So it is appropriate to ask how far these specific questions, which the Chamber of Deputies asked the government to respond, have been answered. That is why we will also apply to this committee of inquiry and, of course, we will ask why and how the government responded to this House's valid resolution and how it fulfilled the text of this resolution that I read to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u19	Thank you, too. Now with the de facto Mr Volný, then Mr Birke.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u20	My colleague and I have already cleared this up. My comment was that if the Australian company with global supranational capital buys any company that has its headquarters in Canada, or if the company in Canada opens up its representation, at this point, none of us even knows what claims the company either buys the Australian company, or the Australian company itself, if it opens up a branch in Canada, what claims this company will be able to make against the Czech Republic, because it objectively expects some profit here. So I knew that this was a treaty between the Czech Republic and Canada, because it is our relatively large issue in the SPD, and I think and I am absolutely sure that there is no one in this Chamber of Deputies who can responsibly claim that the Czech Republic here is not at risk of billions of arbitration in this potential development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u21	Thank you, too. Now, please, Mr Birke, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u22	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President, I have now witnessed that - I would like to introduce myself to Mr Volný through Mr President. I'm the mayor, and I'm used to everything. In other words, that's the new policy that you're probably gonna be saying right now, that means you're gonna get off, you're gonna get everybody dirty. Because there wasn't a word of truth in your performance. Everything was speculation, plotted, maybe, a lady said. If that's not the case, show one single piece of evidence. If that's not true, then apologize, because it's not true. That's what the investigation committee is gonna be for. We will certainly support her, by your means, but this can't be done like this. In other words, it's your right, no doubt. It is your right, your responsibility - moment, I have not yet agreed - your right and responsibility, to act like this. I'm not talking into your conscience. Whatever. On the other hand, it's really a matter of conscience. I would never dare get off and blame any of you here like that! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u23	Thank you, too. Really, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u24	Dear fellow, I don't know who I should have blamed. I, through Mr President, my colleague, do not know who I should have blamed. I said in my speech that I consider the privatisation of OKD to be criminal. That's one thing. [[17.40 hours]] Then I said that Minister Chovanec for ČSSD signed a contract for the lease of 21 flats for this company in Havířov with the company that managed OKD flats. We even have a deputy from Havířov, Mr. Bělica, who can confirm that we have received the official reply from Havířov City, we have even received information from the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic. In fact, RPG Residomo came to the council, and they all confirmed that the Ministry of Interior rented 21 of these apartments for immigrants from Iraq, Afghanistan and Syria. [[unintelligible]] So I wasn't lying here. I was here telling the truth, which is verifiable with Minister Chovanec. In the next part of my speech I was talking about the potential risk of lithium tipping, which was a big election topic quite practically apart from the ČSSD of all political parties and movements present here. I would like to ask you, through Mr President, to tell me who I have offended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u25	Thank you, too. I would like to ask everyone to come to the point. Is Mr. Birke still reporting? Not anymore. In that case, I have Mr Onderka here for the general debate at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Through Mr President Volný, you have offended me, for example, because you have taken the whole social democracy into your mouth. And I want to warn you that I don't remember the moment, and I'm 52 years old when I'm going to meet Mr. Bakala. That's one. Two. I would fully agree, through Mr President, with Mr Mirek Kalousek's remarks. I have to say, I didn't even dream of going to the House, and my first performance is about saying that my colleague Kalousek is right. That's politics. Yes. Anyway, I have to say that his idea of explaining why we're here as MPs and how the House is supposed to behave was appropriate, and if he put it on paper, I'd like to sign it. There's only one problem, and the problem is public interest. Public interest is not only defined in the legal order. Public interest is also defined in moral terms. It is defined in the way the elites of society behave, starting from the person at the very other end. And from this point of view, we, as Members, must approach the problems in question. And the attitude is pretty clear. OKD became some kind of weapon. SPD-type weapons that use it in the election fight and influence this company's voters with some stories and maybe almost true stories on their part. But there's almost no truth. There is no partial truth, just as there is no partially pregnant woman, because at that moment none of us can imagine whether she is or not. And so it is with the truth. And from this point of view, we need to approach this. That is why the entire Social Democracy Club, which means all the Social Democrats, will support the establishment of this Commission, even though we agree with the interpretation of my colleague Kalousek. I am of the opinion that the commission, as it will be set up, will be dedicated, but nevertheless we are prepared to support it in order to find the other public interest, which means the moral aspect and responsibility of politics in the Czech Republic. Social democracy has freedom, solidarity, justice engraved on its shield. And through the President, Mr Volný, you can laugh about it. From your side, which originated somehow, in some way, there are no victims in the past because you didn't exist. From a 140-year-old party, there were victims during World War I, World War II, and also during the Communist totalitarian regime in that country. And I'd like you to at least realize that a little bit. This means fall to whom, the Social Democrats today will vote in favour of setting up this commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u27	Thank you, too. I now have again, with Mr Volný's factual remark. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u28	Through Mr President, a colleague. If you feel that I don't appreciate the CSSD, you're absolutely right, because I think the party that owes over 300 million crowns and then immediately exploits -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u29	Please get to the point!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u30	Yes. The Member said, Mr President, that I offended him because I offended the entire CSSD. I think it's pointless, so I'm answering his remark. And immediately, she will use the death of her chief creditor to try to humiliate her debt by CZK 100 million, so that's really disgusting. And as I said to the challenger, Mr. Zaorálek, for me personally, it's hysterical. [[unintelligible]] Second thing. Your social democracy shield is very, very dirty. I don't know what's engraved on it, because neither can you, because you can't even see it through the dirt. It's more or less consistent with your result in the election. And another one. I would say that the ČSSD victims who gave their lives in the fight for a good cause must now turn to the grave when they see who is leading the ČSSD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u31	Thank you. I received a report from Mr. Staněk? Mr Staněk with a point of fact? Two minutes. And please get to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u32	Get to the point. Mr President, by your means on the subject of Mr Volný. You're insulting us! You insult us, and I tell you completely openly that social democracy has been ready to play a clean game from the start. But what you're doing here is a lie, a lie, and one more lie!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u33	Now, Mr Kalousek, with the facts. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u34	Thank you for my two minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we're gonna have to rely on the entire term, meet, talk to each other, sometimes try to negotiate something. Starting with condemning the entire political party and insulting someone who is not respectable is, in my opinion, a very bad start to this kind of communication. To that end, I personally have led a number of very sharp fights with social democracy throughout my political career, and undoubtedly on each side, i.e. in social terms, there will be some people I do not appreciate. But to say that I do not appreciate the oldest political state-building party in this country, which has been here for more than a hundred years, which has stood at the birth of the first republic, which had to go into exile after a forced merger with the Communist Party in 1948, which is a state-building party from the November Revolution until today, this is absolutely outrageous in this parliament! And I'm fighting it, and please don't! Who doesn't like it... I would add that this party, apart from its 150 years of state-building existence, has also raised us great ones for our political practice today, such as President Faltýnek. She doesn't deserve insults.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u35	Thank you. I am now reporting with the de facto Mr Bělobrádek. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u36	I would also like to stand up for social democracy, with which we have certainly been the ideal rivals for over 90 years, on the other hand, I wonder if we should also be here, and I seriously think about it, to establish an investigative committee for the tunning of Dawn and the establishment of the SPD, as was the case with the funds and how it is with crystal clear accounts -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u37	[[He's coming in.]] I would like to ask the matter to be done!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u38	- and the flow of money that was from Dawn, how it was billed there, etc. So if you want to continue at this point, I think it's kind of pointless, and we could just forgive ourselves and move on. Insults really aren't exactly appropriate here. So, please, let's keep going, let's vote for what we need to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u39	And now I have Mr. Michálek's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u40	Thank you for the floor. I am merely allowing myself to respond factually to one factual statement from my colleague Kalousek, who actually expressed his disagreement here with the setting up of a committee of inquiry, which justified the fact that part of the suspicions to be investigated by the committee of inquiry is subject to criminal proceedings in another case. I will limit myself only to a very brief statement that in 2001 Mr Ing. Miroslav Kalousek was a member of the investigative committee to clarify the decision of the state in the IPB and, at the same time, criminal proceedings were conducted in this case. Mr Kalousek was even chairman of this commission. So I would ask that we hold some consistency and not use false arguments. I would rather expect Mr Kalousek to perform here with the announcement of a conflict of interest, because in 2010 she received the TOP 09 from Mr Zdeněk Bakala CZK 8 million when he was the first Vice-President. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u41	Thank you. Now please, Mr. Miroslav Kalousek, with the facts. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u42	Sorry, it's starting to get fertile, but if I'm moving into the obvious untruth, I still have to politely retreat. The IPB case was then under investigation and the Chamber of Deputies had an intense feeling that the executive authorities, the police and the prosecutors, were not doing so. That's why she set up an investigation committee. I wasn't here to argue that President Michálek misjudged me by being prosecuted. I argued that the case is in court, that the trial is being conducted and that I am aware of our limits of legal ingence towards the executive power on the one hand and of the judicial power on the other. Sorry to keep you from doing this, but I had to stress that difference. The case is in court, not that the law enforcement agencies didn't do it. They brought it to the courthouse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u43	Thank you. Please, do you want to respond? So please, reaction fast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u44	Just a brief factual remark that the court cannot, of course, suddenly decide to marry another perpetrator. The court shall be bound by the content of the indictment brought before it by the prosecutor. That means, once again, it is an example where the prosecutor decides who is being prosecuted by the prosecution, and the court decides that. So, unfortunately, the argument you made here is not valid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u45	I thank you, and I would like to congratulate Mr Hájek for his turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u46	Good evening, Mr President, colleagues. I'm a little biased. Those who have been here for the second term know that I have been a person who has worked in OKD for about 36 years, so I really have a heart-to-heart relationship with this company. And on 6 December Barborka was, I was at the Czech Mining Authority, where we had such a meeting of representatives of the mining guild, and it was also the day that I attended the press conference to announce that there was an intention to set up this committee of inquiry. On the other hand, I'm asking the ones on the right - it's 2017. The privatisation started in 1990. 1996 was such a major break, and why, for example, Marek Benda, have you been here for 27 years, why haven't you responded in 1997? And I, for one, if I translate Mr Kalousek's words into English to normal people, that is, I don't want to set up a committee because I didn't get eight miles, but 7.5 miles. from Bakala. I would if I got 7.5 miles. from Bakala, so I'm also protecting his shirt! So that's a perfectly logical fair answer: Yes, Bakala gave me 7.5 million in 2010 even though in 2009 I said here at this microphone that I swear by oath that my side will never take a crown from Bakala in my life. Not a penny! And in a year, everything's different. I'm in an election campaign - of course in North Moravia it's a topic. It's a topic, and I've organized a petition because I've dealt with an organization, an association of OKD Flats. They're tired in 13 years. They're tired, people are disgusted, they don't trust us anymore. They don't trust us anymore that we're capable of making this case happen. They say, we don't want anybody in sweatpants anymore, but we want them to say yes here, this happened, you robbed us, you guys - I don't want to use the word Mr. Former Prime Minister, who has that mining expression, it starts with an "o" but it can't be here to not be turned off, but, you know, we use it in Ostrava a lot, it's the word out. It's a little different. But it's just that these people are skeptical, and I think we've been here nine months in the last parliamentary term discussing a point called Information of the Government on the Unfavorable Privatization of OKD. After nine months, we adopted a resolution read here by a colleague from KSČM, and it went away again. So I don't want it to go away. I do not want to put anybody in sweatpants, but in any case on the committee, and today I got a nomination from our club YES that I should be a member of this committee, that is, if the House, of course, approves its establishment, and I will try to make use of the gaps that are still in the 2004 privatisation agreement, which say that if the European Commission proves that there has been a disadvantageous privatisation of OKD, the Czech Republic can withdraw from this contract, which gives hope to 44 thousand tenants of flats plus there is still some 5 700 hectares of land. Yes, the ducts are tweaked. Of course, I am terribly sorry because it is a company that has a 200-year tradition, survived feudalism, capitalism, Hitler, socialism, early capitalism - and did not survive Bakala. He's standing on the shores of Lake Geneva today, smoking his cigar and laughing at what we're doing here. Well, that bothers me so much personally, and I'm never gonna accept it. So let's see who the other parties are going to nominate. I know that there is a colleague Luzar from Ostrava from KSČM, who also deals with this issue. I'm ready to work really actively on that committee. On the other hand, I know in our Rules of Procedure that a witness does not have to testify if he feels he can be prosecuted for it. I'm not a lawyer, on the other hand, it's been 21 years since 1996, so many of these things will be cut short. But on the other hand, I will recapitulate once again, those people here in North Moravia from Karvina County, Frýdek-Místek, Opava, Ostrava, who are affected by this privatization, who are disadvantageous, if I use the expression that we approved here in the House, they want to have some fat line to say: this is the culprit, these have butter on their head and these should at least morally answer to the citizens of the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u47	Thank you, too. I have now received a factual report from Mr Blažek. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u48	Good evening. Thank you for the floor. The word parliament originally had different meanings in different languages, so in the last Bourbon in France Parliament was a judicial authority, it was no parliament in our conception. And we're actually doing exactly the same thing here, where basically what to set up that committee for when you know the culprits from the speeches! So I propose a resolution: the ČSSD and Sobotka are responsible for everything, we don't have to investigate it, because you're clear already, for everything from the 1990s, and then the ODS, the CSSD, where and whomever you want, we don't have to investigate it again, because it's true. It wasn't the pirát and the SPD because they didn't exist at the time, and we don't have to investigate anything! And I'm worried that this is exactly the purpose of this committee for this to be played here, and she was starting to have a reason that it was really meant to serve just to show some of them how they didn't do anything. Well, they can't. They just didn't exist back then, maybe they weren't even in the world. So let's vote it out! It's all because of the CSSD, the ODS, whoever you want, and let's move on. And you're not to blame, plaintiffs. You can't! It's true!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u49	Thank you. I now have Mr Onderka's factual remark. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u50	I would like to add, through Mr Blažek, the President. Donald Duck and then Imperialists at a certain time. Anyway, I'm just gonna answer my ANO colleague who's gonna be nominated for social democracy. Social democracy will be nominated for the Luboš Zaorálek commission because it is from the region and it knows the issue without a doubt, from people starting from business to business, probably from social democrats to the best.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u51	I thank you and now I have Mr Bartošek's duly signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u52	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'm gonna go free on the foreman. It is really important that we do not confuse the Chamber of Deputies for the People's Court. I am in favour and as folklore, we will support the establishment of this commission of inquiry. We will nominate Pavla Golasowská for us because she is from the Moravian-Silesian Region and we are happy to have such a representative there. What I want to talk about, of course - and I support you in your desire for the truth, to find out how things are, that justice should be done, that just as you are now acting zealously, so you will want to know the truth about the čapí's hnízdo. This means, when the request for extradition to Mr Faltýnek and Mr Babiš, the future Prime Minister, comes in the same way as you will speak here and say yes, we want to know the truth, we will not defend the law enforcement authorities, and we will make it possible for us to know the truth! Because otherwise, I'd have to assume you're suffering from a selective desire for truth. Otherwise, I might assume you're suffering from one of Egypt's eight plagues, blindness. And what do you mean by the truth? The truth is just for someone? Are only a few supposed to know? Seven shots, yes. [[Response to a note from the diaper.]] Are only a few supposed to know? Is it only to be allowed to anyone? Does our desire for truth apply to someone and not to someone anymore? I don't know. Personally, I think the future will show not only OKD, but overall, how you relate to the truth. And another way to the foreman of the SPD. I'm not a member of social democracy. He's our competitor. But it is indeed a party with a long history whose members had to lay down their lives for freedom and truth. As well as KDU-ČSL members. Your party only has a history of dubious Facebook profiles. When your members have to give their lives for what they believe, when you have people in your history who have been tortured in concentration camps, they've been killed by a totalitarian regime, then judge.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u53	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Michálek Club is now reporting to me with a factual remark. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u54	Thank you for the floor. I would really ask that we go back to the factual discussion which is intended to address the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry for OKD. I assure the previous speaker that, just as I am doing in detail the case of OKD, he may ask, for example, my colleague Gazdík, so in the mandate and immune committee, I am doing a very detailed work on the case of Chapi Nest. So we're dealing with everything the way it's supposed to be handled, and he can make sure of his colleagues who can guarantee it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u55	Thank you, too. Now, President Radim Fiala. No? Not anymore? He's downloading his application. In that case, at this point, I don't have anyone enrolled in the general debate, so the general debate is over. I'll ask the rapporteur if he has the final word. He doesn't. So let's move on to the debate in detail. I am opening up a detailed debate and asking if anyone is reporting or if we will re-read the motion for a resolution. I ask the rapporteur to re-read the motion for a resolution or at least refer to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u56	Mr President, I propose that the Chamber of Deputies should act as stated in House document No. 46 which was delivered to Members on 6 December 2017 at 16.04 means Chamber of Deputies I. It shall be established in accordance with Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. 30 Constitution of the Czech Republic and pursuant to Section 48 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the OKD Committee of Investigation; II. asks the Chamber of Deputies to examine OKD 1) the transfer of shares of OKD, a. s., from the ownership of the Czech Republic to the ownership of other persons, the reduction of the registered capital of OKD, a. s., the subsequent procedure for controlling OKD, a. s., and the sale of a minority stake of the State in OKD, a. s., 2) the performance of the obligations by the acquirer of the shares which have been committed to them by the share purchase agreement of 16. 9. 2004 and other facts needed to examine the entire privatisation process of OKD, a. s., including the examination of the causes and circumstances which led to the bankruptcy of OKD, a. s., 3) the activities of the State authorities and other persons responsible for the property operations in the privatisation of OKD, a. s. and, at the time before the bankruptcy of OKD, a. s., or were to exercise control or supervision over them; III. It shall set a period of ten months from the date on which the commission of inquiry is required to submit its findings to the Chamber of Deputies; IV. determines the number of members of the committee of inquiry at 9 and determines the majority method of their election, by one representative from each member club: YES 2011 - 1 member, ODS - 1 member, Pirates - 1 member, SPD - 1 member, KSČM - 1 member, ČSSD - 1 member, STAN - 1 member, TOP 09 - 1 member, KDU-ČSL - 1 member. So much for a motion for a resolution. I assume that, after this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, there would be a very quick electoral commission to declare a deadline for the election commission to be cast, and then the same on Friday, when it would be for the chairman of the commission of inquiry, so that we would act in such a way that the committee of inquiry will be set up before Christmas. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u57	Thank you. I'm just gonna make it clear. After we have approved, if necessary, the establishment of the Commission, President Kolovratník requested a break for a meeting of the Election Commission and we would announce deadlines if necessary. Thank you for reading the proposal and ending the detailed debate, because I do not have any more applications for it. I'll ask if we want another final word. We don't. In that case, we will move on to the vote. I'm asking everyone to sign up if they're not here. Initiating vote number 33. All in favor, raise your hand and turn yourself in. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 33 was 169, for it was 153, against 1. The resolution was adopted. [[Let's hear it for the Pirates.]] Thank you, everyone. So that concludes this point. Can we have two minutes? We'll take two minutes break in 19 o'clock. [[Laughter and noise in the hall.]] Sorry. By 6:10 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u58	Quiet in the hall, please. We'll continue. Prime Minister, is that enough for you? [[to the Member of the Colloversary]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u59	That's enough for me. Hello, hello, may I have your attention, please? One last short sentence from the electoral committee: the deadline for fulfilling the newly established OKD investigation committee is set by tomorrow, i.e. until Wednesday, December 13, until 18:00. And now an important explanation - this is also for colleague Michálek when he was designing the next time. At this committee we are now about to move forward, which means I will recapitulate: Tomorrow we will receive proposals for the election commission to be fulfilled, it will be discussed at the electoral committee on Thursday morning, and on Friday we will fill this committee and cast the House vote. Only then can I make a motion to the chairman of the commission, and there, again, will be 24 hours between our committee and the choice itself. If we didn't leave the deadline until next week for Monday or Tuesday, we wouldn't have been able to elect the chairman of the commission next week, she wouldn't have worked, it would have been until January. So I'm gonna take the liberty of calling or asking the members of the club's management to make a deal, and tomorrow you have a grémium, so maybe there's a discussion... In theory, if there was an agreement, it is possible to declare a deadline for the chairman of the commission on Friday, we would discuss it, and then next Tuesday, at the third reading, it could be voted on by the President of this electoral commission. But I repeat, that must be agreed by the chairmen of the political factions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u60	Thank you, too. I have yet to hear from President Berkovec with an organizational remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a pleasant evening. I'm just reminding the members of the electoral committee that in ten minutes in number 23, a quick meeting. Thank you. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u62	Thank you, too. By doing so, we have exhausted everything we had planned for today, so we will interrupt the meeting of the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Friday 15. Twelve, nine o'clock. [[There's an application from the diaper.]] Any other organizational ones?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u63	I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen and President, I do not know what practice is here, but I think that the last government here ends up with us today, and I think that nothing would have happened if we could at least thank them for the work they did here. I'd like to thank them for that, and I wish them all the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-019-029.u64	I hope that was the last organizational comment at this time, and I am interrupting the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by Friday 15. 12 to 9 o'clock. Good night, everyone.
