ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u1	263. Financial Stability Report 2015/2016 /Household printing 849/ Once again, I welcome Mr. Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok. This report was submitted by the Czech National Bank in accordance with Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 849/1. I now ask the rapporteur of the budget committee, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, I will leave a report on financial stability, I suppose, on the contribution of the Governor and only make a very brief comment. The financial sector of the Czech Republic has been undergoing favourable developments since spring 2015 in terms of financial stability. The already high resistance of the sector to possible adverse shocks has been strengthened year-on-year and the Czech National Bank continuously responds to an increase in cyclical risks by providing appropriate tools. The Czech National Bank report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets at its 45th meeting on 31 August and adopted the following resolution, which I will allow you to read, and later I will sign up to it in a detailed debate: Following the opening words of Deputy Governor of the Czech National Bank Vladimír Tomšík, a report by Jaroslav Klaška and a debate by the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament I. Notes the Czech National Bank's Financial Stability Report 2015/2016; II. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank's Report on Financial Stability 2015/2016; III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u3	I thank the rapporteur and I am opening a general debate, which is the first to be heard by the Governor. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u4	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to give you a brief presentation of the Financial Stability Report 2015/2016 and to comment on some of its main conclusions. As the rapporteur has already said, the report has, of course, fallen slightly behind with regard to the procedures, I will try to update things in my contribution. In general, these reports on financial stability, which we are preparing within the framework of our mandate, which concerns the prudentness of financial stability, address, in particular, the risks that may arise over the next two to three years in the capacity of the Czech financial system to withstand these risks and address those reports with what tools to limit these risks, where appropriate. The report is already the 12th report of the Czech National Bank on financial stability and is now being issued on the basis of Section 2 of the CNB Act, when we are responsible for the implementation of the so-called Act. macro-prudential policies. The current economic environment increases the importance of this policy and work in this area. The combination of domestic economic recovery and globally very relaxed monetary policies creates conditions for taking increased risks or sometimes underestimating them on the part of financial market operators. It is therefore our responsibility to respond to emerging risks to financial stability within the framework of the macro-prudential policy mandate. We use a number of tools aimed primarily at the banking sector to fulfil this mandate. It is a completely dominant part of our financial sector in the Czech Republic. In order to increase the resilience of the banking sector, we use so called. macro-prudential capital reserves, which means essentially forcing banks to keep increased capital items in their reserves, so that in times that unfortunately may occur and probably sometime in the future, that is, in times of more complex financial market developments, there were certain cushions that would then be used to strengthen banks' capital amenities. At the moment, all banks are required to maintain the security reserve at a level of 2,5 percent of the share capital since 2014. We set a reservation to cover systemic risk for the first time in 2014 for four so-called. the most systemically important banks and we are obliged to re-evaluate them every two years. In 2016, the number of these systemically important banks was extended to five and the reserve is now in force between one and three percent, for individual banks the reserve is set differently according to their risk profile and importance within their position on the Czech banking market. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The main purpose of the analyses contained in the report is to identify potential sources of risk for financial stability for the future, in the following years. The report notes that there has been a certain increase in cyclical risks, which is linked in particular to the recovery of loan demand and the general release of credit standards. In December 2015, therefore, the Czech National Bank responded to the shift of the domestic financial cycle into a more pronounced recovery phase by setting the so-called rate. countercyclical capital buffers of 0,5 per cent of the exposures of banks located in the Czech Republic with effect from 1 January this year. The aim of this provision is to strengthen the resilience of the financial system in the event of excessive growth in credit dynamics, in other words to create more capital in the event of increased credit losses at an unfavourable stage of the financial cycle. If there is further growth in cyclical risks, we are prepared to increase this rate further, of course always with some period that will be sufficiently ahead of schedule. The report further states that the accumulation of risks occurs mainly in the housing market. The growth in credit dynamics continues in this market, but also in real estate prices. Low interest rates on new housing loans and high rates of growth thus contribute not only to household debt, higher debt and growth, but also to growth in residential property prices. These are barely reaching pre-crisis peaks yet, but they're getting close. It is of course regionally very different, somewhere this maximum may have already been overcome last year. However, we consider them slightly overvalued in the report. I would say that in 2016 this development has been confirmed in the coming months and is increasing further. There is thus a certain risk of developing a spiral between property prices and loans for their acquisition. While the Czech National Bank is not currently assessing the development of housing loans as an acute overheating that would lead to immediate risks to financial stability in the market, we decided to tighten our recommendations for managing the risks associated with the provision of these loans to households or, say, retail consumers of secured residential real estates last year. [[9.30 hours]] This measure was already adopted in June 2015 and was subsequently tightened up. It was tightened so that the current limit, the maximum limit of the value of the loan to the value of the collateral, the so-called LTV of 100%, was reduced from October 2016 to 95 per cent and from April 2017, or a few months later, to 90 per cent. The limit for the maximum volume of newly granted loans in the highest delivered LTV interval will also be tightened. This means that the bank will have to regulate its trade policy according to these recommendations. If the domestic property market shows increasing signs of overheating and riskier credit characteristics over the next period, we are prepared to tighten these conditions, if necessary. This does not only concern the LTV indicator, we monitor and recommend banks to work with other instruments, such as indicators of the client's ability to repay credit from own resources or the ratio of the debt service and the net income of the applicant for credit. In this context, we are also seeking a legislative anchoring of the CNB's competence to set credit institutions' upper limits on these credit indicators. This was also recommended by the International Monetary Fund in the final report of the last regular mission in the Czech Republic, and it is also a generally recommended procedure of the European Systemic Risk Committee, which we are part of. This proposal was prepared along with the Ministry of Finance, and you may have noticed that this week, the government agreed to this proposal as part of the amendment to the Czech National Bank Act, so your Chamber of Deputies will soon look into it. Finally, let me conclude by saying that, in general, the already high resistance of the banking sector to possible adverse shocks has been strengthened in the period under review. This is confirmed by regular stress tests and their positive results. In particular, the increase in capital adequacy, favourable liquidity developments and positive changes in risk management by financial institutions contributed to this. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u5	Thank you, Mr. Governor. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. Please, Mr. Pilsner. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Dear fellow Members of the Government, Mr Governor, I confess that I am not a member of the committee on which this report was discussed, I have not read the report, I confess, but I have listened carefully to you and I am particularly interested in the passage on housing, or in the lending of housing. We know what led to the mortgage credit bubble in the United States, and I only have one question. Do you have any signals or specific numbers that would increase the number of creditors who are unable to repay mortgage loans? [[debtors?]] If I may. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u7	Thank you. The governor wants an answer. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Let me answer that. Of course, we are very closely and with a high frequency monitoring all the quality characteristics of our banks' credit portfolios, in which, of course, loans granted to housing secured by real estate play an important role today. I can assure you, I did not want to comment on the report much, but the situation so far is that in general, the rate in the Czech banking sector of so-called non-performance loans, that is, those outstanding or in some way poor-quality loans, is highly below average in Europe. We're moving around 4.5, 4.7 percent of all loans today. For mortgage loans, this rate is even better, traditionally Czech banks are cautious in this regard. Moreover, we are experiencing a situation that is favourable from the point of view of debtors, that is, we have high employment, we have rising wages, so the rate of default of these loans is very low. I can't exactly tell you the number in your head, but from what I remember historically, it was always around 2%. So we don't see any acute danger here. This indicator is not increasing, but we are trying to do as I have already said, I would say prophylactic, preventive measures so that, where appropriate, the level of risk does not increase even when the conditions are worse, especially with regard to the earnings of debtors. At this point, the situation is certainly favourable, we are very closely monitoring it, and I believe that it is precisely steps in the area of macroprudential policy that will lead to a safe interface in this regard for the future for worse times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u9	děkovat you, Mr. Governor. I also announce that the Prime Minister has a replacement card number 31 for the vote. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. We will proceed to the debate in detail, which is the first to be heard by the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to sign up and refer to my intelligence report and the resolution that I made in it, with the recommendation of the Committee on Budgets to the Chamber of Deputies to take note of the Czech National Bank's report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-001-263.u11	Thank you. If no one else reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude a detailed debate. If there is no interest in the final words, we will vote on the motion for a resolution, as presented by the rapporteur. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. Sorry, excuses. Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes today from 14:00 for reasons of work, Mr First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš apologizes for all of today's work, and Ms Gabriela Hubáčková apologises today from 9:00 to 12:00 because of negotiations in the electoral region. That was it. And we will vote on the resolution, as the rapporteur has said. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a vote of 164. 159 Members and Members are registered, for 129, against none. The proposal was adopted unanimously. I thank the Governor and the rapporteur. They'll both hold a seat at the newsstand because the next point is
