ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-006-022.u1	22. Proposal for the election of the Presidents of the Permanent Commissions of the Chamber of Deputies
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-006-022.u2	Mr President, thank you so much for the floor. I will apologize to you, colleagues, for the short interruption of the budget. But I do know that both you and the media are waiting for the results of all the committees, and I would like to introduce you to the results quickly. In all cases 186 ballots were submitted in the elections. This means that the quorum required for the election of each candidate or candidate was 94. Anyone who wanted to be elected must have won at least 94 votes. And now, in the order that those committees were elected. A standing committee of the Chamber of Deputies for the work of the Office of the House of 186 tickets. There were two candidates here. Pavel Kováčik received 107 votes and Ondřej Profant 49, so Pavel Kováčik became chairman of this commission. [[12.30 hours]] A standing committee of the Chamber of Deputies for the work of the Office of the House, 186 tickets. There were two candidates here. Pavel Kováčik received 107 votes and Ondřej Profant 49, so Pavel Kováčik became chairman of this commission. The second commission is a permanent commission of the House for Family, Equal Opportunities and National Minorities. Jana Pastuchová from YES received 176 votes, so she was elected with a strong mandate and is chairman of this commission. In addition, the House Committee on Control of the Activities of the General Inspection of Security Corps. Even here 186 ballots, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček received 85 votes, so he did not reach the necessary kvora and was not elected chairman of this commission. The choice is secret and two-way. This means that the second round of the election will be repeated in this case. So far, either provisionally or unofficially, after the debate with the representatives of the MPs, I assume that the second round could take place on Tuesday at 14 o'clock at the start of the programme if there is political agreement. Next - a permanent commission for monitoring the use of wiretapping and recording of telecommunications traffic. The candidate Tomáš Vymazal won 173 votes and was also elected with a strong mandate by the chairman of this commission. In addition, the Central Account Recording Committee. Even here, the only candidate Karel Krejza won 168 votes and was elected chairman of this commission. Next in order - the permanent commission of the House for the control of the activities of the Security Information Service. Pavel Bělobrádek received 152 votes and was also elected chairman of this commission. Commission for the control of the activities of the NBU. The proposed candidate, Miloslav Rozner, for the SPD - 134 votes, also becomes chairman of this commission. Next in order - a permanent commission of the House for the control of the activities of Military Intelligence. I don't read the numbers because in all cases, 186 tickets were issued and thevorum was the same in all cases. So the Military Intelligence Control Committee, Vít Rakušan 153 votes and becomes chairman of this commission. Commission for the control of the activities of the Financial Analytical Office. František Vácha 172 votes, also with a strong mandate, becomes chairman of this commission. The NSA's Permanent Audit Committee, that's the last of that series of committees, the National Security Bureau. Pavel Jelínek was the only candidate and won 167 votes and is chairman of this commission.
