ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u1	89. Final report of the Chamber of Deputies' commission of inquiry to investigate whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from such files, and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law The final report, together with the motion for a resolution for the House, is available as document number 6740. I ask the President of the Commission, Mr Plíšek, to present this document and this report. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, I am also referring directly to House document number 6740, and let me now introduce you to the essential part of the final report of the committee of inquiry, whose name the President has just said here, so I will just say a shortcut: the committee of inquiry. So by order of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, number 1678 of the 57th meeting, pursuant to Article 30 of the Constitution and in its up-to-date version, and according to the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure, a commission of inquiry was established and the Chamber of Deputies by the same order requires the Commission to examine whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from these files and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law. Then we came to the fact that this commission was staffed, that is, by resolution 1697 from 7 June to 57 June, members of the committee were elected, namely fellow Members of Marek Benda, Petr Kudela, Lukáš Pleticha, Martin Plíšek, Jiří Štětina, Radek Vondráček and Josef Zahradníček. Martin Plíšek was elected chairman of the Commission at the 59th meeting on 12 July. Let me just remind you that, given that the chairman was elected on 12 July, the commission had about two months to do its work. In accordance with the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and in agreement with the Head of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Kateřina Bartošová, Director of the Security Department of the Chamber of Deputies, has been appointed as Secretary of the Commission. I, at the outset, want to thank her team, the officials of the relevant department for the administrative tasks associated with the Commission's activities and for the impeccable service for the Commission's investigation. The first meeting of the Commission took place on 13 July 2017. Jiří Štětina, the verifiers of colleagues Benda and Zahradníček, was elected Vice-President of the Commission. The members of the Commission voted that the meetings of the Commission would not be public. Nevertheless, we have tried to inform as much as possible about the progress of the investigation through the media. [[14.30 hours]] The Commission, aware of the complexity of the task and the limited length of the mandate, immediately at its first meeting set out a plan, a procedural procedure and a timetable for the investigation, which would, of course, be adapted to the needs of new information over time. It identified and identified the persons who needed to be heard as witnesses and secured their summons. In the case of stakeholders, she requested documents relating to the task entered. She met at a total of eleven meetings and actively spent 44 hours of time on them. There were witness interviews at six meetings. The Commission has heard a total of 26 Witnesses and guests, of which two Witnesses twice. One Witness sent his observations in writing because of long - term abroad. 723 pages of documents have been collected during the commission's work, of which 169 pages form the witness's interrogation protocols. All Commission documents were stored in the Commission's meeting room in a private area secured for the processing and storage of classified information, where the members of the Commission were granted access to security personnel as required. The Commission has ceased its activities within the deadline, i.e. until 12 September of this year. So now I'm going to go to part III of the report, which is an essential fact finding. In May and June of this year, information on interviews between Marek Přibyl appeared in some media until 3 May 2017 by the editor of Mladá Fronta Dnes, and Andrej Babiš, who give the impression that this journalist has non-public information from ongoing criminal proceedings. In the context of the current government crisis, there was an urgent need to address the long-term problem of the abuse of information from criminal proceedings and, apparently, the criminal proceedings themselves, influencing political competition and destabilising the democratic rule of law of the Czech Republic. Since the unprecedented intervention of the Organized Crime Detection Unit under the supervision of the Supreme Prosecutor in Olomouc on the central authorities of state power, with the subsequent collapse of government and early elections, it has been notoriously known that interest criminal cases with political interference are directly monitored by the media and commented accordingly, which would in fact not have been possible without prior information to specific journalists in order to create public support for the actions of specific law enforcement authorities, irrespective of the legality of their procedure, i.e. contrary to the purpose of criminal proceedings within the meaning of Article 1 (1) of the Treaty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In doing so, management must act to consolidate the legality, prevention and prevention of crime, to educate citizens in a spirit of consistent observance of the laws and rules of civil coexistence and the honorable fulfilment of obligations to the State and society. Paragraph 2 states that helping to achieve the purpose of criminal proceedings is both a right and a duty of citizens under the provisions of this law. The factors affecting the Commission's activities were, on the one hand, a historically extremely short period of time to fulfil its purpose and, on the other hand, a large number of essential materials necessary for a thorough assessment of the issue. The Commission notes that information has been leaked from criminal files for a long time and is taking place. This is a dangerous phenomenon, which can and is a means of lobbying groups to infiltrate criminal proceedings, where, subsequently through manipulative public opinion creation, the influence of these groups can take place, even in order to influence political competition, thereby destabilizing the democratic rule of law. Escapes of information from criminal proceedings, their purposeful interpretations and subsequent targeted public opinion creation are a fatal threat to constitutionality. The fundamental facts identified and the correction of shortcomings in the legislation are thus also a task for the other Chamber of Deputies. It is clear from the investigation carried out that there are unauthorized leaks of information from criminal proceedings. This logically also gives rise to undue competitive advantages both political and commercial, and finally gives rise to the possibility of destabilising democratic rule of law. On the other hand, according to the simultaneous control mechanisms, the facts of the leaking of information from criminal proceedings cannot be established. The following may be referred to as the most relevant facts from the evidence made. 1) The Commission based its initial facts on the possible disclosure of information from criminal files, in cases Recordings Přbil - Babiš, case Nečas - Nagyová/Nečasová, Beretta, Vidkun, case of OKD - e-mail leaks of Mr Přikryl, misuse of subsidies for sport by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and subsidy case of Mr Dušek in the Liberec Region. 2) Escapes of information from criminal files from the point of view of law enforcement authorities may be broken down according to the stage at which the criminal proceedings take place. This is mainly a distinction between leaks prior to and after the initiation of criminal prosecutions. This time shall be determined in particular with regard to the circle of the entities to which the criminal file is made available. However, from the point of view of the definition of escape and its purpose, the initiation of a criminal prosecution is not very decisive. (3) The Commission has assessed the existing internal and external control mechanisms of individual parties to the criminal proceedings, in accordance with the observations of the witnesses and their recommendations. (4) The Commission carried out witness interviews, considered and examined the most relevant facts relevant to the assessment of the legality and objectives of the information flows from criminal proceedings and became familiar with the following proposals. - I stress that these are the proposals of the witnesses, so they are not the proposals of the committee of inquiry. But I consider it appropriate that if the witnesses have given us any recommendations or suggestions at the end of their testimony, so that some of them are listed here. So here are their suggestions: (a) Consider whether it is okay to allow access to unfinished criminal files at decisive stages of criminal proceedings to certain parties. (b) Focus on the whole set of measures in which, at the very beginning, it is desirable to obtain a comparative analysis of European law on what can and cannot be published and what obligations are laid down by the media or individual journalists abroad; do not forget the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. Primarily, however, save things also in relation to the subjects who will transmit the information to journalists. (c) Focus on the press law, in relation to the case law of the European Court of Human Rights, which speaks of freedom of expression, but also of responsible journalism. It defines certain moments when certain information should not be disclosed. Consider the penalties for publication unless the public interest outweighs the interests of others. d) Focus on the Government's bill on private detectives, precisely in terms of preventing evasion from criminal proceedings into the private sphere. (e) tighten up the law on the protection of personal data; include in it a direct text that wiretaps or surveillance, personal searches, house searches and tours of other premises carried out for the purposes of criminal proceedings are personal data and recordings shall not be made public unless the designated person is given permission by publication, under the weight of the relevant penalty. [[14.40 hours]] 5) The Commission has received, requested analyses, statistics and other supporting documents relating to the case under consideration. It has evaluated these and is based on them in its conclusions, which are part of the dossier. The Commission is obliged to conclude on a summarily that the materials submitted and on the basis of the facts found clearly show that there is a visible increase in leaks of information from criminal files, although the leaks generally occurred a long time ago. As an example, it is appropriate to refer, for example, to the statistical survey submitted by the General Inspection of Security Corps, which contains the number of files of the year concerned with the issue of leaking information to security forces. According to the statistics presented, the issue of escape from criminal proceedings in 2014 was 37 cases, 31 cases in 2015, 52 cases in 2016 and 21 cases in the first half of this year. However, it is important, among other things, that in 2014 and 2015, the issue concerned only 3 cases of pending files, but in 2016 the number of files increased to 13 and in 2017 we are already talking about 16 files still outstanding, in just half of this year. 6) During the meeting of the Commission, the lack of clarity regarding the factual and local jurisdiction of the investigation of illegal evasion in terms of the competence of GIBS and the prosecutors, i.e. the competence of GIBS to investigate prosecutors, the question of bias, economy and the effectiveness of criminal proceedings and so on. 7) The Commission found that the judicial interpretation narrowed down the restrictions laid down in Law No 7 106, on free access to information, in particular in relation to § 11 (1) (a) of the EC Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) access to criminal information. Chapter IV. contains a legal framework for information flows from criminal proceedings. We came from these basic documents - I will not say and read the names of laws and other legislation to shorten time. Of course, we have worked with some concepts in the investigation. Of course, an important term is "public interest." In a very simple way, the public interest can be regarded as the opposite of the private interest, i.e. the interest of the whole society, beneficial to the entire company. The legal dictionary of the publishing house C·H·BECK contains certain characteristics of public interest formulated by Professor Aleš Gerloch, who calls it a kind of interest that is generally beneficial, in particular the interest of the state or other public-law corporation, the opposite of purely private interest. It applies to the creation, interpretation and application of the law, especially as one of two reasons for the legal limitation of fundamental rights and freedoms. Since it is one of the legal terms with sharp meaning, it should be specified or defined in the laws. It should be noted that "the interest of the State' does not mean the interest of state power in the sense of totalitarianism, but this phrase must be understood as an interest of society. The problem is that descriptions, definitions, definitions and the like that try to describe the substance of the term "public interest" are multiple, but there is no such thing as to exceed others, i.e. those that would be considered to be decisive, fundamental, or even universal. The phrase "public interest" is part of the Charter, the Criminal Code, the Press Act, the Civil Code, the Act on the Property of the Czech Republic and its representation in legal relations, the Act on Conflict of Interest, the Protection of Nature and Landscape, the Railways and so on. The term "public interest" thus works in the Czech legal order of a number of regulations, including the highest legal force, but the definition of this phrase is missing in the vast majority; an exception may be, for example, a law on railways, where the definition of this law can be used exclusively for the purposes of this law. Furthermore, public interest, as I have already mentioned, is defined, for example, in the Tian law. The public interest is mentioned in the press law in Section 6, which states: "In the urgent public interest, the publisher is obliged to publish in the periodic press an important and urgent announcement by the public authority and the local authority, in particular an obligation to publish a decision on an emergency situation, a state emergency situation or a state of war." The collection of information from criminal proceedings is therefore without prejudice to the provision cited; The public interest is thus not accentuated from the point of view stated by the press law. Then, of course, public interest in the Code of Criminal Procedure is important for this issue. The collection of information from criminal proceedings relates to Section 8d of the Criminal Code, which in its paragraph. 1 states that: "Information which is subject to a prohibition of publication pursuant to Sections 8a to 8c may be published to the extent necessary for the purposes of the search for persons, for the purpose of criminal proceedings, or if this law so permits. That information may also be made public when justified by the public interest when it prevails over the right to privacy of the person concerned.'; I will just add that the conflict between the public interest and the really fair trial and the right to privacy is intersecting with findings, and the border is therefore very thin. It can therefore be concluded that the Criminal Code provides for a breach of the prohibition of publication in such a case where the right of the public to be informed outweighs the protection of the privacy of the person concerned. Definition of the leak of information from criminal proceedings and its sources. The legal absence of such a legal concept can be stated at the outset, where the interpretation can define the leak of information from criminal proceedings as unlawful disclosure of information in the section of criminal proceedings in its non-public stage, i.e. in the period of examination and investigation. It is necessary to base its initial distribution on information leaks and disclosures and to divide these into the following four circuits according to the motivation of the leak agent or publication: an unauthorized escape, which aims to deconspirate the activities of law enforcement authorities and fail to fulfil the purpose of criminal proceedings; unauthorized leaks which are aimed at diffamation and dehonestation of a specific natural or legal person, or, where appropriate, political parties or movements, etc. with a view to achieving a personal, commercial or political advantage in competition with interests; authorised publication within the meaning of Section 8a of the Criminal Code by law enforcement authorities which are obliged to inform the public of their activities by providing information to public media with the restrictions I have referred to above; legitimate disclosure within the scope of the defence, i.e. carried out by the defendant or his lawyer within the meaning of Section 16 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 and 2 of the Law of Advocates in the context of the exercise of the rights of defence and the duty of the defence lawyer to use all legal means consistently and to apply, in the interests of the client, everything that he believes to be beneficial, but under the current obligation to waive the confidentiality of the lawyer by his client in order to create a positive media image of the client in his interest and within the framework of the defence concept strategy. The next item is 3, which is the general regulation of control mechanisms for the treatment of information in criminal proceedings. Here I would refer to internal and external instruments for individual actors. Again I would like to refer to the report, that is, first the lawyers are discussed, then the judges, then the members of the Police of the Czech Republic and GIBS, then the prosecutors. [[14.50 hours]] The report also contains a comparison of foreign criminal liability arrangements in the provision of investigative and criminal documentation, including an assessment of the role of journalism. Here I would really refer to the analyses of the Parliamentary Institute, because they are available to you and are contained in the report, so I will not read for saving time. However, what also greatly influenced the work of the Commission was the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, its Grand Chamber, of 29 March 2016 in Case Bédat v Switzerland. Although the European Court of Human Rights underlines that the press plays a crucial role in democratic society when it performs the so-called function. The watchdog of democracy, and its task is to mediate information on all matters of public interest, also stresses that the press must not cross certain borders, particularly in relation to the reputation and rights of others and in connection with the protection of confidential information. The protection provided to journalists under Article 10 of the Convention is conditional on acting in good faith in order to provide accurate and reliable information in accordance with the principles of responsible journalism, which include the legality of the journalist's conduct, which is an important aspect when assessing whether the journalist acted responsibly, although of course not decisive. Everyone's right to a fair trial, which includes the right to an impartial court and the right to presumption of innocence in criminal matters, must always be investigated. The European Court of Human Rights further reiterated the need for journalists to bear in mind, when commenting on ongoing criminal proceedings, that the limits of authorised information cannot apply to reports which, whether intentionally or unintentionally, could affect the right of a person to a fair trial or to undermine public confidence in the role of courts in criminal justice. The European Court of Human Rights recalls that, in the case of the assessment of the conflict between the two rights enjoying the same protection under the Convention - I am referring therefore to the right to information versus the right to a fair trial - these competing interests must be measured. Since Member States have better knowledge of the realities of their own society, national courts are better placed to assess the correct balance between the interests addressed. Therefore, in matters covered by Article 10 of the Convention, individual States have discretion in assessing the necessity and scope of intervention in freedom of expression. The European Court of Human Rights has set criteria for national authorities to measure decisive interests, i.e. the right to inform the public, the right of the public to be informed versus the authority and impartiality of the judicial authority, the effective investigation of criminal offences and the right of the accused to the presumption of innocence and the protection of his private life and the determination of the necessity of intervention in cases relating to infringement of information on criminal proceedings by a journalist. It is therefore a finding and assessment of the following facts: (a) how the journalist obtained the information in question; (b) the content of the publication; (c) the contribution of publication to a discussion in the public interest; (d) the effect of publication on criminal proceedings; (e) interference with the accused's private life. Finally, the European Court of Human Rights calls for sanctions to be met when a journalist is punished. Now, then, item V of the report, which is the final evaluation. 1) Summary finding: illegal information flows between the parties to criminal proceedings and the media cannot be reliably investigated in the light of the current setting of control mechanisms in both legal and legal generally binding standards and internal standards. 2) It does not have appropriate legislation on the information contact of law enforcement authorities with the media, in particular the registration obligation of such conduct with the possibility of reverse control and detection of possible delinquency, i.e. unauthorized leaks of information from criminal proceedings. 3) It lacks clear legislation excluding the conflict of material and local jurisdiction to investigate the criminal activity of unauthorized leaks from files between GIBS and the prosecutor's office. 4) There has been a significant and inappropriate shift in the direction of the non-publicity of the preparatory procedure and an inappropriate interpretation of the public interest in the preparatory procedure, i.e. that is the relevant caselaw in particular to Law 106 on free access to information. 5) Defines the protection of personal rights and personal data when dealing with information from criminal proceedings in relation to the media. Point 6 contains the Commission's selected resolutions. I must add that at this point I am already calling for an application for a debate, because I am not going to read the Commission's selected resolutions at this time because they will be included in the motion for a resolution for the Chamber of Deputies, which I will bring first in general, and then I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. I can also say that the final report of the commission of inquiry has been adopted unanimously, and we are really aware of the unfortunate consequence of unauthorized leaks from the investigation files. I just add that if there were any expectations that we would investigate every single particular case, I must say that we were given clear information on the case that I was talking about in the sense that they were being saved and investigated by the competent authorities. I also add that the commission didn't have to proceed to what some other committee of inquiry might have done to file criminal charges against someone. So, at the end of my speech, I would like to thank all the members of the committee of inquiry once again for their activity, for participating in the negotiations during those less than two months, for their share in the preparation of the final report, and I am reporting to the debate where I will propose the relevant resolutions, which are based on the conclusions of the committee of inquiry. Thank you for your attention for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u3	Good afternoon, honourable Members. I thank the President of the Commission for its final reports and its justification. Before I begin the debate, I note that two apologies have been made to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jaroslav Klaška from 14 to 15 a.m., and from 14 to 18 a.m., Mr Tomio Okamura apologizes. I'm opening the debate. I have an application for it, of course, by the President of the Commission, Mr Kudela, but with priority rights, Minister Pelikán, who is not here, so I will now give Mr Kudel the floor and thus become the rapporteur for this press. He's a member of the committee. There's nothing we can do. You will be watching the debate, Mr. Ambassador. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u4	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, all present, well-punished activity, good for me. The official name and assignment shall be the investigative commission of the Chamber of Deputies to investigate whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from such files and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law. [[15.00 hours]] I personally analysed this name and defined the assignment as follows: The Commission of Investigation - firstly, whether there has been an unauthorized acquisition of information from files of law enforcement authorities; second, whether there has been an unlawful treatment of the information thus obtained; third, whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law. Firstly, whether there has been an unauthorized acquisition of information from files of law enforcement authorities. We're out. For example, it is appropriate to point out as an example. a statistical survey submitted by the General Inspection of the Security Corps, which contains the number of files of the year with the issue of possible leaks of information in the Security Corps. According to the statistics presented, the issue of suspected evasion from criminal proceedings was: in 2014 - 37 cases, 3 closed; in 2015 - 31 cases, 3 closed; in 2016 - 52 cases, 13 closed. So from my point of view, although the control mechanisms are set up, leaks happen. To defend and good, it must be said that cases of suspected leaks are being investigated and compared to what has been officially published and what is still classified. Real leaks are proven and the guilty are punished accordingly. In the event that, on grounds of accusations, search orders, etc., lifts from criminal files have been somehow made public, such published information becomes an instrument of public influence and is being mediated. In these cases, there are alleged leaks, while the information has already been reported. Sometimes to dislike, sometimes to the liking of the accused or other parties to the proceedings. So the first question of whether there were leaks can be answered that there was, but no committee of inquiry had to sit on it. Secondly, whether there has been an infringement or treatment of the information thus obtained. Here you can only imagine the motives of the perpetrators. Sometimes just curiosity, sometimes obvious interest. However, the Commission did not have the opportunity to fully assess this. Everyone can think of the motives and causes in which they led. There is therefore no clear answer to this question. Thirdly, whether the information thus obtained has been used to influence political competition or to destabilise the democratic rule of law. We have all witnessed a gradual and sneaking link between business and the media and politics. One headline in the MF Newspaper Perhaps today will speak for everything. Please note, I am not sure here by a precise quote, but it was a secret report on the state of cyber security. Thumb Subtitle in MD Today: Secret message on cyber security status. Either the message is classified and has nothing to do in the paper, or the newspapers are bluffing to make them interesting. In this matter, I have personally asked the Cyber Security Authority to address this report in the paper. The answer to this question cannot be determined after the committee's meeting, but everyone can make their own judgment. In any case, it is also a possible incentive for law enforcement authorities to check whether those who represent the interest of the state and act in the interest of the state, may act in the interest of the state, but they are happy, whether purposefully or unconsciously, to share information with the media or other interest groups sometimes not in public, sometimes secret. Finally, I believe that although the Commission has not fully answered the House of defined questions, its actions have made sense and its conclusions and recommendations to the Government should contribute to improving the situation. One of the conclusions of the Commission is the recommendation to synchronise the rights of free access to information and the rights to access files with the protection of information that need to be protected in the interests of a proper investigation. I have signed the conclusions of the commission and I recommend that the House accept the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another enrollment is Mr. Plíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In my opening speech on the final report, I have announced that I will now read and, in a detailed debate, apply to the motion for a resolution that is in the system and has been sent to Members. So my proposal is that the Chamber of Deputies I. He takes note of the final report of the investigation committee. [[I'm not gonna read the full title to save time.]] II. Calls on the Government to consider submitting 1. amendments to Act No. 101/2000 Sb., on the protection of personal data, as amended, so that all information from criminal proceedings, except for publicly heard facts at the main trial or public meeting of the court, in particular any recording of wiretapping, recording of the operation of telecommunications equipment, spatial monitoring or monitoring of persons and things or protocols on personal searches, house searches and inspections of other premises is personal data enjoying protection under this Act; 2. So it's all in point II. I'm not gonna read that phrase again, that is. Calls on the Government to consider submitting - so 2. it is: amendments to Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, as amended, so as not to break the principle of non-publicity of preparatory criminal proceedings; 3. amendments to Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on Criminal Procedure, i.e. Criminal Code, as amended, by specifying the definition of public interest in obtaining and publishing information from criminal proceedings; 4. We are still in point II: Amendment to Act No.40/2009 Coll., the Criminal Code, by extending the provisions governing the factual nature of the offence of abuse of the authority of the official person so that the harmful effect of the conduct of an official person in the form of an unauthorized leak of information from criminal proceedings as a qualified factual nature of the offence will be newly defined; 5. a draft law which will regulate private security activities by imposing an explicit ban on the collection of information within the framework of the activities of private detectives from sources of law enforcement authorities, including administrative apparatus, other staff and persons on law enforcement authorities actively cooperating; 6. 341/2011 Coll., on the General Inspection of Security Forces, and Act No. 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, in order to clearly define the factual and local jurisdiction of these law enforcement authorities in the investigation and investigation of detected unauthorized leaks of information from criminal proceedings; [[15.10 hours]] 7. Amendments to Law No 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, by setting up a specialized body within the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, with the highest possible degree of independence from the public prosecutor's system, in whose competence it will be - and now watch out, there will be only a small wording against the text in the Houses of the Document, and on the basis of comments from Members - in whose competence the conduct of preparatory criminal proceedings for criminal offences committed by prosecutors will be carried out, namely the filing of a public action in criminal proceedings against the prosecutor. Point III. Resolution: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to consider the submission of measures aimed at imposing an explicit obligation on each institution active in criminal proceedings providing information on its activities to the public through the public media to record any contact with the relevant representative of the public media, to state the content and reason for communication and to file such an alert. Point IV. Resolution: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to consider a more detailed adjustment of the conditions for providing evidence obtained in criminal proceedings for other purposes, at a time when the criminal proceedings are at a stage - and now a small wording change - the word "verification" will be released and there will be the rest of the sentence when the criminal proceedings are at the stage of the preparatory procedure. [[e.g. civil court proceedings, administrative proceedings, etc.]] So much motion for a resolution with two wording amendments, and I will then sign up for it in a detailed debate where I will also propose a way of voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u7	Yes, thank you. I ask who else is reporting to the general debate. Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear two members of the government, present, fellow Members, Members and Members, I have read with interest both the final evaluation and the selected Commission resolutions, which, in essence, Mr Martin Plíšek, President of the Commission of Investigation, quoted now and the whole final report. I was very pleased that the Chamber of Deputies concluded that there was a need to start doing something about leaking information from the investigation files. It was this imaginary last drop into that cup of patience that probably ran out of leaks by now. During the entire term of office of this Chamber of Deputies, we have encountered leaks from the investigation files, and we can say that many of them have been very serious cases that have affected or could have affected the situation in the Czech Republic, and it is a legitimate concern for us Members to prevent this, or at least take all possible measures to prevent this. When this committee of inquiry was established, we acted within the parliamentary club who would participate in this committee for us. And since I was a member of the four committees of inquiry set up by the Chamber of Deputies during this term of office, I was not interested in this, especially in the knowledge of the information leaks from the investigation files. I have to say, I considered it a waste of time, basically, because I was able to predict the conclusions of the investigation committee in advance. And this is stated in the final assessment in point one, that "according to the current setting of control mechanisms, both from the point of view of legal and regulatory generally binding standards and from the point of view of internal standards, illegal information flows between the parties to criminal proceedings and the media cannot be reliably investigated'. It is widely known information, and I think that I have already said several times here at the speaker's desk where the problem is and that we are never able to ensure that leaks from the investigation files, but sometimes even classified information, are avoided in this state of our right. Perhaps you, sitting here in the fourth and other term, could remember how with great glory you made all the changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure that just wanted this to happen, because from my point of view, I think that you do - and now I do not think you personally, physically, to individual Members and to Members that you like it as political entities. I remember the previous committee of inquiry, which was set up for the organizational change of two departments with the whole republic when it arrived in the Chamber of Deputies called. Šlachtův's report. All my colleagues were eager to get acquainted with this report so that they would know what it contained. We put ourselves on a certain list when we met, the date and hour we read the material. I didn't get to know the material until the day before the commission of inquiry started, because it was clear to me that whoever organized the leaks and who was interested in leaking information needed to expand the circle of people who were among the possible suspects who were leaking such information. And since our commission had seven members, this was extended by seven Members of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the secretary and other people who helped us on the committee of inquiry, i.e. plus another ten or twelve people. I'll tell you a little bit from history, to you who don't know criminal law. When there was procedural autonomy of the investigator, the criminal police gave the investigator information about who might have been bugged. The police investigator processed the request himself, introduced it into a classified diary, which he also kept himself, and forwarded the information to the prosecutor either with a code name or otherwise obscured by the person's true identity, if necessary. The prosecutor thus wrote a wiretap application on the initiative, handed it over to the court, and was in court again a judge, possibly. his reporter, who jointly issued such an order. There were five or maybe six people who knew the information about the person who was being bugged. Today, if you want to do such an act, only the Police of the Czech Republic knows it at least ten, if not fifteen to twenty persons. It's the same with the D.A., and it's the same with the court. Then how do you expect to keep information about the operational resources deployed secret in the Czech boiler, where everything is said? I've always said that if someone is doing some sort of activity and it's for example. Investigator of the Police of the Czech Republic, if something like this has been done, or a prosecutor or a judge, should have the confidence that we can trust him that he will not abuse his authority as an official person, and if he does, he should be punished as severely as possible. Today, we know that leaks occur, that they are being abused, but I have never noticed a particular person's responsibility for their actions. And that is why leaks occur, why journalists among policemen, defense attorneys, prosecutors, but maybe even judges, or at least court employees, have a certain range of people who are willing to provide such information for a favor. It's a problem we can name very well. But without wanting to take effective action here, it cannot be resolved. [[15.20 hours]] I am therefore glad that the commission of inquiry has been established, that it has worked and that it has reached some conclusions that, colleagues and colleagues, you can read in the final evaluation. For me, the first communication reached by the Commission that leaks occur and we are unable to face them reliably is the most important. So it will be up to us to try to find such a solution, or to you, who will be here in the next term to avoid this. If I take any further information that is given here, there is an inappropriate interpretation of the public interest in the preparatory procedure and where this public interest is to exceed the non-publicity of the criminal preparatory procedure. If we take the criminal proceedings as a whole, it has certain stages, and the preparatory proceedings of the criminal proceedings are legally not public. This is what Martin Plíšek was talking about. At that time, the information on the criminal proceedings, the person against whom the criminal proceedings are conducted, does not matter whether we call her a suspect or already accused or accused, do not communicate and is to honor the presumption of innocence, including the protection of other persons associated with the criminal proceedings. However, the interpretation of the caselaw was that in certain cases this must be broken down and that there is a so-called public interest and that the public - and Martin Plíšek, the chairman of the commission of inquiry, spoke of this, the difference between public interest and private interest. Public interest sometimes says that the public has the right to be informed that the mayor of the community, the MP, the senator, a member of the government or someone else, a publicly known person, an actor is being prosecuted. I'm asking why the public interest is supposed to be in this and it's not supposed to be public... or virtually. The public interest is broken down in this, when it should be broken completely somewhere else. And when I look at, for example, the internal act of the proceedings, which is a binding directive of Police President No. On 24 April 2017, which is called on to provide information to the public through the media, we will learn in Article five, which is a refusal to provide information that the workers referred to in Article two, that is to say by printing and so forth, refuse to provide information if the provision of information could be detrimental to the rights of the person for whom the information is provided, in particular the right to preserve human dignity, or to tamper with private and personal life. Well, that's the information we shouldn't be providing, because if I give information about any of you that he is being investigated, for example, from a crime where the victim was a teenage girl or a teenage boy somewhere in a children's camp, or at a time when the MP wasn't yet a Member and worked far before his mandate, it certainly hurts him. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And I don't know why information of that nature is to be communicated in the public interest. But on the other hand, we will learn that when providing information about persons...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u9	Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the contrary, we will learn from this internal act that the provision of information on persons does not imply their racial affiliation or other facts capable of inducing racial intolerance or negative emotions against foreigners, national, ethnic or other minorities. We can only communicate this information if it is important, necessary for the purpose of criminal proceedings or for the purpose of the investigation. So if a man in a certain town, XYZ, or another five first names, commits a sexual crime, the police will only inform us that a man between the ages of 18 and 30 has done so, and that's it. Maybe we can get them to say it was a stranger. We can't know it's a person who has a certain ethnicity. We cannot know that this is, for example, a person who has entered the Federal Republic of Germany, France or another Western State in the context of the migration wave and who is travelling within the Schengen area within the framework of the documents allocated to him. We do not have the right to do so, because it is not a public interest and exceeds the private interest in the protection of personal data of this person. But it's public interest to know that the mayor, that the MP, that the actor, that the minister of the government is suspected of committing a crime or anything else, and that if we can't say it publicly, maybe through the police, we'll give this information to all the media, and it'll be able to use it properly. I have to say that there was a rule in the police once, and I also met him, that if I can't achieve the purpose of criminal proceedings by means of investigation and investigation, I'll provide that information to the media, and at least I'll blow this guy up in the mud and degenerate him. It's a strange form, but unfortunately, such forms happen. I have my doubts about the proposed measures put forward by the Commission of inquiry. I will certainly agree with the motion for a resolution that would tighten the substance of the offence of abuse of the authority of an official and give a qualified deed to the extent that the official person commits abuse of the power of disclosure of the information he has learned in connection with the exercise of his profession and thus creates a harmful consequence. I'm sure it's a qualified deed, and I think it deserves not only our contempt. I would have dismissed such an official person without mercy, without entitlement to anything, not that I would only prosecute him and waited to see if he could make an application for termination of service or employment in case he was an outsider or a prosecutor or someone else. I'd just fire him without entitlement to anything. Because only without the harsh sanctions of such people who are to stand on the side of justice and justice, but for anything, and I will not accuse anyone here, for anything they stand on the edge of the law or on the other hand, we cannot appreciate. And I think that we should condemn such people not only morally, but also criminally, with all the consequences associated with them. Then there are interesting resolutions, such as where information is not published during criminal proceedings. But that's where we come up with the process, and we need to distinguish precisely between the different stages, and in the pre-trial procedure, which is already unpublic today, we need to keep an eye on that. But in the case of court proceedings, we have precise boundaries that we do not disclose - for example, proceedings against, or where we would cause victims or, if necessary, youthful disclosures. But even there I can imagine breaking this because if a person under the age of 15 is the perpetrator, excuse me, 18 years old, but even 15 years old, and he commits a particularly serious crime or even crimes, so I think that public interest should also be on the public's information as to what kind of person he is in society. So in this case, we're still protecting him, but I'd like to give the information, because I think the public interest should be to know who my neighbor is and what's threatening me or my neighborhood. [[15.30 hours]] There is an interesting idea here when the commission recommends that the bill be tabled or amended by the law, establishing a special within the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, so that with a higher degree of independence from the public prosecutor's system, in whose competence - and now I must, and I would ask the President of the Commission to check it out, because he made that change in comparison to the material - to conduct the preliminary proceedings of the criminal. Is that so, Mr President, through Mr President? It says here: In whose competence there will be investigations and prosecutions of crimes committed by prosecutors. It doesn't really matter. If a special is to be created, we would actually get to the same stage to prosecute prosecutors' crimes alone, and we are at the same stage as the General Inspection of Security Corps, when GIBS is prosecuting its own members of GIBS, and I'm just quite surprised that it doesn't, because I know at least x members of the General Inspection of Security Corps, who should already be behind lockup and not having a colonel on their shoulders, but unfortunately that's the situation in the Czech Republic and in the Security Corps. You know, I don't believe that the state's attorney's office will be able to investigate, investigate and prosecute the state's attorney, because, and I say that repeatedly, the investigation is a craft like any other, and even if anyone thinks that anyone who has a university education can investigate, I don't think so, because the error that occurred after the year 90 - and now I don't know exactly - five, when the demands for a PCR investigator dropped out of college education in the legal, securityly legal or economic direction and was replaced by a mere formula for higher education is simply inadequate. If someone is graduating from Janáček University or the Academy of Performing Arts, then let them do the artist; If someone is studying theology faculty, then let someone be a clergyman; if someone is a economist, they should be an economist, but even the police are interested in such people, because especially in economic cases it is important, but if someone is a educator, for example, I don't know what gives him the inner conviction that he will be a good investigator, that he, as a college student, can properly investigate, investigate and prosecute persons suspected or accused of committing a crime. I mentioned some universities on purpose because they were universities that were at the time of my work on anti-corruption police, the Department of Corruption and the protection of the interests of the European Union education of some of my colleagues. There were very few people who had a higher education in the legal or security legal direction, and you would count them on the fingers of one hand. Then we can't be surprised at the state of some of the cases that are. So we are currently reaping products of the work of our predecessors, Members four or five parliamentary periods ago, who have concluded that anyone can investigate. We can say that they have certainly made less messy than if they had said that anyone who has a university degree could be a doctor because I am afraid to go to a doctor like this sometimes and I call some doctors a different degree with a medical focus than MUDr., but if it were enough to perform the duties or profession of a doctor of any university education, it would be even worse. The same thing I think would be bad for teachers, and I don't want to mention other professional and other professions. Even the legal guild clearly holds that being in the Bar, judge, prosecutor or notary can only be the citizen of the Czech Republic, and now there are those conditions which he has graduated from the Faculty of Law, and even exactly four law faculties in the Czech Republic are listed. Even if we already have private ones, even though these chambers continue to resist receiving quick-leavers or speedes, or let's call them what we want from others in the quotation marks of legal schools. So much for why I think the prosecutors - and my personal life experience is leading me to do this when I was present at the time when some actions were wanted to be done by the investigator himself, even by the judge, and the mistakes that are made in some criminal proceedings can never be corrected. In my case, if a prosecutor or a judge did such an act, he always took an experienced investigator to his hand and told him what to do. Unfortunately, today we have reached such a stage where we are hearing over and over again that the police authority and police are basically nothing, because the guarantor and master of criminal proceedings is the prosecutor, the police authority is basically a small prosecutor's maid, but if there is a problem, the prosecutor doesn't know about it, and he says: it is the police authority, the police officer, because - and there are thousands of reasons why. If it is mentioned here that to draw up an official record or any other record of contact between an institution active in criminal proceedings and a journalist. I don't know what information the committee of inquiry was based on, but I have to say that at a time when I was working on the service of criminal police and investigations, whether on the violence section of the Regional Directorate or general crime, or even on the anti-corruption police, I would never have allowed myself to have an interview or contact with one of the journalists in order not to make a record of it, a service record that I would have filed in the auxiliary materials of the file, especially to protect myself. If that's the case, I don't know. I was talking about it with some of my former colleagues, and they told me that nothing has changed about this and that they continue to base such a record on the file, and I think that's a good thing. If the prosecutors do or do not do so, I do not know, I do not want to speak for them and I will not, and I prefer not to mention the judges. So a good proposal, we can even put it into the law, but I think that the internal act of management would solve it without any problems if something like this is no longer in the internal act, because in the few years that I am off active duty, internal acts of management are changing quickly, just as I was actually very surprised by not providing information, when a citizen must not know who is a suspect or who has committed a crime against a particular person. And the other things that are mentioned here, I think that the Commission has done some good work in that summer time and very limited time, and I think that it certainly belongs to individual members for thanking them, as the President of the Commission said. I wasn't on the committee, but I can see from the outputs that you've done a great job. Now it will only be up to the new Members who will emerge from the autumn elections whether they will return to this material, which will be approved in some form. [[15.40 hours]] It will also be up to the Minister of Justice, or the new government, if he wants to solve this problem, or if every other election, that is, basically every year, they will be given to us, to the public in that public interest, information that may come from - and I say deliberately maybe, because it wasn't even possible for the committee to find out whether it was legal wiretaps, or whether it was just private recording to one or the other by anyone, or whether someone would want to do something about it in the future. You know, eight or ten years ago, maybe 15 years ago, I couldn't imagine the mayor of the village I live in, or any other, or politician at another level could be... or do his job, his office, and still be prosecuted. After I conducted an investigation by the President of the Supreme Audit Office, who, even after announcing the allegations of several cases and the conduct of several proceedings, remained in his office and waited for a final judgment to have to end in his office, and I know what problems it has been to me when I have conducted proceedings against a particular person and asked for information and he has also provided it to me against himself, virtually. He didn't give me what I asked for, so I became convinced that the interest of the company in having the persons criminally clean is somewhere else. And this is confirmed in essence by the case of one of the captains who was accused of last year's autumn elections, several years before, precisely for cases connected with the ROP or activity. Basically, he ran, was re-elected, re-elected as the governor, and continues to carry out the duties of the governor. Perhaps we will see a time when the Czech Republic will historically have its first criminally prosecuted prime minister, perhaps even the President of the Republic, maybe we will return to the so-called. The pre-November history that we will joke about saying: who has not been prosecuted or in prison can not be a good president, prime minister or perform another public office. When I remembered -- but no, I'm not gonna say it. He's dead. It doesn't suit. So I guess that's the time. Unfortunately, the state of the police, the state's attorney is what he is. You, the great political parties that have been here for a long time and you have your influence on the security forces and others, we know you have your people inside, those people can work for you, they can do the job. And it's nice, on the other hand, that you can take care of them when they terminate their active service, that they may not end up at the employment office or as advisors or say something less qualified, but that you give them good seats on your candidates in the places that your former colleagues lead. It's nice of you to take care of these people, but it's to the detriment of the security forces. And what the citizens of the Czech Republic think about it, maybe ask them themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u11	Good afternoon and I thank Mr Ondráček. With a factual remark, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u12	Thank you for the floor. I won't keep you long. I'll follow up on what the previous speaker said. Otherwise, a small comment on Mrs Černochová's question about what Minister Zaorálek, as a poet, wanted to say. I think what he means is that we're gonna be smaller, even smaller, when we're the smallest in the whole world. It's just about Israel. As for what is being discussed here today, it is unclear to me how it is possible that Mr Kroupa is moving around the Republic and he has information that is evidently coming from a living case, checking them out, holding interviews, television shows, and perhaps the committee of inquiry did not do much about it. I just want to point out that the media is playing a similar role today as we politicians. It's called. The third power and, of course, sometimes have a very positive role, and sometimes they can also seriously endanger the security of the state. So just to make us realize it. To this day, we have not been able, as the Chamber of Deputies, to force the Security Intelligence Service and the Ministry of the Interior to investigate who is hiding behind the Šuman Group, who is illegally monitoring and recordings of the Deputy Prime Minister and a member of the Security Council of the State, which I consider to be absolutely insane in security, how the security of the Czech Republic is being dealt with here. And as for the leak, the reorganization of the police is about leaking information, because the reorganization of the police was about someone dissatisfied with the fact that the ÚOOZ investigators weren't giving information to their superiors. That's the whole problem. And now we have a reorganization at the end, and everyone will be happy. The ones sitting there in the office places. Just for illustration. A certain gentleman is making a phone call to a certain SIM card purchased in the Federal Republic of Germany by a certain person on a phone that has not been found to this day, and the phone comes from an officer's environment or police officer's office. [[Time warning]] And the gentleman says, tomorrow -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u13	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I have to reorganize you, too, and send you to your place and let you take the floor, and the next will be Mr. Mr. Lukáš Pleticha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u14	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, my colleagues, I feel obliged to come before you here as the one who actually initiated the creation of this commission with the proposal, and I would like to thank you one last time for allowing the creation and work of this committee, both by creating and subsequently electing the President. I would very much like to respond to my previous speakers, as well as to those questions I have received from journalists, from various citizens about the skepticism of what the committee was for. It's true that the time subsidy we had to do was enormously short. It was excessive to expect us to convict someone from this commission, put him on trial or file criminal charges against him. It is not the purpose of this commission of inquiry, or the commission of inquiry at all, as envisaged by the Rules of Procedure of this House, to substitute the work of law enforcement authorities, but to respond to various social problems, various specific cases or general problems, and then to propose what to do next. That's what happened in the case of wiretaps or wiretaps and leaks. Because we have quite soon met that not every leak is perceived by law enforcement authorities as serious when I would use a certain parable from a medical environment as a health-threatening condition and, in fact, these authorities only care if something was leaked by the time the charges were reported to a particular person until the investigation began, and then they no longer see it as such a problem. I think that this House is very well united in that it is simply a problem when people, various people suspected, their family members, and the suspects in the beginning, so-called. Dirty suspects, all of a sudden, even in those courts, they're walking away. However, several years will pass, and the deformations that have been exposed, that is simply considerable. So our goal in the committee was to investigate this disorder, I wouldn't be afraid to call it actually the leaks as a certain infection of society, and to suggest a solution. Designing a solution, it's kind of like designing a vaccine. Unfortunately, we are at the very end of the parliamentary term, and therefore we do not have the opportunity to further address this problem in this composition, and so we end up at a stage where our committee proposed a recipe, certain ingredients that, if adjusted, could eventually bring a cure for this disorder and reduce this infection. Based on these findings, we also propose some therapy, which consists in adjusting individual issues in the law. It is not in our power to propose precisely amendments, amendments to the laws. [[15.50 hours]] I would also like to point out that when we explore these areas, we will come to very sensitive areas, which will certainly require the creation of working colleagues of experts, a wider discussion across the House, because those sensitive areas will touch e.g. State's Attorney's office controls by some authority. We're suggesting a certain variant, but it's possible that then from some colloquium, some working group will come up with a better proposal and it will be good. We are dealing with a very sensitive area of press freedom, freedom of information, protection of personal data, evidence in civil and criminal proceedings, and we are also dealing with fundamental human rights and personal rights. In these areas, the laboratory will have to be very careful, considering the degree of loadability of individual measures, so that the baby does not spill with the bathtub in the future. Personally, I think it is probably pointless to continue with some very long discussion of this report today. The report is in front of you, the proposals for solutions, and I would suggest whether we could proceed to the voting phase, accept this report or not, because the main part will still be up to the Members who will meet in this area after the October elections. So, ladies and gentlemen, once again, thank you very much for your support from this place for allowing this commission to be formed, for the work, and I will ask for your support in the form of approval of our final report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u15	I thank Mr Pletich. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u16	Hello. Mr President, government, colleagues, colleagues, I have one short remark. I'll leave aside the fact that I didn't know whether or not there were authentic recordings that actually triggered the commission, although I believe that it was possible to find out, but I will leave the recommendations aside, because I think that this needs to be assessed in a qualified manner. What questioned me a little bit about supporting this resolution is that, among the cases relied on by the Commission, as examples of leaks, e-mails from stolen e-mails from the Office of the Government are listed. And the question I'm asking myself is whether hacked e-mails are supposed to be the starting point for the parliamentary commission's work. I see that question as ethical to some extent. Perhaps it wouldn't hurt if the word ethical or ethics of work appeared among the points proposed there, because perhaps we would need less legislative or executive restrictions if we emphasized the ethical side of the matter. But my question is whether - I think it is Mr Přikryl's communication, and since my emails have also appeared in the package of stolen e-mails, I do not know how far it has been investigated, so I find it hard to accept for me to support a resolution based on information from criminal activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u17	Thank you. The plaintiff. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u18	Thank you. I will respond to Mr Gabal. The message - I do not suggest that we approve of it, but that we acknowledge it. First of all. And secondly, my colleague, Gabal, may be completely calm. We didn't really deal with the content of hacked e-mails, it was a proposal from one of the members of the committee to discuss whether there was any leak in the case of OKD. By the way, both the Prime Minister and Mr Přikryl spoke before the committee, and we met with their comments, and we did not actually take any steps in this. This is stated in the report as an explanation of what we talked about, but we certainly didn't go into details with any e-mails. I'm just pointing out that the report is being taken into account, not that it's being approved. Of course, we were dealing with the other cases that are described there, but for the sake of correctness, I add that if any member of the committee suggested that he wanted to deal with a particular case, we complied with it, we did not prevent it. Well, it's just for refills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u19	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I do not see any proposals that we should vote on. Is that so, please, Mr. plaintiff? Not until the Commission's final report. We will therefore proceed to a similar debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I hereby subscribe to the motion for a resolution that I have read, with the fact that, during the course of the procedure, some of you have had some comments, and because I really want us to vote on this resolution in some way consensually, I will allow myself to make a small adjustment in paragraph II of resolution number 7. This means: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to consider submitting - II, paragraph 7 - and now I would read it correctly, as it has been formulated: "the amendments to Act 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, so that a specialized body will be set up within the Supreme Prosecutor's Office with the highest possible degree of independence from the public prosecutor's system, whose competence will be to carry out preparatory criminal proceedings for crimes committed by prosecutors and prosecutions in criminal proceedings conducted against the prosecutor." So it's just a little adjustment to point 7. Otherwise, with this amendment, I subscribe to the text that I have read in the general debate. It is then, of course, in the Chamber of Deputies, whether it wants to vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole or on individual parts, I leave this, of course, to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u21	Thank you. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If no one reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude the detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. There's no interest in final words. We will vote on the motion for a resolution. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby, sign you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. It has been proposed to me that we can vote on a resolution en bloc, including the amendments to paragraph 7, as proposed by the President of the Commission of Investigation, or we can vote on individual points. Does anyone have any reservations about voting on the resolution as a whole? So there's a proposal on a case-by-case basis, so we're going to vote on a case-by-case basis. I ask the President of the Commission to always read the individual item and then vote on it. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u22	So, first of all, we would vote on the resolution that the Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Final Report of the Chamber of Deputies investigating whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from these files, and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law. So resolution I.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u23	I am opening the vote on this resolution. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 115 vote, 125 Members are registered, for 122, against 1. The motion for a resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u24	Thank you. We would also vote on resolution II, paragraph 1, which would be: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to consider submitting - and now that point 1 - the amendment to Act No. 101/2000 Coll., on the protection of personal data as amended, so that all information from criminal proceedings, except for publicly heard facts during the main trial or non-public session of the Court, in particular any recording of wiretapping, recording of the operation of telecommunications equipment, spatial wiretapping or monitoring of persons and things or protocols on personal searches, house searches and inspections of other premises, is personal data enjoying protection under this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u25	Initiating vote on this proposal... Sorry. [[Mr. Marek Benda is coming to the speaker's desk.]] prosit, Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u26	I apologize very much to the President, but he said the word 'public' to the court. I suggest you don't read it, or it needs to be read exactly. We all have it in front of us, in my opinion, except for the changes that have been made, it is not to be said, because the word "public" has now been said a little unhappy. And it's in a public courtroom.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u27	So I will not let the President read it all over again, but the President will probably confirm that he meant, as it is written in the resolution, a public session of the court.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u28	Yes, I'm sorry, I'm not aware of that, and it's there, of course, in a public courtroom. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u29	I declare this last vote misguided and we will vote again on point II, part one: the Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to consider the submission - and item one. I'm initiating a vote on him. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 117, 129 Members are registered, for 122, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u30	Point 2 - and I will read it for sure, because in order to avoid any debate about it - amendments to Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on free access to information as amended, so as not to break the principle of non-publicity of preparatory criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u31	I am opening the vote on this resolution II, paragraph 2. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 118, registered 130 Members, for 118, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u32	We would also vote on resolution number 3, amendment to Act No. 141/1961 Coll., on criminal proceedings, as amended, by specifying the definition of public interest in obtaining and publishing information from criminal proceedings. [[Criminal Code]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u33	I am opening the vote on this resolution II, point 3. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 119 vote, 131 Members and Members are registered, for 126, against none. This motion for a resolution has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u34	Point 4: Amendment to Act No.40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code, by extending the provisions governing the factual nature of the offence of misuse of the authority of an official person so that the harmful consequence of the act of an official person in the form of unauthorised disclosure of information from criminal proceedings as a qualified factual nature of the offence will be newly defined.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u35	Initiating vote on this proposal under number 4. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the 120 vote, 132 Members and Members registered, for 127, against none. This motion for a resolution has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u36	Point 5 of the draft law, which will regulate private security activities by imposing an explicit ban on the collection of information within the framework of the activities of private detectives from sources of law enforcement authorities, including administrative apparatus, other staff and persons with law enforcement authorities actively cooperating.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u37	I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 121, 132 Members are registered, for 82, against 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u38	Sixth: amendments to Act No. 341/2011 Coll., on the General Inspection of Security Forces, and Act No. 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, so as to clearly define the factual and local jurisdiction of these law enforcement authorities in the investigation and investigation of detected unauthorized leaks of information from criminal proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u39	I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 122, 132 Members are registered, for 122, against none. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u40	Point 7: Amendment to Act No. 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, by setting up a specialized body within the Supreme Prosecutor's Office with the highest possible degree of independence from the public prosecutor's system, in which the conduct of preparatory criminal proceedings for criminal offences committed by prosecutors and prosecutions in criminal proceedings conducted against the prosecutor will be a responsibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u41	Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 123, 132 Members and Members, for 99 against 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u42	Point III: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to consider the submission of measures aimed at the establishment of an explicit obligation on each law enforcement authority providing information on its activities to the public through the public media to record any contact with the relevant representative of the public media, to state the content and reason for communication and to file such an alert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u43	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 124 vote, 132 Members and Members registered, for 122, against none. This proposal has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u44	Finally, the last motion for a resolution, paragraph IV: The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government to consider a more detailed adjustment of the conditions for providing evidence obtained in criminal proceedings for other purposes, at a time when the criminal proceedings are at the stage of the preparatory procedure. [[e.g. civil proceedings, administrative procedures and other]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u45	I am opening the vote on the last motion for a resolution on this point. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 125, 132 Members and Members registered, for 127, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I thank the President of the Commission and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u46	And I thank you for the vote, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-001-089.u47	Before we go to the next point, I'll read the note. President Stanjura apologizes for personal reasons until the end of the day, Mr Kořenek apologizes from 15 to 17 for reasons of work, Mr Ladislav Okleštěk apologizes all day today for reasons of work, Mr Věra Kovářová apologizes all day for personal reasons, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologises from 15 to 17 hours for reasons of work, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologises from 15.15 to 17.15 for reasons of work, Mr Fiala apologises for the rest of the day for reasons of work, Mr Karel Fiedler apologises all day for reasons of work, Mr Marian Jurečka apologises for today's meeting for reasons of work, Minister Miloslav Ludvík apologises for working reasons, and Minister Pelikán apologises from 1445 to 16.30 for reasons of work. Those were the note cards, and we're going to move on to the next points in our negotiations, which is
