ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u1	173. Members of Válková Váleková, Jitka Chalánková, Pavla Golasowská, Miloslava Rutová, Jana Hnyková, Hana Aulická Jírovcová and Radka Maxová's proposal to issue a law amending certain laws in relation to the issue of child placement in school establishments, Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, and other related laws, and Act No. 109/2002 Coll., on the performance of institutional education or protective education in educational institutions and on preventive education in educational establishments and on the amendment of other laws /house printing 977/ - first reading I note that the Government has not delivered an opinion on this House's press. I see that this proposal will be presented for a group of Members, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. I will ask Mrs Alena Nohavová to take her place at the rapporteur's table because she is the rapporteur for first reading. Now, then, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, once the House has calmed down. Calm down, please! Thank you. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly introduce you to this House Press No. 977. It is submitted by a group of Members, to be precise by the Members, and concerns the issue of a law amending certain laws in relation to the issue of child placement in school establishments, Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, and other related laws, and Act No. 109/2002 Coll., on the exercise of institutional education or protective education in educational establishments and on preventive education in educational establishments and on the amendment of other laws. This law is relatively short, because this proposal contains two parts. The first part concerns the amendment of the Civil Code, namely Section 971. Paragraph 971 (4) reads: If constitutional education is to be carried out in a health institution or in a social service facility, the court in a decision ordering constitutional education shall indicate where the child is to be placed. The placement and transfer of children in the network of educational establishments shall be governed by a special law. Part two concerns the amendment of the Act on the exercise of constitutional education and here is Section 5, which you have all at your disposal. I would like to explain, as a justification, that after two years of the operation of the civil change - or the new Civil Code - the effects of the change in the placement of children in the network of school facilities have been unfortunate in practice. There is an immense lack of stay in so-called. diagnostic institutes. I would like to submit that, above all, parental rights are always a court order. Constitutional education regulations and the termination of institutional education are always a decision of the court. However, stay in diagnostic facilities is extremely important both for placing the child in a specific facility and also for the diagnosis of these children and helping these children. The system is currently blocked. Kids who need diagnostics won't get diagnostics. On the other hand, children in diagnostic institutions remain overdue and are not moved to the necessary facilities due to the overcrowded capacity of the judiciary. For example, long - term foster parents who take children into long - term foster care and have no knowledge of the child they receive are complaining about the need for diagnostics. I would like to point out that there are more steps, but there is no way that this is about harming children's rights, or vice versa. This proposal is perfectly in line with the child's best interest and meets the child's best interest. It is also in accordance with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. I think that's pretty much it. I would also like to say that for small children or where a stay in a diagnostic institute would not bring the necessary benefit, there is also a situation described in this draft law and a procedure for how we would proceed so that children who do not need to stay in this diagnostic facility may be able directly to the constitutional facility to be designated. So I repeat, in no way does it mean that children are denied legal protection. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u3	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Alena Nohavová to present her intelligence report. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u4	Thank you for the floor. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for the proposal is to return to the relationship that was in force until the end of 2013, i.e. when diagnostic constitutions decided to place the child in a specific school facility. The real reason is the need to provide professional diagnostics of the child in some cases and to place it in a device that meets its needs. Taking into account the interest of the child in the present law is too vaguely formulated an obligation for the courts to seek the need to carry out professional diagnostics. In practice, the assessment of serious behavioral disorders may depend, and often depends, only on an unprofessional lay estimate of workers of institutions of socio-legal protection of children or a court. Courts specializing within one category of facilities such as a children's home, a children's home with a school or an educational institution are unable to perceive it. The reason is also overload and slow decision-making of courts not only about the location but also about the relocation of children. Because of the overload of the courts, children who are placed in a diagnostic institute by the court stay disproportionately long. The courts are not obliged to take into account the capacity or the fullness of the equipment and some therefore do not do so. The device is not a party to the proceedings, has no official access to information on how many children it will have to accept and when. If constitutional education is to be carried out in a health facility or social services facilities, it is proposed to maintain the existing regime, as in such cases there is no equivalent to a diagnostic institute as a professional facility which could decide on the location or transfer of children to the most appropriate facility. So there's not even the Court of Justice to be overwhelmed. The Government has not delivered any opinion on this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u5	Thank you, Mrs Nohavová, for her intelligence report. Before I open the debate, I state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Pavel Havíř from 10.30 pm for work reasons, Mrs Zelienková for today and tomorrow for health reasons. We are continuing the debate that I am opening, and Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová reports first. Madame Members, I will wait for the Chamber to be more calm so that your colleagues will let you speak. Talk about other topics, even with ministers, move to the foyer. Thank you. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say that my previous speaker has already said the most important part about this amendment. I would just add that current practice is really not in the best interest of the child. The courts are very slow and the child often waits too long or is placed in a constitutional facility where the right help cannot be provided. The proposed modification returns the system before the 2013 amendment of the Civil Code, where immediate intervention was provided for the child and the child was immediately worked according to its diagnosed needs. I just have to point out that a positive position in the discussion of the Civil Code on this amendment, which is now the amendment, was given by the Ministry of Justice itself and by the Ministry of Education, as well as by the representatives of the Supreme Court itself, and actually now support the amendment. So I would really like her to be released at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u7	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová. We are now continuing the debate with the speech of the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u8	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I will be very brief. I will just confirm that we, as the Justice Department, really support this proposal. I have to say, the courts are paying particular attention to this issue, trying to deal with it as quickly as they can, but it is simply not appropriate, it is too cumbersome, the judge is not an expert on these issues and he cannot be an expert on these issues. He is then reliant on taking expert opinions, and he makes lay decisions about what the experts tell him, and that extends things. So we believe that returning to a state that was before the new Civil Code would be beneficial for the children involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u9	I thank the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán for his performance. We are continuing the debate. Mr. Chairman of the Social Democracy Club Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I also often propose changes to the agenda. But I always do it to suggest a change that affects the next day or the next day. What happened here is not entirely correct from my point of view. Here, a few tens of minutes ago, a change was proposed, and now we're discussing a point that many people didn't know was going to be discussed, others knew. You know, the House has already dealt with this issue in the past when we discussed the amendment by Professor Válková at the time. That's when the House refused. We have an opinion on this, a fundamental disagreement between Secretary Marksová. I think it would be good for her and the others who have something to say about it to do so. That is why, at the moment, I am putting forward a procedural proposal to interrupt the discussion of this point in the presence of Secretary Marksová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-003-173.u11	Okay. It is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote without debate. I'll check you out first. I beg you for your new registration. Log in with your ID cards. And before I vote on the procedural proposal, before the number of applications is settled, I have a chance to read another apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, apologizing to Mrs Markéta Adamová from 9 to 11.30. The number of entries has stabilized and even allows us to vote. I have begun voting number 116 and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point in the presence of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 116, from 88 present for 47, compared to 30. The motion was accepted. I have no choice but to interrupt paragraph 173 in the general debate when Mrs Jitka Chalánková is reporting for the debate. By decision of interruption, paragraph 173, this item ends at the moment and we will continue according to the approved agenda. The next item on our show today is from the first reading block.
