ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u1	45. Government bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, and Act No. 136/2011 Coll., on the circulation of banknotes and coins and on the amendment of Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, as amended /German press 1009/ - first reading I have information that the Governor of the Czech National Bank would like to take part in the discussion of this point, something that we will have to decide by vote. I therefore begin the vote and ask who agrees with the presence of the Governor of the Czech National Bank, Jiří Rusnok. Who opposes this proposal? It's a serial number 231 vote. It's logged in 151, for 95, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I welcome the Governor of the Czech National Bank among us. Hello, Mr. Governor. Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the Government's bill amending the Czech National Bank Act and the Act on the circulation of banknotes and coins. It is largely a technical amendment which brings several partial substantive changes and legislative technical corrections to facilitate and, above all, to a uniform interpretation of this law. In the context of substantive changes, this is mainly about extending the range of monetary policy instruments and entities with which the Czech National Bank can enter into free market transactions, which is in line with international practice and the approach of the European Central Bank. [[14.50 hours]] Another substantive change is the addition of authorisation for the Czech National Bank to set the upper limit for selected credit indicators concerning consumer loans secured by residential real estate. This is an important instrument called. macroprudential policies that enable the Czech National Bank to fulfil one of its objectives, i.e. to take care of financial stability. The proposal also builds on the possibility of the Czech National Bank to establish or participate in the legal person to support the performance of its tasks. I would like to stress that this is not a delegation of tasks, and therefore the Czech National Bank has remained fully responsible for their implementation. Last but not least, the Czech National Bank's authorisation to issue commemorative banknotes and commercial coins is added to the part concerning banknotes and coins, which is related to the proposed amendment to the Act on the circulation of banknotes and coins. Finally, I would like to say that I consider it necessary for the Czech National Bank to have new instruments related to meeting the financial stability goal as soon as possible. For this reason, I propose a reduction in the deadline for discussing the bill in committees to 30 days. Since the proposed bill was prepared in the joint competence of the Ministry of Finance and the Czech National Bank, I would like to ask you to agree to the performance of the Governor of the Czech National Bank. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u3	We've already agreed to the governor's speech. Please, Minister, if you are proposing a reduction to 30 days, the proposal must be heard in a debate that we have not yet opened, so only if you have yet to sign up with your proposal for a debate, or one of the speakers, of course, can adopt the proposal. I now ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Klaška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u4	Good afternoon again. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say very briefly that the material has responded to a number of changes in the implementation of monetary policy on a global scale, especially in the European Union, in the euro area since the economic crisis broke out. In the future, it is therefore appropriate to lay down rules for the use of tools that have proved to be successful. From this point of view, existing legislation is too restrictive, e.g. limits the maturity of operations of the Czech National Bank with banks to three months. The proposed amendment therefore aims to eliminate this situation and to bring the central bank's possible operations closer to the Statute of the European System of Central Banks so that the CNB is able to react flexibly in the future to unforeseen events requiring changes in monetary policy settings. Another change is the emphasis on preventing the risks associated with the emergence of a spiral between property prices and loans for their acquisition and excessive household debt. In this context, the amendment will have a major impact on the mortgage market. And then other changes are purely technical. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. At this stage, I am opening a general debate. I've noted the governor's request for a performance, and I'm giving him my word, and I'm asking him to come to the rhetoric. Please, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u6	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to speak here on the occasion of the draft amendment to the Act on the Czech National Bank and the Act on the circulation of banknotes and coins. I will only follow up on what the Vice-President of the Government and the rapporteur have been talking about, and I would like to add some other facts that should justify this necessary proposal. It was mentioned that one part of the changes concerned a wider spectrum of instruments for implementing monetary policy for the Czech National Bank. As the rapporteur has already said, the point is essentially to extend this heading so that we have more opportunities to react, if necessary, in trade operations with our counterparties, i.e. commercial banks or, where appropriate, central banks of other States or international financial institutions. Another substantial part, also mentioned above, which I would like to devote a little bit more to, concerns new instruments, which should provide the CNB with the possibility to better manage systemic risks associated with consumer loans secured by residential real estate, i.e. mortgage loans. The amendment creates prerequisites for more effective implementation of one of our basic legal mandates and that is ensuring so-called. financial stability. Financial stability means the functioning of our financial system in a reliable way even in times of complicated, times that are characterized by some external or internal shocks, more or less unforeseen events. In order to carry out this task, we have already mentioned macroprudential instruments, but today generally recognised and internationally recommended instruments, some of which we lack and relate to the very area of mortgage loans. These include indicators of the type of credit-to-value ratio of the secured property, the ratio of total debt and available income of the applicant for credit and the ratio of the amount of expenditure resulting from the total debt of the applicant for credit to its income. These instruments, in the form of these indicators and the possibility of setting them up for banks, are presented by the government in cooperation with us in this amendment. It allows us, if approved, to approve, to set, say, the upper limit of one or more of these indicators, to manage to some extent or significantly manage the risks associated with these loans. Let me point out in this context that the area of housing financing loans has been one of the most important areas of our banks' business in the last period, because, just for your information, the volume of loans to households for housing amounted to approximately CZK 1.2 trillion by the end of last year. [[The President Asks for Peace]] In connection with the development of these loans, according to our analyses, there is an increase in potential potential risks for both the financial sector and households. This is addressed in detail by our forthcoming and published financial stability reports always at the turn of 2014/2015, 2015/2016 and now we will have another report 2016/2017. So far, we have responded to the growth of these risks in the form of recommendations that we are preparing and publishing and delivering to banks and branches of foreign banks and credit unions, but of course the recommendations are not legally binding and, in the event of strong competitive pressure, it may sometimes be difficult to ensure compliance with them, and so we also ask and propose in this amendment that we can also use this instrument as a mandatory, mandatory instrument, which could possibly be sanctioned in the event of non-compliance. I would like to stress that this is an instrument of macro-prudential, or an instrument which is not primarily an instrument of consumer protection, although, of course, it may also have these secondary consequences, and that is why we include it in the Czech National Bank Act, also in order to apply to all credit types of institutions we have, not only banks but also cooperatives, and therefore not to include it in consumer protection regulations. Of course, it is a regulatory tool and we assume, and the law also assumes that a certain tolerated volume deviation is being introduced here. It is not an instrument that is fulfilled with any pharmacologic precision, or that credit providers may, in justified cases, exceed the thresholds, typically e.g. In view of the specific situation of the credit applicant, the return of which is reliably secured by other factors. [[15.00 hours]] Third, it was again mentioned that the law introduces the possibility, in addition to the issue of occasional coins, of commemorative coins, of issuing commemorative notes. Allow me, then, to conclude, honourable Members, to express my conviction that the proposal will be accepted positively by the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently approved by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u7	děkovat you, Mr. Governor. [[Reporter reporting.]] I'll ask the rapporteur if this means priority rights. [[Yes.]] In that case, you have the floor and Mr Skopeček will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u8	Allow me once again to inform the House that last week, a subcommittee on the Committee on Banking, Insurance and Financial Markets met on Wednesday. The whole matter has been discussed and I would like to inform you of the resolution adopted by the subcommittee. The subcommittee of the Budget Committee on Banking, Insurance and Financial Markets after the opening words of representatives of the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the Czech National Bank, following the report by Mr Klaška and after the debate takes note of the Information on the Government Bill amending Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, and Act No. 136/2011 Coll., on the circulation of banknotes and coins and on the amendment of Act No. 6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank, as amended, empowers the Vice-President of Jaroslav Klaška to present this resolution to the Committee on Budgets and agrees to be published on the website of the Chamber of Deputies. So much information about the meeting of our subcommittee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u9	Thank you. Mr. Skopeček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u10	Hello. Thank you for the floor. By chance, one of the first materials that came into my hand here is the draft law on the Czech National Bank. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw your attention to this law, because in my opinion what it brings is much more important than it seems at first sight. I would divide that meaning into two planes. First of all, the law extends the potential of the Czech National Bank to use non-standard monetary policy instruments as we know them at the European Central Bank and the Fed. I do not think that this is something the Czech National Bank needs at the moment, especially when it is still using a non-standard instrument in the form of weakening the Czech currency, even when inflation has returned to its target in recent months. What central banks carry out around the world is an experiment to which neither economic science nor practice nor history has an answer. There has never been such a amount of money in the past that central banks pump into individual economies, and I do not feel that we should entrust this power to the Czech National Bank because I feel that this is not necessary. Another thing I consider important is the regulatory part where the Czech National Bank wants to have a greater impact on the regulation of mortgage loans in particular. Here I would remind you that it goes precisely against what it does in monetary policy, when it sends more and more money to a market that is overcrowded with liquidity. Of course, banks are very difficult to find ways and ways to lend this money to their clients and how to make money in some way. And what the Czech National Bank is doing in the first stage, it wants to regulate and limit in the second stage, in the sense that it will regulate Czech banks in whom it may and must not lend to a mortgage. It wants to regulate the mortgage bubble that, in my view, it creates by its own policy. So these are the two most important points of the law. There's certainly a lot of technical stuff in there, but please pay attention to this. It is indeed a significant extension of our central bank's powers and capabilities to influence the economy through quantitative easing. And as I'm saying, it's an experiment that no one in the world has ever found an answer to, and no one knows how it's gonna turn out in the finals. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u11	Thank you. Mr. Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Governor, I will take advantage of your presence here. I have such a request for you, virtually. question. The Czech National Bank issues Czech silver commemorative coins at a nominal value of most 200 or 500 crowns. It used to be a custom that on the cheek side or on the back used to be a great sign of the Czech Republic. At present, commemorative coins form rather artistically based on the announced competition. This means, it is now that on the face side is the inscription Czech Republic, given the nominal value of 200 Czech crowns, CZK, but there is no large state emblem. I wanted to ask because it used to be a custom, and I think it is also today that these silver commemorative coins are the currency of the Czech Republic, so I would have assumed that in some form the Czech sign would be preserved if you could answer me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u13	Thank you, too. I will ask who else is joining the general debate. I'll read the apologies. Mr Šarapatka apologizes on account of the foreign trip for the whole day. Mr Mihola apologizes on account of a full day's leave. Mr Plíšek apologizes for reasons of work between 16 and 19 o'clock today. Mrs Adamová apologizes between 16 and midnight for work reasons. Mr Okamura and Mr Radim Fiala apologize until the end of the day for working reasons. So many apologies. If no one reports, I will conclude the general debate and ask for final words after the general debate. [[A commotion in the hall. The governor wanted to respond to a question about coins. The Minister wanted to shorten the hearing period.]] Okay. I see. In that case, we will have to open the debate because, if I am not mistaken, no one has read it in the general debate and it must be someone other than the minister who is presenting it. Yes. Vice-President Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u14	Mr President, colleagues, have a nice day. I think we should renegotiate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u15	Thank you. We are going back to the general debate. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u16	Thank you for opening the debate. I applied, but I guess I couldn't see. I propose a reduction in the deadline for committee discussions from 60 to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u17	Shortening the deadline for 30 days. And before I close the debate, I will give the floor to the governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u18	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to answer the question of the Member. It won't be a complete answer. Of course, I'm ready to give him a professional or written answer. Yes. We're publishing commemorative coins. These commemorative coins have some kind of nomination, mostly 200, 500 crowns, silver, it's kind of a tradition, and it's an expression that it's really a currency. Theoretically, this can be true in law enforcement or self-service in this nomination, but this is probably not happening except for some extreme cases, because the real value of the coin selling and market is obviously much higher, among other things because it is some kind of artifact. [[15.10 hours]] According to approved rules... I would like to stress that each coin is issued by a special decree issued by the Czech National Bank, which is undergoing a legislative process, including the relevant committees of the Government Legislative Council. And I confess that I have not yet met with this complaint that there is no great state emblem. So I guess that's not a legal problem. And why is that, I'll have the answer processed expertly. I'm sure our numismatic specialists and even the tender experts will answer you satisfactorily. I'm sure it's not an omission. And if you don't mind, I would still respond to Mr. Skopeček. But there's been a misunderstanding here. First of all, we do not require anything special in those extended powers with regard to monetary policy. We basically require greater opportunities for business operations in monetary policy operations, e.g. work with longer durations and with some other issues as well as all major central banks in the world normally do. That's the first point. Second point. Mixing the expansion of instruments to serve specifically to the macro-prudential objectives of regulatory instruments is somewhat methodologically wrong with monetary policy settings. Because we cannot respond with a crude instrument such as interest rates, or some other overall monetary policy instrument such as the exchange rate, to the fact that we are developing situations specifically, perhaps more risky in one sector, even if important, such as mortgage loans. It's stupid to cut monetary policy by making money, I mean, credit money in banks, when we're not having a problem lending businesses at all. On the contrary, it is a good thing that, in a situation where there is demand, businesses can lend themselves politely without any obstacles, so there is no reason to cut it with a flat-rate decision on extremely strict monetary policy. That is why we need these specific finer instruments so that we can respond to the individual sub-sectors of the credit market. And that we're doing some kind of experiment - then the whole world is doing it. So far, the whole world has acknowledged that central banks' actions to save essentially liquidity and certain fluidity, to resuscitate financial markets were successful starting with the American Fed and ending with the European Central Bank, Japanese, British etc., so it doesn't seem to me that we in Bohemia were smarter than all of them and should do it in a fundamentally different way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u19	Thank you, Mr. Governor. And Mr Skopeček with a point of fact. Please. Mr Šenfeld apologizes for today from 15.15 to the end of the day for personal reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u20	Thank you very much. I'd like to respond to the Governor's words. Of course, this is a proposal that approaches what central banks use in the world. And that's not just a small change in the way you can use the tool, but it's quite dramatic to allow you to buy securities with a much longer maturity than you can today. And that is simply a significant intervention and a significant change, if the Czech National Bank were to do so in the end. And as for the methodical remark, I don't agree with you. I think that what is happening in the mortgage market is largely related to the extent to which the free monetary policy brings excess liquidity to the market. This is, of course, reflected in the fact that banks want to borrow more and more, and you come up with an instrument opposite, which responds to the situation that you caused by monetary policy. So I don't think it's methodically wrong to connect these two things. On the contrary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-003-045.u21	Still Mr Novotný? He's downloading. In that case, if no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. Let me ask you about the final words. Not interested. We will therefore vote on the commandments of the various committees for discussion. We'll decide on the guarantee committee first. The Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion of the Committee to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. [[No one checked in.]] If not, I am opening the vote and asking who agrees that the Committee on Budgets be the guarantee committee. Who's against it? It's vote number 232, registered 155, for 114, against no one. This proposal was adopted. There were no further proposals on the commandments of the committees for discussion. I'll ask if anyone else has any suggestions on the commandment. It's not like that. In that case, we will still be voting on the proposal that has been made in the debate, and that is to shorten the time limit for the committees to 30 days. I'm opening the vote, asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 233, registered 155, for 93, against 10. This proposal was adopted. I am done discussing this point and thank you to the Governor. Let's continue with point number
