ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u1	75. Government bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision (Health Services Act), as amended /German press 1072/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members, this proposal for an amendment to the Employment Act and the Health Services Act regulates, in particular and in a transparent manner, the area of employment of people with disabilities, which is a complex and systemic change, a change that is taking place in a clear separation and conceptual distinction between the free and protected labour market. And it's after really long discussions, especially with employers who really honestly employ people with disabilities. Furthermore, the amendment introduces an institute of recognition for employers in the protected labour market, in the form of an agreement concluded with the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic, which will replace an administratively demanding and inflexible system of defining individual protected jobs. There is also a new indication of the contributions granted to employers who employ people with disabilities. At the same time, it is adjusted above, respectively. is reduced by the amount so called a mandatory share and there is a measure to prevent undesirable so-called over-instruction of products or services provided within this limit. I'm talking about situations where somebody basically showed some products, like purchased printers, like products that made people with disabilities, and actually cheated, or it was on the edge of the law. At the same time, in favour of honest employers, we introduce the possibility of eliminating the hardness of the law, which consists in the possibility of absolving the condition of debt-freeness as much as the sum of the outstanding amounts and the time limit laid down for their reimbursement, and therefore only in exceptional cases worthy of special consideration. It happens to us repeatedly that some, perhaps the smaller company will not pay the entire amount in time for social insurance, and then because of the amount - I don't know - thousands of two thousand crowns paid a few days later, this employer is not, cannot be exposed to debtlessness and he will not receive a contribution for the quarter to employ people with disabilities. At the same time, this regulation still contains adjustments in a completely different area, and this area concerns people who are registered at the employment office and who, by reason of excuses for being with a doctor or having something to them, did not appear at the employment office as they are legally entitled to unemployment aid. So the definition of the temporary incapacity scheme of a jobseeker is changed here because of the illness or accident, and the legislation on the mandatory model of the certificate of temporary incapacity of a jobseeker and the binding model of the certificate of treatment or examination of that applicant is included here. We just want to prevent these people from just bringing some paper from the doctor, and in the future, we should be able to actually save up whether this person who has a treatment regime and whether he's following it, which is actually not possible in the case of these people today. Last but not least, there is a follow-up amendment to the Health Services Act and the conditions for its provision, in which it is the doctor's duty to issue a corresponding certificate as a patient. So thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u3	I also thank you, Madam Secretary, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Zdeněk Soukup. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the Minister has made an exhaustive presentation of the law. I predict it should be law-free, but we'll see. I'd like to comment on the law. When I studied it, I found out that I'm going to use a gastronomy equivalent that it's kind of a soup that the house gave, and soup like that can be quite successful. It is really from different areas, in particular it is aimed at employing people with disabilities. I would like to remind you that we have already adopted a larger part of the measures here a few weeks ago in the press of 911. That's where we took the measures that hurt us the most, and that was the contract register. I think you all know what's going on. This law was created under absolutely ideal conditions. If all the laws were made this way, we don't have that much work to spare ourselves unnecessary discussion. For three years, an expert group has been working to which I was delegated by the Committee on Social Policy. In the expert group they exchanged views of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities, Association of Social Services Providers, Association of Employers with Disabilities, Chamber of Employers with Disabilities and reached such a very fragile compromise. I would like to appeal to you that, in some way, as it is said and as it has been used here, we do not throw a pitchfork into this by means of various amendments, because this compromise is really fragile and can this very necessary law in some way - and now again I will use the concept of gastronomy - it can make us a cake that was cooked by a pussy with a dog and which has become quite undivided by food. I will recommend that we let this law into second reading without a problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u5	Thank you. I open a general debate in which I register two applications. Mr Vít Kaňkovský will appear first and Mr Opálka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u6	Mr President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, the proposed amendment to the Act regulates the employment of people with disabilities in the labour market plus some of the other provisions mentioned here. The KDU-ČSL Chamber of Deputies will support it for committee discussions. I will mention one of my points of view the debatable part, which is the introduction of a binding certificate of temporary inability to fulfil the applicant's obligations due to sickness or injury. On the one hand, this idea seems logical. It is intended to address the current situation where some job seekers avoid their responsibilities with reference to alleged medical incapacity, and labour authorities address this situation across the Czech Republic by demanding various informal confirmations, with which job seekers then circumvent various medical facilities. On the other hand, the solution with which the petitioner comes is of such a nature that so many administratively overloaded medical facilities are facing another obligation under the threat of sanctioning measures. And unfortunately, as always, there is no minimalist form. I have already had the opportunity to see his proposal, and as an active physician I can say that we are again loading another administrative burden on the shoulders of our health professionals. In the long term, we meet in hospitals with a phenomenon of lack of time to communicate with the patient, excessive administration takes us away from medical work, from talking to patients who are very important. I strongly hope that we will have an effective discussion in the committees on the necessity or at least on the form and extent of this confirmation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Opálka, duly applied for, will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, from my point of view only briefly, but I still think it is necessary. I consider the positive of this draft to be a restriction on the abuse of the system, i.e. its tightening up. This will, of course, adversely affect those newly excluded from the aid, both from the protected labour market and from the abuse of retraining or the sickness regime. Therefore, the proposal also has the support of the KSČM MEP's club. The problem outlined here by my colleague Kaňkovský will certainly be discussed on the committee, but it must be said that there is no one but a doctor who can expertly assess the situation. So let's come up with a solution. Personally, I'm not defending myself from him, but no one else can solve it for a doctor. I understand that there is more and more administration, but maybe we can simplify the administration in some other place. Let's leave it to the debate. However, I must also mention a negative which I cannot overlook in relation to this press. It is not a matter of substance, it is a frequent amendment of the Employment Act as well as other labour law laws. Just a little inventory for you. In 2014, five amendments were adopted by Parliament, five amendments in 2015, three amendments in 2016 and in 2017 we are in April and we are already discussing the fourth amendment. I want to say that I regret employers and all those who have to comply with these laws, which means getting to know them too. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u9	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. Mrs Hnyková, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u10	Thank you for the floor. I would like to support my colleague from Mr Opálka's Social Committee. Yes, really, we've had the Employment Act several times now. Perhaps if this had been prepared comprehensively, it would have been much, much more beneficial for employers. Of course we won't block the novel, we'll send it to second reading. But please, whatever parliamentary term it is, it would always be possible to submit an amendment to the law comprehensively, so that then, when we're in practice, employers don't accuse us that it's actually still a change to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-003-075.u11	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. I do not see the application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and rapporteur if you want to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee committee? I don't see a suggestion. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. First, I'll read what we're going to vote on. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 415. 126 Members and Members are enrolled, for proposal 94, against no one, and I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see a suggestion. In the event that is the case, I will end the discussion of this point and thank you. I'll read an apology. Today, from 18 o'clock to the end of the day, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnickýý apologizes for working reasons. I'm opening another point in today's program, and that's
