ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u1	71. Government bill on social housing and housing allowance /house print 1065/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Before I give you my word, Madam Secretary, I apologize, but I have overlooked with priority the President of your MP's club. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u2	Thank you for the floor. I would like to make a procedural proposal at the moment, because the ambition is to discuss today and the following two points, at least which are on the board, so I propose, on behalf of the Social Democratic Parliamentary Club and YES 2011, that we negotiate today, and to vote in terms of terms of terms and procedures on all proposals even after the 19th hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u3	After 7:00. This has been said here, this and the following two points, which means all three points that shine on the board, should be discussed today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u4	That's exactly what I asked for to be clarified. President Sklenák said two following, which is social housing and employment. There's still a monument fund on the board, so I wanted to make it clear what point it is to discuss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u5	The appellant specifies his proposal that all, this point plus three others, which are lit up, should be discussed today. [[Dissenting voices from the O.R.]] Repeat exactly which points you want to discuss today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u6	I propose that the House should act in such a way today, leaving out formal words to discuss the point at which we are now in, and paragraph 72 and paragraph 75.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u7	It's a procedural proposal. That has been said, and I have to put it to a vote without debate. If you'd like to make a counterproposal, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm counterproposaling the House to negotiate points as they shine there, which means 72, 75 and point 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u9	Thank you. In that case, I ask if anyone else has a counterclaim against the proposed procedure. It's not like that. This is a procedural proposal. First, we will vote on the counterproposal of Minister Herman. I wonder if it's necessary for me to repeat it. We all know what we're voting on. First, I'm going to take you all out on request. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. The number has settled. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of Minister Herman's procedural proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with serial number 295. 136 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 56, against 52. This proposal failed. We will therefore now vote on the proposal by President Sklenák. I wonder if I should repeat it. No. In that case, I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of President Sklenák's procedural proposal to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 296. 137 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 64, against 46. This proposal was also rejected. We can continue the negotiations. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall!]] First, my colleagues and colleagues, I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down... I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down again. In case you have something important to discuss, go to the lobby. And now I will ask the Minister to state this point. Please, Madam Secretary, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u10	Thank you for the floor. Maybe someone will hear me. It won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u11	Madam Secretary, I will repeat my request once more. In the event that you do not respect my call for silence, I will start by calling you, colleagues and colleagues who are disturbing the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u12	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Members, we are here to present the Government's proposal for a law on social housing and a contribution to housing. As most of you probably know, the need to make or adopt a social housing law in this Republic has been here for a very long time. This law has been discussed for at least ten fifteen years. So far, no government has taken it far enough to submit it to the Chamber of Deputies. Well, I don't think that's gonna work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u13	First, then, colleagues from social democracy, I will ask you to keep your voice down, then my colleagues from the ANO and Dawn movement, I will ask you to keep it down. Well, you see how it works. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u14	Thank you. So, as everyone knows, the need to have this law here has been going on for a very long time. This has been discussed for many years before this government took office. This government has put the adoption of the social housing law into a government declaration and into a coalition treaty. However, the whole time here is blooming business with poverty and, of course, this law should end this business gradually, certainly not at once. Of course, this law is subject to all sorts of conjecture. A lot of people have an opinion about him. When he was preparing, we were actually dealing with him as the Ministry of Labour, who eventually took care of it, we had a different opinion, and other opinions were held by the Ministry of Regional Development, whose idea of housing is. And, of course, various community-type actors, such as various organizations that work with homeless people, enter into this various associations of private-owned cooperative apartment owners or owners of apartments. These interests are very conflicting. This bill, as it is presented to you, is the result of a huge compromise. It doesn't seem ideal to me, the Minister for Regional Development doesn't seem ideal again for reasons other than me. A lot of other people don't seem ideal again for reasons like completely different. But we have tried to compromise and finally introduce a system that is normally common in the civilized countries of Western Europe. That's the main purpose. During the discussions and comments, and the discussions were really huge, there was also a request from the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Association of Local Authorities to enter this system for municipalities to be voluntary. And since my experience here in the Chamber of Deputies is that what the communities really don't want is not going to get away with it, we've granted them. So the system is voluntary at this point. In my opinion, as in many other people's opinion, it would be much better if it were mandatory, but again, it is one of the compromises that we have adopted in order for this law to be completed at all. Otherwise, from the very beginning, he has been accompanied by a number of myths. The main myth is that people who don't work, never work, and never work, now they get some nice apartments for free, while people who work don't get them. Oh, please, let's see what the real situation is today. This state spends CZK 13 billion each year on housing benefits. The people we're talking about, the socially weakest, they consume about a third of it in my opinion. The rest of the dose is taken by completely normal people who are just a little poorer. They're like seniors, they could be singles, they're just families with some lower incomes, but they're not by far the socially weak. And again, the socially weakest, where most of them live in hostels, where the state pays housing benefits, which do not meet any reasonable standards at all. No one works with these people, they're left to themselves. Yes, they are people who are often very problematic, but we must also bear in mind that there are a lot of children living in hostels. Children with single mothers also live in shelters very often, where to live up to the system where housing is supposed to be temporary. Just because there is simply no social housing system in most cities and municipalities in this country, those asylum houses do what they do by extending rent from year to year, respectively. They leave them there for a year, and in order to comply with the law, she goes to another asylum house for a year, then she goes back to another one for a year, so asylum houses like this substitute situations where a mother with children could, with some minimal support, have some normal community apartment for reduced rent. But maybe no one wants to give an apartment to a mother with three kids. She can't afford the commercial one, she can't bail. And that's just a fraction of the trouble. I really believe that if we adopt this law, gradually over the years, but not soon, but, for example, within five or ten years, the system will become very cheap and the business with poverty will gradually stop and end gradually. Of course, the ghettos that exist today do not disappear by waving a magic wand, these people will always be somewhere, but we want - or the law is built on three pillars. One pillar is that it merges the levy, the housing allowance and the housing supplement to make it clearer and very addressable. That's what we've been calling for a very long time. That means most people who live in normal standard apartments today and just take the dose as an accessory, so they stay where they are. The second fundamental pillar of this law is social work for a group of people. These are mostly the people we see in socially excluded localities at the residential hotels. A social apartment will be designated only with the condition that they cooperate with a social worker or worker, otherwise they will not get an apartment. And only the third pillar is really the so-called pillar. social apartment, i.e. municipal, possibly state apartment, as if a physical apartment, but as I say, for those people we still pay benefits, so the idea that someone else who doesn't have the benefits and doesn't live today would get the apartment, that's just odd. The target group is still the same, we just want the municipalities to have it, or if the municipality doesn't get involved, much more in their hands to make it much more transparent, much more supervised, and as a result we can save on it as a whole as a state. So I guess I'm gonna end up here with my opening word. If anybody raises any questions here, I will, of course, try to answer them, but I really don't think there's a reason for this law to try not to let it go through the first reading and not allow it to vote, because I really don't know who can be afraid of the social housing law here. I do, actually. It can only be those who are actually earning money on those benefits today and the poverty trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u15	I also thank and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, let me present to you as rapporteur the social housing law, which unfortunately only now, before the end of the parliamentary term, we are getting a table. This is a law of fundamental importance, a law that the current government has set itself as one of its most fundamental objectives. Therefore, my presentation report will also be quite comprehensive. By law, the petitioners promise not only to solve the housing shortage of people who find themselves on the street or in inadequate housing, but also to help people who live but who can get into the housing emergency at any time due to their low incomes. Since the beginning, the law preparation process has been accompanied by competent and factual disputes between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry for Regional Development and the Minister for Human Rights. All three resorts are signed under the resulting form of the law. Let me also remind you that the preparation of the law was started by approving the concept of social housing of the Czech Republic for the period from 2015 to 2025. The process of accepting the end was not at all simple. The deadline for its submission has been repeatedly extended and only 12 October 2015 has the government agreed on its final wording. This conceptual material defined priorities in the area of social housing, allocated financial amounts to the development of social housing and was to be the basis for the future law on social housing. However, the concept was accepted despite the disapproval of the Ministry of Regional Development, which even gave up its co-gestorship. The concept was not accepted positively by representatives of municipalities, although it is the municipalities that logically have to play a key role in the social housing system. The concept envisaged the compulsory involvement of municipalities in the social housing system, although its authors eventually abandoned the contested proposal to establish a fixed percentage of flats that the municipalities would be obliged to separate from the housing fund into social housing. In addition to the concern of unauthorized intervention in municipal decision-making, the lack of funding was already another critical point. With regard to the system itself, the concept then envisaged the establishment of three types of social housing - so-called. crisis, social and affordable. This system should have been transparent and motivating for its clients. The concept also included specific tasks for individual resorts in the field of social housing. According to the concept, the Social Housing Act was to be submitted to the Government by 30 June 2016, together with a draft law amending certain laws in connection with its adoption. Ladies and gentlemen, social housing is a very broad topic in which it is addressed, or should at least be addressed, not only accommodation for clients of the social system, but also social housing benefits and conditions for their provision, housing standards, rules of neighbourly coexistence, debt management of tenants, specific problems in excluded localities and a number of other problems. I would therefore like to remind you that the concept of social housing was not the only document that preceded the law itself and which dealt with the area of social housing. There are other documents prepared by individual departments in accordance with the tasks assigned by the government. These documents dealt with partial problems, or at least tried to design some solutions. First of all, I will mention the material of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with the official name "Identifying housing problems" resulting from the provision of housing benefits. As is apparent from the name of the material, he was mainly concerned with the analysis of the provision of benefits and proposed possible solutions leading to their more efficient use. Last year the government also passed the material of the Minister of Human Rights, then Minister Dienstbier, entitled Information for the Government on problems related to housing of socially excluded residents and a proposal for their solution. Both materials partially overlap. They contain a number of specific incentives and result in tasks for individual resorts. However, it seems to me that most of them remain only on paper, and the bill presented has little to do with them. That's why I'm talking about them in the past tense. It will therefore be up to you to assess how beneficial the final form of the Social Housing Act has been to the amount of paper that government officials have described during this parliamentary term on the subject. Now to the law itself. I will not be here slavishly repeating his description, what the Minister has already said, and what you can read for yourself in the Houses of the Press, but I will focus on preparing it. She didn't go smoothly either, as I'm sure you know. As with the concept, the deadlines for the presentation of the law have repeatedly shifted and the law has confessed in the process of commenting on major changes. The financing of the proposed system has proved to be the main core of the dispute. Therefore, the law was only sent to the internal comment procedure in July last year and it was not until September that it went into the external comment procedure. The external comment procedure was closed on 19 October. They probably didn't celebrate at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. After years of preparation, more than 600 fundamental comments were gathered to the law. I think it is not even necessary to say that this in itself proves that the law has been introduced without reaching an agreement with those who have something to say about social housing. The Ministry of Finance expressed its main opposition. Redesigned the Justice Department. Critical comments were also made by the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Regional Development, and the internal and partial work required a large majority of other comment points. Although some requirements were contradictory, a vast number of comments were still repeated. The aim of criticism was, above all, the very low legislative quality of the proposed draft, the lack of implementing regulations, the incomplete quantification of costs in the impact control report, so-called. The EIA, unclear funding and concerns about interference with the rights of self-government, if the obligation of municipalities to participate in the system is maintained, although the proposal already contained certain concessions for small municipalities. The version in the external commentary procedure even contained financial sanctions for municipalities. At the same time, concerns were raised about the low number of social workers to start working in the new system and to ensure social work with problem tenants. A large number of comments focused on how social housing should work in practice according to the proposed standard. I consider these questions to be all the more justified, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not yet dealt with many of them. Followed by a several-month settlement process of comments and rewrites of the law. I now do not want to recapitulate individual announced proposals because we have been learning about them almost exclusively from the media after the coalition negotiations. I mean, just in a hurry. Gradually, the compulsory involvement of municipalities was abandoned. The role of labour offices was changed, which were originally intended to function as some kind of real estate social office. A new office was invented to allocate state flats so that it would eventually be abandoned, and competence was entrusted to the State Housing Development Fund. The new merged levy replacing the current supplement and the housing allowance was ultimately left not only for the payment of social rent in social apartments, but will still be able to travel to standard apartments. The deadlines, the definition of the target group and other essential elements of the law were changed. But I don't want to go into details. Only Minister Marksová and her colleagues in the government know this, how the discussions took place, why some fundamental parameters of the law changed and how big compromises and from whose side they were accepted. [[17,00 hours]] Above all, it is not the task of Members to address us for ministers and governmental parties their mutual disputes and disagreements. However, as rapporteur, I must draw attention to the absolutely fundamental thing. The version of the law that we received in the Chamber of Deputies is fundamentally different from the one that went through the external commentary procedure concluded in October. She could no longer comment on its form. So the government is sending us a whole new law without going through the wheel of standard comments. And not just that. At the same time, the government also bypassed the Legislative Council of the Government, where at the beginning of February only the regulatory impact assessment committee and its position on the RIA accompanying the bill were dealt with by law. The Ministry does not have the cost of social housing calculated at all. It is also unclear where a sufficient number of apartments could be taken to serve as social apartments. The Commission recommended returning the document to the recasting. I would like to quote some passages from the Commission's opinion: "The draft law has undergone significant changes in the basic parameters since the initiation of the review procedure. From the date when the obligation to provide social housing was imposed on municipalities, through a phase where the participation of municipalities would be voluntary and the obligation would be taken over by the Ministry of Social Housing, until it was replaced by the State Housing Development Fund. The RIA report does not explain these fundamental changes in the direction of the petitioner in any way. It does not mention them as alternatives to the solution, it does not work with them, and it has responded to them only by changing the text according to how the bills were changed." The report is also paused over a certain naivety of the authors of the law who, without any analysis, claim that the impact on public budgets will be neutral. None of this can be claimed from the above documents. I quote: "One of the key shortcomings of the RIA report is the assumption that the costs of providing social housing and social work associated with it will be balanced by the entry into the labour market of part of the supported people, thereby reducing the amount of benefits paid and increasing tax revenue. However, the report does not only mention the conditions under which such an assumption may apply, but does not attempt to give examples and the degree of success, where the combination of social housing and social work in itself would lead people to find and maintain work for a certain period longer than a few months, to maintain their housing and to get back into society. The description of the problem is general, short-cut, incoherent, difficult to understand and provides neither sufficient information partial, nor an overall picture of the problem the law seeks to solve, its causes and scope, and therefore it is not possible to assess in other parts of the RIA to what extent, to what extent, to which part of the problem and its causes it intends to eliminate or improve, and not only does the RIA not do so, but cannot do so." End of quote. One of the most controversial points of the law is the target group to reach social housing. The Commission's report also comments on this issue. The estimates of the number of potential applicants are likely to be quite gross and the RIA report, instead of explaining, often only provides a qualified estimate, e.g. the municipality, but continues to count on it. The report also notes possible impacts on the housing market. However, their description is completely missing in RIA. Again quote: "Many costs are not mentioned and considered, although they may be potentially or locally significant. For example, the distortion of the market due to the regulation of rents in social apartments, the change in the prices of flats in localities where social flats will be built, whether because of the actual deterioration of housing conditions for other tenants or simply because of unwarranted concerns." Colleagues and colleagues, you may think that one opinion should not undermine our will to address social housing, that even in some unknown cases a social housing system needs to be developed. I certainly wish I could, because despite perhaps different ideas, we all feel that social housing can represent an effective and deserved aid and a return to normal life for a group of people. But we should be aware that we are not talking about a multi-million-dollar investment that we are dealing with within a single budget. We are talking about the cost of billions without which social housing, according to the current very ambitious idea, will never start to function. And that's why I'm terrified of this information. It comes from them that the government has passed a law that floats on the water. But, in particular, to be fair to Secretary Marksová, the truth is that the RIA report was modified by the Ministry in the meantime, between the meeting of the government and delivery to the House. But I'm not sure for the better. It's more of an essay exercise. For example, critics to describe the target group and disrespect the various needs of people in the social system were solved by adding more words about young people leaving the constitution or foster care and people from the LGBT community. I'm sure I welcome it. In the first case, it's certain. In the absence of help to young people who come out of homes or foster care into life, I warn long-term. Their only refuge is often children's homes, which provide them with housing even after adulthood - many of these cases we know - so that they can leave school in peace and prepare for their profession. I have certain doubts as to whether this chosen model is the right solution for such young people, because they will still have to wait for the apartment. I understand a little less about the LGBT community. I do not understand why there should be a higher incidence of people in need of social housing in this particular community. As far as seniors are concerned, even RIA here swelled up a little bit in the meantime. RIA notes that the problem of seniors in housing emergencies is latent, but does not follow any further information, so we do not know whether the seniors need a well-balanced social benefit in order to stay in their existing home and be able to pay rent or move into new social housing. Instead of a thorough analysis, RIA is rescinding e.g. for the Rapid Rehousing project in Brno, which, as far as I know, is running only briefly. And in relation to the behaviour of problem tenants RIA again draws data from a project in the area of Žluticka. I am not really sure that these are the relevant documents on the basis of which the state is to spend tens of billions on social housing. But the economic side is one of many. I personally see serious problems in a material way. Let me at least outline some of them. The law aims at very diverse groups of people, from homeless to the above-mentioned seniors. But as a result, it can hurt some people in difficulty. The law sets out, among other things, new rules for calculating a new housing allowance to replace existing benefits. And the petitioner himself admits that up to 14 percent of people lose this contribution in the new system. Wouldn't it be the single moms or the seniors that the secretary likes to talk about? But the people who live have only deep pockets and the housing allowance helps them pay standard rent? We would look for further analysis in the explanatory report in vain. The basis for the law says that without a solution to social housing, the cost of social housing benefits will increase in the coming years. However, if I remember correctly, the Minister recently commended the fact that payment of these benefits during the current administration of the resort has succeeded in reducing. So what is it really like? Moreover, with constant changes, we were in a state where the time limits for the apartment were extended to two, respectively. for three years, depending on whether the apartment is provided by the community or the state fund. Is this really effective helping people in housing distress? Shouldn't much more attention be paid to asylum houses and the financing of social services associated with helping people in need? [[17.10 hours]] How will crisis housing work, where clients of social housing can theoretically fall into? Will the open hostels remain and will the State finally lay down health standards for their operation? The representatives of the Ministry will certainly argue that the Social Services Act, for example, solves this problem. However, I believe that the emergency aid system should be linked and that individual types of assistance should logically follow up. By setting two different deadlines, the law simultaneously establishes an inequality between clients of the social system. Whoever will be lucky and will live in the village's system involved is to get an apartment until the said two years. Whoever does not live in such a village and has to ask for an apartment from the State Housing Development Fund is unlucky. He'll be waiting a year longer. I do not know why these deadlines have been set in this way. However, I troufat say that two different legal regimes can also be a problem in terms of compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, or equality between citizens before the law. The law will divide people into two different groups, with the only criterion being their place of residence. If the government wants to protect social housing, it cannot create two categories of citizens. Although concerns about intervention into the competence of municipalities have fallen at first sight, the pressures on the compulsory involvement of municipalities persist. A big topic is certainly also the motivation of municipalities to participate in the system voluntarily. I had a chance to talk to some of the mayors, and they weren't very motivated. The conditions for financing social housing remain uncertain because they are largely not enshrined directly in the law, but depend on government regulations. I confess that I also have great doubts about the functioning of the State Housing Development Fund. The representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Housing Policy, where we had the opportunity to discuss this issue a few weeks ago, did not even dispel these concerns. For those of you who have not yet read the law, the State Housing Fund should actually function as a state real estate agency and developer at the same time. Will he really have the capacity and ability to set up and build social housing from Aš to Bruntál? I will be happy to explain from the representatives of the Ministry how specifically and where the State Housing Development Fund will receive housing into the social housing fund. If I have read the bill correctly, it does not say anywhere that the State Housing Development Fund must look for empty and suitable apartments for social housing in the locality of the existing residence of the person in housing distress. The conditions for placing social apartments to prevent the creation of new ghettos have also disappeared from the law. I therefore very much understand the objections from the non-profit sector and from the social housing platform, which was actively involved in the preparation of the law. Without any rules, we risk the current ghetto staying and the new ghetto joining them. And then there's another very controversial point. In vain, I searched the law for anything that could be interpreted as a motivation to return from a social apartment to a normal rental home. The law in its final form has lost what we find in the original concept of 2015. It builds a system that is not accessible, but, on the contrary, keeps clients of the social system in social housing permanently. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs even admits to this in the RIA. Moreover, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs wants to provide social housing and drug addicts and people with different types of addiction. Not even a social worker will be enough for them, and the cost of trying to integrate these people into society will be enormous. I don't mean to say that we shouldn't try to do this, but we just need to see specific problems behind these attempts that will occur both in terms of finance and, for example, neighbourly life. In order to balance my report, I also want to mention from my point of view the positive changes which the bill has gradually undergone. First of all, it is a return to permanent residence as a condition of granting a social apartment. Some towns rightly feared that socially weak people from all over the Republic would move to their territory. It is not that this is not already happening, but it would be happening again, and it would even be under the auspices of the state. Secondly, it was decided that the housing allowance would also be provided for normal, not just social housing. I take it for granted, because many people, I dare say most, will not want to move to new homes together with more troubled tenants, for example, from excluded localities. They want to stay at home, where they're used to, and they just need help paying rent. This also applies, by the way, to many seniors, whom the Ministry most often curses. For some, the law may bring new complications. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has also shortened the list of target groups and has tightened some of them's approach. Specifically, people who, if I'm not mistaken, were originally among the particularly vulnerable. Therefore, there was no mandatory review of their situation after two years. Unfortunately, positive shifts are in the minority from my perspective. There are changes in the law that made his original versions a torso. And the resulting torso asks more questions than answers. The law has really spread wide. He wants one model to help save homeless people, residential people and help low-income families and seniors at the same time. But it does not solve the reason why people find themselves in housing distress, and it does not seek to bring these people back to normal life as a result of national efforts. In a way, it is based on new injustice. The practical functioning of social housing remains unclear. According to available information, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs supported pilot projects in 14 Czech cities and wants to prepare implementing decrees and methodologies based on their evaluation, but this effort comes somewhat late. Moreover, the conditions in each city are completely different from the people who live in them and the housing fund they have. My esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, I consider the Government's progress to be completely inappropriate, because it deliberately confronts us with a law on which the coalition itself has not found a consensus. The government bypassed standard mechanisms designed to prepare new legislation, commentary proceedings and the Legislative Council and sent paskvil to the Chamber of Deputies. However, MEPs are not to blame for the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already defended its ideas and, at the last moment, has taken a rapid action, during which the law has even eviscerated. The procedure for the preparation of the Social Housing Act shows what a legislative process should not look like. I'm genuinely disappointed in this. I do not think that we need such an ambitious standard, but I think that the legal framework for the development of social housing is really necessary. Even because the vast majority of cities operate social housing in the same way, often in cooperation with non-profit organizations. We also need better rules for the functioning of social work in the field, because it is not easy at all, and the organisations that pursue it need stable support and good conditions for their activities. We should certainly have a more detailed debate about better drawing on subsidies for reconstruction and construction of social housing. Such subsidy programs already exist, but sometimes cities complain that they are blocked by strict pumping conditions with good will and effort. Above all, we should be clear who exactly the social housing law is supposed to help. Despite the media claims made by Secretary Marksová, I dare say that the bill presented is primarily a law for homeless people, certainly not a law for seniors and poor families. Of course, I have heard the opinion that the law needs to be adopted as quickly as possible, especially in order to be something, it can be changed by amendments in the future. I don't share that attitude. I don't think this House should let a semi-finished product into the world with a vague future shortly before the election. It would burden other governments with a commitment of tens of billions of crowns without being able to say with certainty that it will work. First of all, in view of the lack of economic evidence and the outlined issues, I will therefore propose in the general debate in which I declare this to return the law to the petitioners for revision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u17	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, I will open a general debate. I'm registering the rapporteur's application, but before her application, I have another application with priority rights, namely the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Michal Kučera. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u18	Hello, thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this fundamental speech by the rapporteur, which has been very factually expressed on this law on social housing, has met with a complete lack of interest on the part of both the government and, unfortunately, the Minister, who was somewhere outside the O.R. Therefore, I would like to propose and request a 20-minute break from Club TOP 09. At least let the Minister read the report of the rapporteur's speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u19	I'm declaring a break for the TOP 09 meeting until 5:41 p.m. We will then continue with the rapporteur's application, which will be the first speaker in the debate. Mrs Pekarová will be ready. I'm declaring a break until 5:41 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats, we will continue after the break requested by TOP 09. Before we begin the debate, let me read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Martin Komárek, who apologizes for today's meeting from 17.30 to the end of the day. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. Members stand in the alleys and debate loudly. The chairman of the club ČSSD Sklenák claims a word in front of the speaker's desk.]] Mr. Chairman, I have a problem. I know you're claiming priority rights, but I've already notified the rapporteur's priority rights. So we need to hear first in the debate... So, with a factual remark, Mr. Chairman of the club ČSSD Roman Sklenák. I'm sure the rapporteur... You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u21	Thank you very much. As I have announced, I and our club would very much like it if, at least, we could get the social housing law through the first reading today. So, at this point, I would like to propose a procedural variant of the negotiations after the 19th hour that we have not yet voted on, namely on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and YES 2011, so that we can act today and take a decision on all proposals pending the discussion of paragraphs 71 and 72.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u22	Yes. This is a procedural proposal that we will decide without debate. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the number of entries is Sklenák, we will decide in the vote the order number two hundred and ninety-seven, which I will begin as soon as there is some peace in the House, so that everyone knows what we are voting on. [[A vocal debate by several Members at the speaker's desk on whether this proposal can be voted on. Ambassador Benda reporting.]] I think the number of entries is... Vice-President of the ODS Club. I don't see Mr President here, and I didn't notice an apology, but okay, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u23	I would just like very much, Mr President, to clarify the question of whether it is possible to vote again on this proposal. The proposal to extend the deadline after 19 o'clock was voted on. This proposal has not been adopted. This proposal has not been adopted. Therefore, in my opinion, it is not possible to vote on it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u24	This can be conducted in a procedural way that I would like to decide by voting, because that is a new proposal, because the original proposal was... There were actually two suggestions. Original design 71, 72, 75. The counterproposal of the Minister of Culture, which added paragraph 6. And now we have a proposal for paragraphs 71 and 72. I respect the right of two Members' clubs to make such a proposal, and probably if we hold this procedural debate, we will end up with nothing but voting, Mr President. So I can hardly do anything but put it to a vote without a debate. [[Ambassador Benda reporting again.]] I understand your priority right when the chairman of the MP isn't here. So one more time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u25	Mr President, I thought the procedural proposal was to be voted after 7:00. If there is a restriction, that is not a procedural proposal. The procedural proposal, as defined in the Rules of Procedure, is that it can be voted and discussed after 19 o'clock. And on top of that, we're putting some restrictions on ourselves. That's not what you're saying. I say that I object to your action so that the House can decide on this objection by voting, and then we can deal with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u26	I understand that. Thank you. Now you have not had to call on anyone to object, if necessary, to the President's procedure. So we understand each other well from the point of view of the Rules of Procedure. I didn't... So also the priority right of the chairman of the club ČSSD Roman Sklenák. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u27	Yes, of course, we will decide on this dispute in the vote. I just want to remind my colleague Benda, who responded to my original proposal, when he just wanted to clarify which points we should be discussing today. So, apparently, he's agreed on the conditional extended day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u28	Okay. Let's not get into that right now. I proposed to vote without debate on the fact that we will only discuss paragraphs 71 and 72 after 19 o'clock. My colleague Benda objected to this vote. So, first of all, we are voting on the objection to whether this is a voteable proposal, my colleague Benda. Check out again? Okay, I'll check you out again. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. It is true that other colleagues and colleagues have arrived. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the opposition to the President's procedure to vote on the negotiations after 19 o'clock on paragraphs 71 and 72 in voting number 297, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of adopting the opposition to the President's procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 297, from 129 in favour of 37, against 73. [[Denied.]] The procedure I proposed was supported by the House. In the vote number 298, we will vote on the proposal of two members of Parliament to discuss paragraphs 71 and 72 today after 7:00 p.m. I've started voting 298 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 298, from 129 present for 60, against 33. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will therefore proceed properly within 19 hours, and now by speaking in the debate that was open, the rapporteur. Mrs Pekarová will be ready. [[There's a lot of noise in the room. The rapporteur is waiting at the microphone.]] I'm asking for peace before I speak in the debate. Colleagues, colleagues, don't make me name sinners. And if you're discussing a text other than the government's proposal for a social housing law and housing contributions, please be in the foyer. I will wait, Madam rapporteur, for my colleagues to move their debates into the lobby. Now I don't know whether to start from left to right or right to left, but it is really in both parts of the House. Our stenographers don't have it easy on you. [[The O.R.'s down a little.]] Thank you. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u29	Mr President, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, as I have already said, the government has had a huge and commendable ambition to resolve homeless people's issues and has been preparing the law throughout the term. Unfortunately, the result is a complete and unusable pasquil, not only with regard to many legislative shortcomings, but in particular from a factual point of view. The proposal does not have the financing resolved, the implementing rules are not prepared, it is impenetrable, it would download people into the system, but would not motivate them to leave it. For truly vulnerable people such as seniors, single moms, young families with children, it would be a disaster, because a large part of them would lose their housing allowance and gain nothing. The law is probably contrary to the constitutional principle of equality before the law. The government has completely failed at the crucial point of its agenda, and as elections are approaching, it wants to turn responsibility for not adopting the law into this House. Therefore, it has put forward this proposal despite the fact that it must itself be aware of its shortcomings. In my opinion, rejecting this proposal would not be wise. It would send out a message that social housing is not needed to be dealt with. That the housing situation is no problem. This is not the case, and the housing situation of seniors, single parents and low-income young families with children must be addressed. This law, however, does not address it. We will not even be able to correct this law in committees. It would mean a whole new law in committees. Therefore, I propose that this bill be returned to the petitioner, the government, for work. If this proposal does not pass, I would like to propose extending the deadline for the hearing of the law in committees by 20 days. I deliberately say committees in plural. In view of the number and nature of the points at issue, I assume that other committees will also want to deal with the law, not just the Committee on Social Policy, which was designated as the Committee on Guarantee. As rapporteur, I will be happy to propose or support the assignment of the law to other committees. So far, thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u30	I thank the rapporteur for her speech in the debate. Before I give the floor to Mrs Pekarová, I apologise to Mrs Helena Válková, the President of the Chamber of Deputies, from 17.45 until the end of the day of the hearing. With a factual remark in the debate, the President of the KSČM Club Pavel Kováčik. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe some of you haven't noticed, or maybe because it's such a common phenomenon, it left you cold. Here is the topic of social housing and the housing contribution, which for many years has been clouding the media and public opinion, and the government - the government's bill proposal - has taken the ambition to solve it. And for the second time in the vote, in which the matter should be shifted so that, even in this parliamentary term, we would have reached a successful end of the bill on social housing and the contribution to housing. I ask colleagues from the government coalition: What prevented you from discussing the government bill - the government bill - twice in this evening? That this did not happen from the opposition, it is not about the law. It's just that for months, those here who have taken responsibility for government haven't honored that responsibility. If memory does not deceive me, colleagues and colleagues from social democracy and the ANO movement voted in favour of the proposal. And so I ask whether the government coalition still works with KDU-ČSL's participation, or whether quietly, as Mayor Vsetín left his city, the people left their government coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u32	Thank you. Another factual point by Mrs Halíková? No. So, Mrs Pekarová, duly signed up for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. But I have a great desire to ask you to interrupt this point, because, as you can see behind me, there isn't even a petitioner here, I don't see her anywhere in this room, so I don't wrong her. Nor is Mr Chvojka here as Minister of Human Rights fighting for this law. Neither is the Minister of Regional Development here, who also deals with this area. It's not that a member of the government isn't here, it's those who have this gesture, virtually. Who enforce the social housing law, there's no one here. So you can see how important this is to the government. Three and a half years they've been dealing with them, and eventually, when it finally happens in the House, the keys who should be sitting here defending him right now, and they should be answering questions, like where we're gonna take it -- such a detail -- so there's no one here to answer that. So I would ask you, Mr President, to interrupt the presence of at least the rapporteur, at least Minister Marksová, because I think that we Members really deserve her participation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u34	I will, of course, have this procedural proposal of yours voted. I'm gonna go on, because I've sent a number of colleagues to lead the debates into the lobby so I can be fair to them when I chased them out of the O.R. In quotes, of course, very decent and diplomatically. Then we will vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the interruption until the meeting of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. We will decide in the vote number 299, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 299, from registered 135 for 37, against 27, the proposal was not accepted. We're good to go. Mrs Pekarová is still registered because it was a procedural proposal in the context of her debate. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u35	Thank you. So thank you for your word. The fundamental problem with this standard is that according to the social housing law, the definition of the target group is really very broad. The rapporteur has also spoken about this, and I think that this really deserves our great attention. Because people who should be entitled to a social apartment are people who are either without housing or in inadequate housing. According to RIA, it's about 130 grand. persons and households, however, according to the size of the income and expenditure associated with housing. Housing costs greater than 40 per cent of deductible revenue. The size of the target group thus defined is 270 thousand. households made up of nearly 350 thousand. people plus those according to RIA 130 - and we're already at 480 thousand. persons. So, ladies and gentlemen, 480 thousand. people are almost 5% of the population of the Czech Republic, which according to this bill would be entitled to a state social apartment. The majority of the target group consists of resident persons. They are people working, but with lower incomes, seniors who have satisfactory existing, mostly rental housing, but, due to low income, they spend more than 40 percent of their household income on housing. This group is still effectively supported by the state in its majority, the housing contribution system. He has such a free choice of his own, where and in which apartment he will live. Of course, taking into account their revenue and the set limits of the aid in question. However, the proposed law reduces support for this group. So I would like to point out that these people are going to throw the bill overboard, because they will no longer be granted the benefit they are currently receiving, and these people will then be forced to deal with the situation in such a way that they will really have to move to a social apartment at the end of the day. Unless there are some apartments. [[18.00 hours]] People without work will be assigned a social apartment to a place where they can't find work today. Another pitfall of this bill. We will tie them even more firmly to a place where there is no job, making it harder for them to move to another city or to another region to work opportunities. We fix them in their problem and nothing will motivate them to leave the social housing. Moreover, in the case of more massive construction, of course, there will be an effect of segregation of the social needs, because logically those apartments will be exposed somewhere, although the law, of course, envisages that people in need can also be accommodated within the existing housing fund. But how many vacant apartments do we have, how many vacant apartments will be available? The law, in its majority, is therefore advantageous for those who do not work and live only on social benefits. Any person without housing, i.e. anyone without shelter living in a hostel or without a lease or declaring that he is staying with friends or relatives, guarantees entitlement to a social apartment. It makes this group go into social housing regardless of whether it has or does not have competence for separate housing or whether it wants such housing. It is not possible to conceal, of course, that a group of people do not have competence for separate housing. The law does not motivate this target group and actually does not require it to try to find housing in a normal available market before it can apply for a state social apartment. The provision of housing on the market with the help of the social benefits that we already have today should always take precedence over the allocation of a social apartment. The law also does not motivate the target group to change the current situation, namely those who are not working to return to the labour market. He wants to guarantee apartments and social benefits to cover rents to those who do not show motivation to change their status. On the contrary, the law makes access to financial housing support difficult for those who work properly, for the current low-income population, as I have already said, low-income workers, seniors, but also young families with children, handicapped persons, etc., and sets stricter conditions for obtaining financial support for housing, which are benefits - housing allowance and housing supplement. In the end, low-income workers or seniors with pensions are actually worse off than a consciously unworking person receiving income from the whole social welfare system. Of course, the differences are easy to calculate. We have specific amounts directly calculated here. So people who need only a few hundred crowns a month today to be able to live with their current income in an apartment that needs to be rented, so they'll lose this dose and eventually the only option for them will be a state social apartment. Of course, the proposed law will weigh heavily on the state budget. We don't know the exact amount. The rapporteur has also already said that this is not explained enough within the framework of the explanatory memorandum. However, in the case of the adoption of the law, the creation of social housing capacities is to take three ways: using the existing municipal fund, which is, of course, limited by the volume of housing owned by municipalities and also by the will to provide them into the system. I can give here, for example, the example of the city district where I worked as councillor for four years responsible for this area in Prague 8, and I have to say that social housing was offered, we had it available, they are still available under the current management, however they are about hundreds of apartments and most of them serve as nursing homes for seniors who are used and are obviously occupied by people who live there today. And it's probably hard to imagine that the city section will evict them so that they can get people who are newly entitled to social housing. Another part of such housing fund is used by municipalities to provide housing for people who need it in various professions, such as policemen, nurses - service apartments. So the housing fund isn't all sold out. Of course, it depends on the municipalities, depending on where the cities that did it are, but this is how the apartments are used. And if we really need them for social housing, we either have to move these people out in some way, or we're gonna build new apartments, which is the other option -- getting a new apartment by building a new building. Then there is also the possibility of providing apartments for private owners. The municipality may compete to rent flats in the amount of locally usual rent, but it is, of course, limited by the will of landlords who have available a free apartment, who then lose control of who will live in their apartment. And I don't think it can be expected to be massively successful. The construction of a new housing fund is most likely. And in this regard, it will really be the billions of crowns that will be needed. Of course, it is not only the costs that will cost the purchase of flats, but also the people who will manage the whole system. For the cost of jobs associated with the administration of the system that would require this law, it would take about two thousand new workers in social services and there can be expected a cost of about 1.3 billion. crowns a year. So, of course, the cost of this system has to be added to this. Of course, savings are planned under the law just when many people lose their entitlement to social benefits. But they're really the ones who don't need state social housing often. And this part of society is really going to create unequal conditions, so it's also relatively unfair to, let's say, these people. Of course, another aspect that we can support by this law is corruption, which is very likely as a result of apartment waiting lists, and it can be expected to bring it in this respect for sure. When we talk here often about the business with poverty, so-called. the business that is taking place in the residential hotels, moving from the residential hotels and apartments, so it must be said that during the entire term we are here, during the entire term of office of this government, there has not been a clear and satisfactory solution to this situation. It would help a pretty easy measure that the government has not yet implemented, and it is actually still pushing it into uncertainty. It's called. price maps that would be created for all regions that correspond to the specific location and maximum possible rents that could be supported in that location, and then, of course, they would be linked to labour offices and labour office officials who would have to respect them and to the maximum amount of these price maps would provide social support, i.e. housing benefits, namely housing supplements. If we had this instrument that the government could have implemented long ago, a significant part of the very trade in poverty would have been quite simply and elegantly resolved by this measure. Because the people who rent the apartments today are, say, so rude and outrageous that they don't hesitate to ask for rent in locations that are often excluded, for apartments that are in very bad shape, for rents that you wouldn't have to be ashamed to pay in quite nice neighborhoods here in Prague. So in this regard, the government has clearly not taken enough steps that it could have taken. And when the Minister here said in her introductory words that those who do not want to support the social housing law are actually supporting the speculators, I have to ask if this is also the Minister's way of saying that he supports the speculators by pushing this simple step. Because in some regions it is such a public secret that it is these apartments that are being purchased by people who subsequently move in local politics. So, if that's what the Secretary of State meant, he's basically heading into the ranks of a government party that is vehemently enforcing this law. [[18.10 hours]] I think that if we look at the law very honestly, which the rapporteur has done in particular, we agree that she has such major flaws that it is very unlikely that we will be able to fix this here in the six months that we still have until the election and make it a viable and really functional solution. I fear that this is not possible and that the government, which had enough time to prepare the system and prepare a law such that it really does not need any amendment in the near future, has literally failed in this direction. That is why, of course, I will support a proposal that will want to return the law to recast. However, I do not think we need a social housing law as such. Indeed, the Czech Republic has no longer dealt with this problem in the long run, or there is certainly room for proposing a standard that will help the system, but it has really helped, and not to make some residents of a worse category, to take away the benefits they were entitled to today, and actually to give priority to a group of others, often one that does not have much interest in solving their own life situation. And again, I can speak from my own practice when we offered social housing, and we really had dozens of them. In the city where I worked, we always had a contract for one year for a fixed period and about fifty percent of the people who lived in the apartment, even if they fulfilled the housing first condition, that is, first they had housing, and then when they had time to look for work, they never found any work, the debts on the apartments grew and grew and it was very problematic to move these people out of the apartment afterwards. When we look at the motivation of those tenants, the future tenants of social housing - does this law really motivate them to leave the system after a while? In order to be able to stand on their own feet and consequently be able to go to the normal labour market, find a job so that they can secure their incomes and then go to the normal housing market? I don't think so, though, of course, social work is guaranteed there. But that was in our social apartments, too. There was a social worker a month after month, who literally held hands to help them find employment on the labour market, and we are talking about Prague, where employment on the labour market, we probably agree that it is much better than in some parts of the Republic. So if social housing is exposed to social housing in such parts of the country where unemployment is higher today, even though unemployment is really at a very low level in the Republic, it creates only the dependence of people on the place, jobs are probably not going to grow there like mushrooms after the rain, and at that point the person remains only and only dependent on the state and its assistance, he is not able to stand on his own feet. This is the main pitfall that I think we should not take lightly, we should take into account it and we should try to change it in the proposal itself if the law goes into further reading and try to avoid the biggest problems that I have mentioned. So I'd be interested in the financial cost of the system, how much we're going to cost in the years to come. I think that this is a very relevant question and we should have a clear answer to it. We should know what it's going to be. I will be interested to know what will happen to people who have recently lost their support, the welfare benefits that help them to live in their homes. Indeed, they are often especially seniors. What about them? We're gonna move them to the old knees, since we don't even have apartments yet, so we have nowhere to go? I'm very interested. Then I'd be interested in motivating people who aren't older, but they're able to work, how we're going to get them out of the apartment, too, in time. What will be the effort of these people? What will this be subject to? And then I would be interested in the segregation that is threatening in this regard, because even though the law says that there is an attempt to keep the apartments from being concentrated in one place, I think there is no force, there is not much to guarantee it, there is not much to enforce it. And if the mayor wants to set aside a social apartment on the edge of the city, he will, and the apartment on the edge of the city in a very short time can be clearly another excluded locality. Those are the risks I warn against, and I wonder in this regard the answer of the petitioners, because I think that even these things should be introduced to us in advance, so that we know how to stand up to the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u36	Thank you, Mrs Pekarová. Before Mrs Radka Maxová comes forward, allow me to read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Petr Adam apologizes at 18:00 and Minister Robert Pelikán apologizes from the meeting day. Now, Mrs Radka Maxová. Mrs Marta Semelová will be ready. [[There's noise in the hall!]] Once again, I ask the House for peace. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u37	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to speak for myself here, I hope that my time will come, I was asked by Minister Šlechtová to read basically her speech, because the Minister is outside the Czech Republic, so I will now read her opinion on the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, on the proposal for a law on social housing and on the contribution to housing and on the proposal for a law amending certain laws in connection with the adoption of the law on social housing and on the contribution to housing, let me inform you on behalf of Minister Šlechtová and the Ministry for Local Development, who is the co-gestor of this law, that social housing needs to be addressed in the Czech Republic. However, the question remains how. Is it right for the State to intervene in municipalities in the area of social housing? Is it right for the state to address this issue by allocating apartments? Or should this rather be an incentive for people without housing or risk of losing their housing to regain their so-called housing competences? Unfortunately, I have to say that the petitioner of the law, this is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, has admitted a real debate both within the coalition and with other partners such as the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Union of Towns and Municipalities -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u38	I am very sorry to interrupt you, my colleague, but I must insist on following the Rules of Procedure, at least one minister must deliver a government coalition to me. I know you're reading the opinion of the Minister of Regional Development, I understand that very well, but you can't represent her, even from this place, when you speak on her behalf. So I'd like the heads of government clubs to do their best. I had the good will to let you finish your speech, but unfortunately I can only wait a moment if someone runs away. I interrupted before some minister came. It would be unfair, I know you can speak at any time, Mr. Chairman, but still. [[Mr. Kucher.]] First, I'm gonna let the heads of government MPs work before I give the floor to anybody else. The Minister of Human Rights has arrived. Please, colleague, you may proceed. Mrs. Radka Maxová continues. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u39	I didn't want to be impertinent in any way, but I'm a little surprised by the translator's attitude towards this law, where he's been waiting for the second time. Indeed, the Chamber of Deputies is very important to him. I apologize to Minister Šlechtová for not having this in my text. [[18.20 hours]] So I'll start over. Unfortunately, I must say that the law's petitioner, meaning the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, admitted a real debate both within the coalition and with other partners - the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance, the Union of Towns and Municipalities, the Association of Local Authorities - during inter-ministerial commentary proceedings. Despite all the efforts of the co-president, i.e. The Ministry of Regional Development, no comments were taken into account. The conceptual contradictions between the two ministries in the draft law on social housing and housing contributions have therefore not been settled and continue to persist. This is in particular a contradiction concerning the definition of the target group. The Ministry of Regional Development insists on the residual nature of the social housing system, which implies targeting disadvantaged or excluded persons whose unfavourable housing situation requires the use of social work. These are persons who are normally difficult to apply on the housing market. This target group includes e.g. persons living in hostels, in shelters, or using social services such as dormitories. This is a concept that creates a non-market segment of rental housing that does not compete with the private real estate sector. This approach does not only have a negative impact on the free market for flats, but rather contributes to crowding out those entities currently using a poorly set benefit system and providing housing for high payments to those who do not accept the normal housing market. A large target group, promoted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, carries a risk of special-purpose behaviour by persons who would normally ensure housing in the market. For these persons, the municipality is able to provide housing much more effectively than the State, especially using existing support tools, which are social benefits and investment support from the Ministry of Regional Development. The broad concept of the target group will bring an unpredictable increase in financial claims and the return of the corruption environment. Long apartment waiting lists, black flats market. From the point of view of housing policy, there will be a disruption of the functional housing market. The second contradiction, which follows the narrow concept of the target group, consists in requiring the Ministry of Regional Development that only one type of social housing be subject to the law, namely an apartment in which the conclusion of the lease is conditional on the compulsory drawing up of social work on the basis of the individual needs of the tenant. Apartments without compulsory social work should not be subject to this law and should create mandatory claims on the state budget. The treatment of these flats should fully fall within the separate competence of municipalities which are able to take account of local conditions and needs and can already use state subsidies for these needs today. For many years, the Ministry of Regional Development has been offering a number of grant titles for social housing, which are community homes of seniors, nursing homes, entry apartments. In the context of my speech, I would like to draw attention to other uncertainties in the draft law, such as: insufficient demand for preferential application of social policy instruments in dealing with housing emergencies, which are social benefits, social services and social work, to obtain housing on the market before seemingly simple but many times more expensive allocation of social housing, whose investment and operation will be borne by the State, or a duplicate conception of the social housing fund register. We propose that the register of the housing fund be maintained by the State Housing Development Fund in order to avoid duplication and reduction of financial demands. At the same time, there is a need to ensure and maintain consistency between building regulations, the Civil Code, especially in the area of setting up rental relationships and other legislation. Given the clear need to deal effectively and promptly with the issue of social housing, I fear that the unresolved contradictions will make it difficult, perhaps even prevent the implementation of the law in practice. Thank you for your attention on behalf of Minister Šlechtová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u40	Thank you, Mrs Radka Maxová. Now I have three factual points ahead of me. First Mr Karel Fiedler, then Mr František Laudát and then Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u41	Thank you for the floor. I am also signed up in a proper debate to say my opinion on what is happening here, but only in a factual note of the response to how this law is being negotiated. It is truly shameful if, at the end of the parliamentary term, the strongest party of the government coalition has presented such an important bill, at least according to their claims, and takes place in such an atmosphere, literally in such a lack of interest about what has been said here. I would like to thank the rapporteur for the introductory words and a very factual and very detailed argument on this law. Those of us who listened to the opening words of the rapporteur, Jitka Chalánková, may have taken an opinion on the matter. And I think that the spirit in which the discussion of this important coalition is taking place for the government, the point that we in the opposition wanted to address, and we have proposed some solutions, we have always been told that the government will come forward with its own proposal that what the opposition has proposed is nonsense, so now we see how the government imagines the quality. And it is very striking that even within the government coalition, there is a very diametric view of the proposed amendment, as we have heard from the recently interpreted contribution on behalf of Mrs. Maxová on behalf of Minister Šlechtová. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u42	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Now, Mr František Laudát, a colleague of Mr Kučera will also be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u43	Thank you for the floor, ladies and gentlemen. A colleague of mine, Fiedler, took a little wind off my sails. But don't be angry with me, I call on you, Mr Vice-President, to take a break by the end of today's meeting day and end this very undignified theater. The petitioner, I believe, should sit here, should sit at the table of the petitioners and rapporteurs. I wouldn't want him to really... You're already doing a really awkward farce here, and stop it, or we're all gonna be embarrassed. I also think that, while I understand that Minister Šlechtová is duly excused as a co-gestor should be sitting here. Someone here has embarked on social experiments that could cost our country billions of crowns. Irregularly, as are a number of different aids and various contributions and spending. I warn you, in recent years, only this government has put an extra CZK 75 billion in mandatorial expenses. If the economic cooling comes, you send the Czech Republic to Greece. I'm warning you. So I'm really asking, even though the Secretary of State has sat at the table of the petitioners to actually end this farce today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u44	I thank my colleague Laudát for keeping time on the point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr... Mr Zdeněk Soukup will be prepared, in which case, Mrs Marta Semelová in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u45	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, I must say that I have been impatiently waiting for the government to finally fulfill its promise and submit a law on social housing. There is no doubt that it is very necessary and that many individuals, families and organizations involved are impatiently waiting for its approval. The fact that those who question his need or reject him directly could be expected. On the other hand, I would like to say that I, too, am very unpleasantly surprised by the lack of participation that we have here during the discussion of this law to monitor, and I wonder if this government, virtually. The ČSSD is really about adopting a social housing law, or it's just a voter game on your part, and in fact this big issue, the promise you made to the voters, you don't want to fulfill at all. But back to the law. We all know that the form of the bill presented is not ideal. I consider it a risk to end the benefits without moving into a new system, the danger of segregation of social housing, the planned abolition of the payment of the newly conceived housing contribution to households living in substandard housing forms, which have so far received a housing supplement. I also consider it important to return to the allocation of flats to families at risk of removing a child. These families should be clearly predestined as a particularly vulnerable group in the allocation of flats, with social housing receiving without unnecessary proof. Of course, I mean those families that are in this situation because of poverty. These are some of the topics that we should discuss during the next reading. At the same time, I would very much like to see an end to the disputes and patronage between the Ministry of Regional Development and the MPSV, which, like the eternal argument between the parties to the government coalition, have signed on the delays in lawmaking and, of course, on its form. I know that there are cities and municipalities that are already taking care of their citizens without the legislation mentioned, but that does not mean that they should not adopt a standard that sets certain rules, determines the rights and obligations of those concerned and, above all, - guarantees funding, respectively. co-financing where necessary. The problems that the municipalities and with them, of course, mainly the citizens have encountered after the housing fund has been privatised irresponsiblely and briefly, are considerable. Business has grown with flats and houses, business with poverty, corruption, huge profits on the one hand for people without scruples and poverty, living and homelessness on the other. And yet it is known that there are thousands of flats empty, others are used for illegal activities and speculation, other houses are deliberately left to be misplaced, because lucrative land brings a few individuals much more dizzy returns than housing for people who need it. And there are many of these. I know the law won't solve all these problems, but it can help in many ways. I'm sure it must be the law of quality. In the Czech Republic, there are currently almost 200,000 people in housing distress. Between 2011 and 2015, the number of such persons tripled. If the trend of increasing the number of these people continues, count how many people can get into a similar situation over the next five years if no action is taken. According to a 2015 MPSV survey, the direct loss of housing is threatened to 117,000 people, of which 8.5,000 children. They grow up in hostels, in shelters, moving from one place to another. Housing costs are simply unbearable for a number of fellow citizens. Rent, which is often set to a maximum degree, water and sewerage, energy, waste and so on. From 2000 to 2014, the overall increase in housing prices represented almost 103 percent. In the countries of the European Union, the average increase in this group of expenditures was 63 percent. It mainly affects groups of people such as seniors, especially single seniors, families with children, single mothers, young people coming from children's homes, long-term ill, disabled, those who cannot get jobs, victims of domestic violence and many others. Many of them are waiting for an opportunity to get an apartment from the village, because they don't have the money to buy it, and they don't dare go into a mortgage. They either wouldn't have been on repayment, or they wouldn't be sure for the future, e.g. If they have a job. Moreover, such debt for young families with children is for a very long time. So getting an apartment is an unsolvable puzzle for a large part of our fellow citizens. Moreover, if the municipalities already allocate some flats, they do so not according to the needs of the applicants, but by the envelope method, i.e. who gives more. So those who can barely get along with their income are on the sidelines. The particularly alarming situation is in the capital, where the average price of the new apartment is about 5.5 miles. CZK, making new housing available only for a very narrow group of people. Similarly, there is a very expensive rental housing, where rents grow much faster than wages or pensions. The right to housing is one of the fundamental human rights. According to the European Social Charter, it is the responsibility of the State to ensure that housing is available to its residents. This task cannot be left to the free market alone. The housing concept should have been a mandatory part of the development of each community. It is necessary, as I have already said, the law on social housing. We are finally discussing this and, given its importance and need, we really should pay the attention it deserves during the next reading and in the committees. However, in such a way that we can still approve it during this term of office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u46	Thank you, Madame. And now another one for the debate is Mr Zdeněk Soukup. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the long-disputed bill has become a compromise and I would say toothless. Nobody's excited about him. That's what the petitioner said, there's no great enthusiasm here. The key to compromise was found by introducing a principle that entry into the social housing system is voluntary for municipalities. The solution, as I said, not ideal, but, as it seems, the only viable. I'm bohužel so. The question is, do we need a law like that? I personally answer such a question, unlike my previous speakers, that we need a social housing law. But what? Let's look for a needle in a haystack, look for the positives in the design. Personally, I appreciate the fact that the planned establishment of a super-office was abandoned, which was supposed to treat clients in housing emergencies in unregistered municipalities. I think handing over certain tasks and powers to the State Housing Development Fund is a good move. I just hope the fund doesn't start swelling up, that it doesn't start blubbering. I would consider a good move to abolish the housing supplement, which, in its time, started a business with poverty. A great deal of distrust in me is quite vague wording in the proposal that the newly introduced housing allowance includes both existing benefits, i.e. the state social contribution to housing plus the housing supplement. Madam Secretary should explain that to us. Somehow, in the design, he keeps his mouth shut about the residential hotels. It is clear to me that by adopting the law, it will not disappear from the face of the earth, even if I wish it. But that wouldn't be enough for the submersible arches. But will it at least mean the end of the extortion pricing of the owners of these residential hotels? That's another question for the Minister. [[18.40 hours]] I consider the biggest weakness of the proposal to be a small emphasis on the motivation of clients to get out of the housing emergency. Just to be clear, I don't mean seniors, singles, young families or handicapped people. My complaint concerns healthy people of working age, in whom their social disadvantage is due to a chronic allergy to work. I think that one of the criteria for granting a newly introduced housing allowance should be the client's employment, or his willingness to accept permanent work, or at least community service or community service. How, however, do we include it in the proposal? In my opinion, the housing allowance should also motivate the client to go to work where there is enough. It could stimulate much-needed labour migration, become one of the effective instruments of active employment policy. Lapidarně, a skilled client will be better applied in Pilsen or in Central Bohemia than in Moravian-Silesian or Ústecký Region. A new register of housing funds could be very useful here. I hope to try at second reading, if it gets to them, to treat this matter with an amendment. I am very concerned about the Government's proposal for a law on social housing, with some emphasis on the construction of new flats. I mean, and the facts from the Association of Property Owners confirm that there are quite a lot of vacant apartments in the commercial rental market. If their owners are willing to put these apartments into a social housing fund under standard conditions, it is unnecessary to build new apartments. All the more so, that the construction of new flats, if it were to be economically viable, and I agree with my colleague Adamová, would probably take place by setting up infamous rabbits, which would create a new ghetto with all the sociopathological consequences. This completely contradicts the need to dispel, above all, socially excluded among the majority population. Actually, it's not just about this category of socially excluded people. I think it's pretty depressing to segregate into one place even the elderly, the disabled. Even those who need help in the form of social housing should live under absolutely natural conditions. In the latest version of the Social Housing Act, I was interested in one more change - in the procedure for recognising the housing emergency and in the allocation of the social housing, the approval of the municipality is required only if it applies to the system. I hope I didn't miss it. In other cases, it is decided by the Regional Labour Office or the Ministry. I think it's wrong. The municipality should express itself in any case. It's not conceivable for someone to make a demographic policy for her, for example, against the will of the locals, to be an outsider. I can mention a lot of cases, for example, from my region where the situation got out of hand with the local government and the city or village became a wonder for the local old-timers, not the Bronx. Example: Rotava in Sokolovsko. Speculants from all over the Republic may have taken advantage of the unfavorable situation on the labour market, bought cheap apartments and moved into them troubled families that wanted to get rid of elsewhere. The security situation in the city got worse, people's relationships escalated. All of this affects, for example, another decline in property value. So quite recently adopted measures, which gives municipalities a certain right to talk about the social housing contribution, I think it was called and called among the opponents of this contribution Stanjurův's sticker, I recommend keeping. That was just a few comments that I made when I read a rather extensive law. As I have already said, I will work my comments into the amendments. I would like to comment on one more question. It is often said that this proposal, or some proposal, is pasculi, that it is incorrigible and so on. I don't think so. Everything, as we have seen in the case of some laws, which have been corrected by a comprehensive amendment, is basically correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u48	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Fiedler will now speak in the debate with a factual remark. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u49	Thank you. I will respond to a colleague of Soukup, who has mentioned the employment issue quite extensively or more properly here. Because this subject has a very close connection to it. On the one hand, we still have a considerable volume of unemployed people, which, although very low, is still in the order of 300, over 300 thousand. And those people are often in financial distress because they don't work and they don't want to work. I think I will lead the colleague Soukup out of error through Mr President. Even in that Moravian-Silesian region, it's different today. There's a huge demand for labor. I was here about two weeks ago, or three weeks ago, I mentioned it once before, I was at a local firm that says he has an investment ready and he's gonna need 700 employees. If he doesn't get it, the investment will go elsewhere and the company may leave the Czech Republic or be relocated. Why am I talking about this where I'm going? My point is that, as I have often said in my election campaign before the beginning of this House, we are dealing with the consequences and not the causes. Perhaps it would be very helpful if we focused on the fact that we still have so many long-term unemployed people who, I dare say, are avoiding work and waiting with their hands stretched out, who will contribute to their housing, rather than giving them this rather dangerous social gift, which will only preserve them in a state that they will not have to deal with their situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u50	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for respecting the time limit. Mr Vilímec will speak as the next party to the general debate and Mrs Nohavová will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u51	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express, as many, the amazement that the government is sending this bill to the Chamber of Deputies just a few months before the elections. [[Minister Chvojka from the place: What?]] I have been in the Chamber of Deputies since 2006, and I do not remember two members of the government showing such deep conceptual differences over the proposal that the government has sent to the House. When I listened to Mrs Maxová, who read the letter from Minister Šlechtová, the content of the message, as I would call it, is completely diametrically different from what the government has presented to us and what Minister Marksová has presented to us. You know, the law is very unusual not only because the ministers of this government can't agree on it. It is non-standard first of all, and it has also been said here that its performance is not really mandatory for those municipalities, it is voluntary. Secondly, the law is obviously very expensive, or it will be very expensive, and unfortunately, we don't even know how expensive it will be. Thirdly, it is a law that this government will not even implement, it will be implemented by other governments, or would be implemented if the law had been passed. I believe that even representatives of the parties to the government coalition are not convinced that the law will be passed. We're just discussing something that we know isn't gonna be approved. And it is already strange in this House press. And perhaps it is a law that we do not really need in this form, as it is presented. You know, I'm kind of reminded of the housing management system with state apartments that were canceled at some point in the early 1990s, and when the National Committees, on the basis of the waiting list, decided to allocate apartments, they issued decrees on apartments. On the basis of the decrees, the tenants lived in those flats for an indefinite period of time. It's something like that. We're just going back to the concept that was here before November 1989, and I'm convinced it's completely outdone. [[18.50 hours]] The draft law, as the rapporteur has very precise and pregnantly recalled, has undergone significant changes in the basic parameters since the initiation of the review procedure. I will not go back to this in detail, but I just repeat that the law first laid down the obligation to provide social housing for municipalities, later anchored the voluntary participation of municipalities in the form that was submitted, then described a special office falling within the Gesture of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in the final this office was replaced by the State Fund for Development Housing. I was therefore surprised that the figures and documents accompanying the law in the final report on the impact assessment of regulation have not changed nearly all the time despite these significant substantive changes. I therefore consider them highly untrustworthy and the claim that it will be a budgetary neutral law that is incorrect and very dubious. After all, this opinion is confirmed by the rapporteur, the report of the Commission of the Legislative Council of the Government, which questioned the figures prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Obviously, I am not alone in noticing a very disparate target group that is entitled to the so-called allocation of social housing. They are people with different needs and demands, people either long-term unemployed with large debts or executions, which for these reasons will not even pay off legal income, people without work habits or with different addictions. Most of the people in this target group have difficulty getting a job or keeping an apartment. But next to them, they are also seniors, families, or people who are unemployed only temporarily. I agree with the statement by the Commission of the Legislative Council of the Government that these differences in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs material are not listed and are not being worked with, although the nature of the housing problem of the individual sub-groups as well as the potential and willingness to address these problems vary considerably between these groups. I therefore also understand the disputes that have been shown here in full nudity, which lead from the very beginning above the concept of this law mainly two resorts, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Regional Development. It is really necessary to openly tell who the government wants to give out apartments to. I believe that many of those that Minister Marksová and her colleagues often talk about do not want to move anywhere, nor do they need to. These are often people who just want financial assistance. For this, some existing at least concept of the housing allowance serves quite well, whose parameters we can, of course, continue to talk about. It is clear to me that, above all, setting up the housing supplement has started an unprecedented business with poverty and business with flats of this type. Of course, many seniors, low-income families or so mentioned single moms also belong to the group of these tenants. I can't imagine these people moving into social homes, where they'll be living with troubled tenants from excluded localities, relapsers or active drug users who are also supposed to get social housing. I therefore agree with the view presented here that the target group is too broad, and I fear the consequences that the law may have for some current beneficiaries of the housing allowance. The municipalities have a key role to play in the proposed social housing system and must logically play a role. For them, the proposal is at first sight more lenient than in all previous versions. Their participation in the system is to be so-called voluntary, and if the municipality decides not to engage, the state will take its place through the State Housing Development Fund. The law here speaks of a so-called backup system. The municipality creates a social housing fund which corresponds to the number of persons entitled to support and the social housing system. If the municipality does not have or is not in a separate capacity to allocate sufficient number of flats from its ownership in its territory, it is obliged to ensure a sufficient number of flats in the form of a grant contract for an apartment to a social housing fund with other natural or legal persons. Voluntary involvement of the municipality - I would also like to stop there. Government, virtually. Minister Marksová presents the proposal as a compromise. According to her, it's a concession to municipalities. I'm afraid it's just some sort of tactical and temporary legislative veil, a legislative, let's say, darkness that's supposed to hide the real objective of the law. I would like to remind you that, after the government's meeting in February of this year, several representatives of the government coalition said that the law would start a de facto pilot project, and the municipalities will still have to participate in the future. I also recall Secretary Marksová' statement, which in January in a radio interview warned the municipalities about the consequences of their decision to stay out of the social housing system. In essence, it indicated to the municipalities, which was also remembered that they would be built by the state without their knowledge and without their consent. Unfortunately, it's not going to be easy with funding either. At the same time, providing sufficient funding should be the main incentive for municipalities to start providing social housing in accordance with the law. The law is quite general in this and refers to the so-called compensation. At the same time, municipalities are required to draw funding on the reconstruction and construction of apartments. However, the conditions for the functioning of the compensation are not laid down in the Act, it refers only to the Government Decree. I note that this does not create stable conditions for the financing of social housing for municipalities, because government regulations, as we know, can change at any time. At this point, we do not know exactly how the flow of finance will be directed, what conditions will be laid down for the municipalities and when the municipalities will be able to draw compensation. The explanatory memorandum does not indicate or quantify the anticipated involvement of municipalities, which will certainly not be negligible, nor does it indicate other expected costs resulting, for example, from the enormous increase in the administration. The wage costs for the performance of the tasks of the municipality in the technical management of the social housing fund, overhead costs and non-investment expenditure on routine maintenance and repair are not calculated. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] Due to the limited number of available apartments owned by many municipalities, it is clear that private apartments must also come to the social housing fund. But the question is, why should privates do it? Although the municipality will pay the owner a fee for providing the apartment, if the fee is not higher than the market rent, I do not have a clear incentive for the housing owners to participate in the social housing system, nota bene in a situation where flats are to be distributed to problem tenants who are in danger of destroying the apartment in the foreseeable future. If, on the contrary, this fee is higher, there will undoubtedly be a distortion of the market. Personally, I therefore have great doubts as to whether a sufficient number of flats can be obtained, especially in large cities. Another will, of course, be the situation in the poorer regions of the Czech Republic, in areas with high unemployment, where rents are already low today. It amazes me that the petitioners do not deal with these specific impacts at all. No one says either, and it has already been suggested here what the municipalities that own the apartments have to do, but they have them mostly occupied tenants, how the community will release the apartments, where the current tenants will move.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u52	I'll ask for some peace in the room. I know it's advanced class. But you can't hear the lecturer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It seems to me that all these conditions are not really designed for municipalities to actively enter the social housing system. Perhaps lawmakers are aware of this, as there is no indication of the number of municipalities that could be involved in the system. I would have guessed that the municipalities wouldn't be a percent more than ten percent. Above all, I am returning to the original question, whether we need the law in this form, as it was presented, at all. Municipalities are already effectively spending considerable resources, including through state budget funds or through subsidies, to build social housing. Homes for seniors. We have asylum houses and other types of social services that can be further developed with the help of additional funding. Because I'm aware that I have two or three more pages to read and it's seven o'clock, so I'd end my own activity now, interrupt. [[with laughter]] Excuse me? [[Member Okleštěk in front of the counter to the speaker: There is still a microphone.]] I know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u54	I'll ask my colleagues not to address the speaker directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u55	I know there's a microphone. This means that I would interrupt my speech now with the fact that I will sign up later when we continue the next general debate on this House of the Press. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-003-071.u56	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for now. And since it is 19.01. I am interrupting this meeting, I am ending this meeting and the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies will continue on Wednesday 12. 4th at 9.00 according to approved programme item 234. Thank you, everyone, and have a good evening.
