ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u1	220. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism (Warsaw, 16 May 2005) /German press 1012/ - first reading I ask the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán to present this press for the government. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the proposal is therefore a proposal to approve the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism, which is a relatively older date, already on 16 May 2005. We have not signed it until 15 November 2016 as the last Member State of the Council of Europe, and we are also among the last ten countries that have not yet ratified the Convention. Even in view of the current security situation, I believe it is extremely desirable for us to eliminate this deficit and ratify the Convention as quickly as possible, which does not require any further changes to our legal order, since we have made the necessary changes together recently and today our legal order is fully in line with this Convention. So I ask for support and, at the same time, given that it seems to me that it should not come to any big debate, I propose that the deadline for second reading be reduced to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u3	Thank you, Minister. However, this must be repeated in the debate. I suppose that's what's gonna happen. Now, the rapporteur, Jiří Mihola, will take up his intelligence report. [[Intel from the diaper.]] Oh, I'm sorry. I understand. Verifiers draw oral interpelations. Let's wait. And now please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister Pelikán has basically said all the important things here. I think it is very important that the Czech Republic, when it remains the last one, joins the ratification because there is not much need to talk about the problem of terrorism and the negative effects associated with it, but it is necessary to face it and sign the treaty. I recommend this convention here for discussion in the Foreign Committee and recommend that we shorten the negotiations for 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open the general debate in this Treaty at first reading, with the first Mr Karel Fiedler registered, Mr Pavel Kováčik will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u6	Thank you for the floor. I just have a quick question for the Minister. What he said in the opening words, I was impressed by the time delay. Why? What were the causes of the Czech Republic's accession to the Treaty after so long, and why are we to confirm this now - you say last November? Why is there such a long delay? This issue has been addressed for a long time, why are we the last country to sign it and one of the last ten, as you have spoken, which is yet to ratify? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u7	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Mr Pavel Kováčik now. A colleague, Leo Luzar, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, we are on a subject that is moving and will for a very long time be moving through the waters of the debates in Parliaments, i.e. European ones. The point is whether we are just going to talk about terrorism academically and here and there, we are going to say that there has been a situation somewhere again where we gave terrorists a chance to express ourselves, or that we are also going to talk about the ways in which we, through what methods and, in our case, by what legal measures we will actually face this terrorism. I would like to ask colleagues and colleagues in other political parties as well as representatives of the Government of the Czech Republic whether consideration of active measures against terrorism, but also of passive measures to counter terrorism, leads in such a way that we also have targets or potential, i.e. potential targets of terrorist attacks in the Czech Republic, and we must not be calmed down by this: but it is far away, it does not concern us, it does not come to us, we will not participate anywhere that should, for example. so-called The Islamic State or other organizations, whose primary principle of combating terrorism is to activate against the Czech Republic in some way. My question is whether we are preparing both active and passive protection measures e.g. Constitutional institutions - governments, Castle, Parliament, i.e. Houses, Senate, some ministries, especially those against which these attacks could lead, but also authorities, railway stations, e.g. airport atp. In recent weeks, I have taken some initiative after an attack on the British Parliament has been waged that it is worth protecting the Czech Parliament in some way. I have even taken the initiative because the relevant laws have been prepared, or the proposals have been prepared, that something like this could happen here for preventive reasons, something like a protection or security zone, which is common in parliaments or around parliaments and other constitutional institutions in other countries of the European Union, that could also be implemented in our country. And so I ask whether it was just a scream that we continue to fear, given that it is before the elections, to concretate in some way, or whether we are waiting for any attacks against Czech constitutional institutions to come, or whether it is a specific activity that is meant to function actually preventively against acts of terrorism in the Czech Republic. For the last time in the last few days, I believe, for a long time, we have witnessed an attack on the Saint Petersburg subway. Therefore, I would say that it is not only necessary to express my condolences to the victims, relatives of the victims and the city and the state concerned, but that it is necessary to do everything in order for the tiny - in quotation marks I say small - that is, the partial victory of the terrorist way of dealing with humanity ended, after all, for example. by actively protecting these transport hubs, these potential targets, which are unfortunately in the European space, against which the terrorist war is particularly waged. Unfortunately, this is how we must defend ourselves in the European area. It is not about building police walls somewhere, becoming a police state, but it is about being able to respond, having the appropriate tools to do so, and really being able to talk seriously about it, without prejudice, without fear of any abuse by internal political opponents, so as to make it clear in the election campaign that terrorism cannot be retreated, that acts of terrorism must be put in the way of obstacles and that, above all, preventive action must be taken against acts of terrorism. Otherwise, those interventions will become more frequent and more frequent and that those for whom terrorism is the main method of fighting will feel that they can afford anything, and that even in some fields they can also win. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u9	Thank you. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, then Mr Leo Luzar, duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u10	Good noon, basically. Thank you for the floor. I'm joining in with what the previous speaker here said through you. I think that in the committees and bodies of the House dealing with this problem, that is where I am paying attention. I am not one of the Members who is afraid to specify these things. I appeal to all Members in this House not to see this problem politically, but indeed to the lives of us, our fellow citizens, our families. And let me just briefly point out that if we're going to, for example, the activities of Military Intelligence and Protection Services to mediate and show on television what tasks they perform, so this will certainly not contribute to the fight against terrorism in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u11	Thank you, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Leo Luzar is now speaking. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen. We have two points in front of us that work seamlessly under the terms of the contracts, which is why the proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days. These are Council of Europe's treaties on the prevention of terrorism and implementing regulations on the prevention of terrorism. Let us say that these topics are presented to this House slightly late. We are somewhat driven, in my opinion, to accept this prevention of terrorism in the practical implementation of our laws after the last attacks that are taking place in Europe, and we are faced with it quickly. I confess that citizens are concerned about terrorism. That's what I think you're all feeling and seeing the problem. And the European Union - now I do not blame our government, our Minister - has, in my opinion, made the last year rapid, sometimes chaotic steps to calm public opinion before the ongoing wave of terrorism, which is unprecedented and which is taking place in Europe from north to south. If he's an egg or a hen, we could argue about what's causing it and what's the result of the terrorist wave that's coming. But crime prevention, terrorism prevention is on the agenda. Because I wouldn't separate crime from terrorism. Because if we talk about terrorism - and we had a law here, where we talked about the definition of terrorism for a long time, and what is already terrorism and what is not terrorism, what is an ordinary crime and how to proceed with these actions - it is quite a big problem how to grasp this material from the perspective of the Czech Republic. We have been witnessing and are constantly witnessing that Europe is pushing us, without us, to agree to this or to discuss it, to some resolutions and conclusions that our public does not agree with. I would like to remind you of the arms regulation law. A clear and loud opposition to this law came across the political spectrum of this House. Nevertheless, the European directive came into force, which was voted by a majority, including by a collegial majority of the ANO colleagues in the European Parliament, which is part of the faction which is currently under the rule of the European Parliament. And our citizens feel strongly negative about it. I am concerned that this convention will not put us in the same role as the negative messengers of bad news about preventing terrorism as the European Union's directive on arms control in the future. It can easily happen to us that today, under the impression that no terrorist attack on the territory of the Czech Republic has occurred, we will take that as not really affecting us. The European Union wants us to adopt a resolution, a convention on the prevention of terrorism, without considering its content. I'm going to go back to the basic, to the content, or to what we can imagine under that term, the Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. It is what Europe is experiencing today and every day. Exceptional situation in France, which has been going on for over a year. I think that before the attacks in Paris at the Satir Weekly Newspaper, we all remember who we had the opportunity to visit the beautiful Paris, the military patrols walking around the Eiffel Tower. Three men, one at the front, two of his cover from behind, so they could advance and be covered up with each other to raise fear of attacking Paris with terrorists. On the contrary, in order to impress tourists - come to Paris, it is safe here. Before these terrorist attacks came. What followed? In preventing terrorism, almost all of Europe has sent soldiers into the streets. We, too, have witnessed the massive deployment of forces and means here in Prague, when soldiers armed with machine guns in bulletproof vests walked on the Charles Bridge. The difference between France and France was noticeable. In France, they were in formation one in the front, two covering him at a distance of about five meters. In our home, soldiers walked in a friendly conversation, machine gun casually thrown by their side, and perceived the beauty of the mother of Prague. Yes, this too is the view of terrorism from the valley of the Czech regions, when we perceive that this is not so far related to us. But I think the opposite is true. That it's not just about us yet. And when I return - and here my previous speakers recorded me - to the situation that has now occurred in London, an attack on Parliament. And it was an attack on Parliament, let somebody think it was a coincidence. No, it was a political attack on the seat of democratic power of a democratic state. That there was no death of any Member, in my opinion, nor did anyone assume that of those who planned it. It was a demonstration of something. On the other hand, it has become clear that the security forces have not worked correctly and have not been able to evacuate the PM from this place correctly. That is why I am very interested, and it is a pity that the Minister of the Interior is not here, as is the practice of evacuate Parliament, for example. How is the premier's evacuation training going, which is here, and there would be such an attack as would be progressed. Recently in the media, there were a series of articles deriding the President of the Republic and his efforts to secure Prague Castle's protective frames. How come those poor tourists have to stand in line for five, ten minutes to get to Prague Castle? None of the journalists wrote that this is common practice in many countries threatened by terrorism. And now I'm not going to talk about Israel, where the frames are perhaps everywhere in places where there is more concentration of civilians, in houses of commerce, and so on. Even this is the prevention of terrorism that we don't think about, which we don't perceive, but it should be here. I'm going back to our famous legislature. If he was still living in a building near Wenceslas Square, it is one building located in the heart of the city. When we moved out of here, there were radio stations, which I'm not afraid to call for their broadcast profile for certainly problematicly annoying about certain countries they were broadcasting for. And when the threats of a terrorist attack came, the traffic was reduced, roadblocks stood up, a last-fought transporter arrived, which still crashed along the way to protect this building and create a so-called security zone around this building. I ask, what is the general prevention of attacking strategic buildings in the Czech Republic? Now I'm not talking about nuclear power, nuclear power, even if this is where it might be. I'm sure that's what the experts would like to tell me about how the nuclear power plant is protected. But the attack is, let's say, a percentage significantly smaller than, for example, a large gathering of citizens here in Prague. And it doesn't have to be tomorrow, next week, next month, maybe even a year, but we have to count on it to prevent terrorism. And since I am interested in this professionally and my alma mater at the Faculty of Security Engineering in Ostrava is quite intensively involved, I have been going through the surroundings of this honourable Parliament. I don't know enough Prague to be able to identify and browse other objects, but I've been through this system of buildings and I've found some pretty serious security issues. Most of the attacks in today's Europe took place using vehicles. Now I'm not talking about trucks entering the crowd, even here, you could apply these things. But I'm talking about vehicles filled with explosives, common chemicals available in the form of fertilizers, from which, at the appropriate ratio, can be mixed with quite an interesting stirrup, placed in a delivery car, which is driven by a man dressed in fitters. And a car like that, if you parked in, like, House Street... What can cause an explosion of such a car, like right under the windows of this hall? How will security respond? How is he rehearsed, as we saw in the English Parliament, to slap the Prime Minister under his arm and drag him out of this hall? Is there an evacuation vehicle waiting somewhere, or is there a heliport somewhere to take him to safety? How will it be progressed? Do we have these preventive methods of counter-terrorism that can meet us like this? [[A voice from the diaper.]] Yes, from the right part of the spectrum, it was said that the Prime Minister might even be stolen. Some may be, but I don't think there is a need to make light of the situation that currently exists in Europe, even if it avoids the Czech Republic. [[11.30 hours]] I'll go back to describing the current situation. I'm sure you've noticed how many backpackers go around these buildings. Without there being any overview of what these tourists have in that backpack. How many homeless people are wandering around kneeling at suitable places and asking tourists to contribute to the social security of homeless people. How does security work here? Now, in general, how does this security situation in the Czech Republic work in the framework of the prevention of terrorism? Aren't we just halfway into it that it doesn't concern us? Like here on this convention on the prevention of terrorism, which we still have to accept, because Europe is pushing us to accept it, and let us get this over with quickly, 30 days, it will go quickly. There is no need to give any exceptions to this, no need to adopt any accompanying opinions, etc. It's what we're asked to do, isn't it? So let's think about it. There's been an appeal about Parliament's security. I'll sign for it. Because what's happening around these buildings right now has nothing to do with security. There's really enough here when a car breaks down on an access road around Parliament or in the House, and you've got a blocked complex evacuation traffic here from this place, no one gets out, security files, rescue systems, firemen collapse here. They can't get through here. And now I'm not talking about a terrorist attack, I'm talking about a common, excuse me, a common fire that could arise here. It leaves us cold, because what if somebody happens to take it up and put it in the paper that we want to... And this is how we approach the prevention of terrorism. This is how we approach these questions today and every day. Until something happens. And I'm worried that something might happen, and then we all screamed, how come we didn't do anything? But it'll be our fault too. Therefore, I would very much like us to discuss these two points properly, i.e. without shortening. To deal with them from the point of view of security. This means, not only to be allocated to the foreign committee, but also that the committees that have security in their sense should be dealt with very closely, and that under this Convention they prepare a project to secure buildings and to secure a circle of interest areas that may be in the interest - I do not want to say terrorists, but well, criminals and terrorists who could attack the infrastructure of the Czech Republic. And not only economic but also political. I will be very happy if these activities are written somewhere, they will be mapped and the materials will be prepared for us, if by any chance some crazy head invented that it wanted to attack the Czech Republic, for whatever reasons, we had the prevention really prepared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u13	I thank Mr Leo Luzar for his speech. Now, with Mr Petr Bendl's point of fact, I expect that the rapporteur, who will have a procedural proposal, is likely to come forward in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just remind those of you who will discuss this in the committee responsible, this material, that we have 20 miles in the state budget to prevent crime. Crowns. Which really shows that this is an important priority, prevention of crime in the Czech Republic. And if you put it in context with this, it might be an interesting reading, an interesting discussion. I think that the Czech Republic has basically resigned from crime prevention, that it is not in principle taking place and it is more like a small bear to someone who wants to solve problems in the millions of crowns, maybe hundreds of thousands in individual municipalities. But in order for it to have some real impact, it certainly doesn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u15	Thank you, Mr Petr Bendl, for keeping time on the point of fact. And I ask - with the rapporteur's procedural proposal, he will probably read the shortening. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u16	I would like to request a reduction of the time limit for discussion to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u17	Thank you to the rapporteur. I'm asking who's next in the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. I'm sorry, Minister, in the debate, or is the final word? I missed it, and I apologize to my colleague Fiedler, because when I said I was finishing the debate, I saw him logged in. So I apologise to the whole House, we continue the debate with Mr Fiedler's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've been waiting to see if the Minister will speak in any debate. I didn't want to wait until the final word, so I applied at the last minute, so maybe that's why you didn't see it. I looked into the House press of 1012 and 1013 that had something to do with it. This item is called the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention of Terrorism. I suggest you, colleagues, take a look at this, too. You will find that the prevention of terrorism is actually the classification of the evaluation of various crimes, complicity, preparation. Rather, this is a legal matter, and there is very much lack of some real prevention against preventing terrorism from creating such acts. When I read the House document, I found there rather, or only how we would criminally judge certain steps. But, Minister, I found very little on prevention there. So I have a question of how this will actually contribute to the real prevention that is being mentioned there, which is merely apologizing. I will read to you, colleagues and colleagues, some of the passages from the House press. The purpose of the Convention is to increase the efforts of the Parties to prevent terrorism and its negative effects. The Convention makes the introduction of certain intentional acts, that is what I was talking about, which could lead to the commission of terrorist acts as criminal offences. That's where the consequences are. So when I look at it, I see only criminal rates or criminal evaluations of the consequences. Don't be mad at me, Minister. I don't see almost anything about prevention. It has 32 articles, it is not that long, look at it, colleagues, also and you will find out what I have discovered, I will confess that only now in discussing this House press as I have. I dare say, or I have a question for the translator. What difference does it make if we accept it? Here I see that it was sometimes from 2007 - 1 June 2007 that 37 Member States of the Council of Europe ratified it. So we didn't ratify it for ten years, nothing happened. What's gonna change when we ratify it? I'm not saying no, but I don't think anything's gonna change, co-workers and co-workers. Only what the Dawn colleagues have partly proposed will change, some legal evaluation of crimes related to the committing of terrorism. But effective prevention, prevention against terrorist attacks and terrorism will not change at all, and it is not even in this press. It's a classic paper from Brussels. Empty paper about nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u19	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler, there is a factual remark from Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. We're still open to debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u20	Thanks for the word. I think I agree with what has been said here, and quite pragmatically, it really doesn't change much by joining it. But we have to do a job here in the fight against terrorism or prevention. The real job the House has to do. And this is to improve the training of police officers, improve the classroom training base, introduce gate education to schools, etc., etc. So the fact that we're gonna agree to this now is that I don't have a problem with it at all, but we have a lot of work to do. Because what Europe is doing here, we need to take care of our needs and deal with this problem as citizens expect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u21	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. There is yet another factual comment by Mr Gabal. Before she comes to the speaker's desk, I announce that Mrs Kailová votes with a replacement card 72. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u22	Thank you. I've only been very brief. To some of my colleagues, I want to say that the Council of Europe, if I read this well, is not the European Union and does not reside in Brussels. But that's just to the edge. Try reading it sometime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u23	Thank you. I didn't get a chance to say it was really another organization, but more importantly, maybe. I'm asking if there's anyone else involved in the debate. There's no one. No one's checking in. I can therefore conclude the debate again. And the Minister's final word. Please, Minister, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u24	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, I wanted to make a point that this is not a paper from Brussels. This is Strasbourg paper. It's a different organization. It's a regional organization. There are countries like Russia or Turkey. So the Hana, directed at the European Union, is a little out of line here. At the same time, I am glad that some of the outgoing Members have read the convention. It's not always a habit. It's a shame they didn't listen to me when I said we'd done everything that the convention wanted us to do in the meantime. So nothing really changes with us now. But it doesn't change anything in our country because we've done it in advance, not because it's just a worthless piece of paper. This paper is quite important because it actually harmonises criminal sanctions not only for terrorism itself in such a wide region, but also training for terrorism, recruiting terrorists, financing terrorism, i.e. all those preparatory operations. So this is some kind of prevention in a narrower sense, where it targets the preparatory phase and the organisation of terrorist attacks, of course, so that, if possible, the attacks themselves don't happen anymore. And I am pleased that last year we finally joined countries that criminalise this type of behavior effectively and that we are able to participate in this. As for the soft wider prevention, it's not that it's not there at all, it's in Article 3 et seq. We are committed to taking appropriate measures in all areas, including the improvement of the physical protection of persons and equipment, as some colleagues have called for. The last thing I have to say is the answer to the question why it took us so long. I admit I don't know. For those who follow the agenda of international treaties in this House more, they have noticed that I come here quite often and quite often I have come here, I hope I am actually speaking in the past tense, with rather old conventions. When we came to the Ministry, there was just a stack of Council of Europe conventions that the Czech Republic hadn't felt the need to sign up to for ten years, and we were a little embarrassed by the international community. Whether our predecessors were doing this for sloppy or some ideological reason, I don't know, you have to ask them. We're fixing this, and we're doing it in cooperation with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u25	I thank the Minister for the final word. The rapporteur is interested, isn't he interested in the final word? It's not like that. We can therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Does anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u26	Given that this is an international treaty, but after what I have said here, and more or less the Minister has confirmed that there is an evaluation of some facts, I think that the committee that should primarily deal with this is the constitutional committee as a guarantee committee. And if this proposal fails, I'm sure I'm proposing it as one of the committees that should discuss it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u27	I mean, C.E.P. Okay. Let's take a vote. I'm gonna sing. I'll call in colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. We will deal with the commandments first to the Foreign Committee. That is what we will decide in the vote number 160, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment of this press to discuss the foreign committee. [[Mrs Cernochová has a question off the microphone.]] Foreign. [[Mrs Cernoch off the mic: Like a guarantee?]] A guarantee committee, yes. Who's against it? Thank you. It is a 160 vote from 121 Members present for 105, against no one. We will therefore now vote on the constitutional committee proposed by colleague Fiedler. I started voting number 161. I'm asking who's in favour. [[Mrs Černochová is making a comment outside the microphone.]] Who's against it? We're voting now, colleague. [[Ms Černochová off the microphone: Misguided vote.]] Voting number 161 of 122 in favour of 53, versus 38. The motion was not accepted. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u28	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, a mistrial vote. You should have put to the vote first on the counter-proposal of Mr Fiedler, who proposed the Constitutional Committee as a guarantee committee. After that, a foreign committee was to vote. I ask that we repeat these two votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u29	Well, I can't do that because you're wrong, colleague. It's an international treaty, not a law. And according to the Rules of Procedure, it will be used for negotiations on international treaties to negotiate the laws, i.e. the so-called 'laws'. Guarantee committees, just subsidiary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u30	So I would ask you, Mr Vice-President, what would happen if, at this point, you had put your vote on the Foreign Committee as a guarantee if it had also passed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u31	No. I have put to the vote on the proposal from the Organising Committee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u32	That's not what you said. Play the screen recording.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u33	If you object to the President's procedure, suggest it positively and I will have it voted. I said that we would first look at the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion, that the Organising Committee had proposed ordering the proposal for discussion to the Foreign Committee. Then I said if anyone else has a proposal, and colleague Fiedler suggested a committee of constitutional law. And since this is an international treaty, not a law, and I repeat once again that negotiations on international treaties are a separate provision in the Rules of Procedure and a part of the Rules of Procedure, which concerns laws, is used only in subsidiarity, we are not talking about so-called. the guarantee committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u34	During the vote on the Foreign Committee, I asked you if the Foreign Committee was a guarantee committee. You said on the microphone - guarantee. So now, Mr Vice-President, I don't understand. The vote really is confusing. I have no objection to a foreign committee in quotation marks, but in that case, you should reopen the possibility of proposing committees. And next to the committee proposed by colleague Fiedler, constitutionally legal, I, for example. I propose a Security Committee. But please, let's really follow the procedure here. I know it's international agreements, it's a little different. But you weren't entirely explicit in telling us what we were voting on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u35	If you wanted to propose a Security Committee, my colleague, you could have done so at the moment when I asked who was proposing another Committee. I really can't do anything else at this point. If anyone positively proposes that we return to the negotiations on proposals, I can, of course, do so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u36	Yes, I propose that because I did not have the opportunity to vote in the second vote, so I question the second vote and suggest that we return to the proposals so that every member of the legislature can propose a committee that he knows will not be a committee of guarantee, but still wants to discuss it at the plenary of the committee responsible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u37	I'm not having a procedural debate here. I ask Minister Pelikán for a brief speech on the constitutional committee, for example, if you wish to attend it, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u38	Mr President, honourable Members, with all due respect to the Constitutional Legal Committee, I believe that this would be a waste of his time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u39	Okay, thank you. I can therefore reopen the discussion of who has another proposal for this press to be discussed in addition to the draft Organising Committee for discussion in the foreign committee in another committee. A colleague of mine, Černochová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u40	Thank you. I beg you to discuss this with the Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-002-220.u41	Thank you. I shall put it to the vote in order number 162. I'll check you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Calm down, please. Once the number of entries has been settled, I shall begin the vote by order number 162. That is what I have just done, and I am asking who is in favour of discussing the Security Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 162 of the 116 present for 59, against 29. The motion was accepted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Security. I'm done with point 220. Both actors remain at the seats at the rapporteur's table because I'm opening a point.
