ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u1	47. Government bill amending Act No. 64/1986 Coll., on Czech Trade Inspection, as amended, and Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended /German press 995/ - first reading We interrupted this item on 1 February at the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and the general debate was interrupted. So I will now ask the Minister to speak on this point, if necessary, for the introduction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, at the previous 54th meeting of the PSP of the Czech Republic on 1 February, a government bill on the Czech Trade Inspection Act and the Consumer Protection Act was included on the agenda of the meeting. Unfortunately, the Government's proposal was not negotiated at first reading due to the interruption of this meeting. [[It's busy in the hall.]] As I mentioned last time, the main objective of the amendment to the Czech Trade Inspection Act is to establish effective instruments applicable to the fight against dishonest commercial practices of sellers, which the Czech Trade Inspection can currently not adequately control. These instruments include, in particular, the incorporation of the powers of inspectors to request information from entities involved in the domain chain on the identity of e-shop operators involved in infringements and to ensure access to restricted areas where, in particular, dangerous products are proven to be present, to act under a changed identity. Last but not least, a more detailed regulation is proposed in relation to control purchases and also very important changes in relation to other legislation already adopted, such as the Act on Liability for Misdemeanors and Procedure. honourable Members, I would like to stress first of all that the aim of the proposed bill is to allow the COI to exercise control in areas where unfair commercial practices are often applied to consumers by dishonest sellers and where the possibilities of exercising state supervision are greatly limited. Our ambition is certainly not to transform the Czech Trade Inspection into a new security component. After all, the proposed legislation does not allow such a thing. This sets clear limits on the new competences proposed. It should be noted that the exercise of state supervision and thus the enforcement of law must be developed hand in hand, along with the development of new commercial practices on the consumer market. The State is obliged to provide consumers with adequate protection on the market. This ultimately means protecting not only consumers themselves but also honest entrepreneurs. Finally, allow me again to submit a proposal to shorten the examination of the draft law in committees by 30 days. The reason for this proposal is, above all, the fact that the effectiveness of the bill submitted is proposed as of 1 July 2017, this is in line with the effectiveness of the Act on Liability and Procedure for Misdemeanors. At the same time, by urgently strengthening the ČOI's powers, we will ensure effective protection of our consumers earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, I am asking you to release the bill to second reading and I believe that some of the questions raised at the previous meeting will be discussed and clarified and that any doubts regarding the intention pursued by this proposal will be completely removed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask the rapporteur if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. We're glad to have her here. So she's not interested, she said everything when we first started this point. We will therefore continue with the interrupted general debate in which Members have come forward - there are probably no applications for the general debate at this point. With priority rights, Mr President Laudat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u4	Thank you. Not with priority, but if no one checks in. I am only warning you about this press and reminding you that it is the material that came here some time ago to defend Minister Mládek and where the really serious paragraph is meant, which allows the Czech Trade Inspection to change the identity of the so-called scumbags and their controls, which is a matter that is very discussed with the highest and most needed security forces at the top, secret services, etc. Here to chase with forgiveness some people who, for example, abuse pensioners and so on the paprikas, will be able to have a huge, huge competence. I warn against it because there must be some principle of proportionality. And what the government has put here, not that we are already discussing this, and maybe it will be taken out at second reading or by an amendment. But how can the government afford this? I don't know if they're even reading the material they're voting for anymore. But I consider the construction of such a cop state very dangerous, very exploitable. [[12.40 hours]] I watched the debate on Czech Television this morning, and I was not surprised to hear the speech by the Czech Trade Inspection Press Spokesperson, stating that the basic argument is that in some kind of intervention they locked the inspector for an hour before the police arrived in the warehouse. I'd ask if they'd lock the inspector in one way or another if he had a changed identity. I think, Minister, if you have so much honor for the rest of your mandate - because Mr Sobotka, obviously, it wasn't about operators, but about offering a newsstand before the convention negotiations - whether you have so much honor and withdraw this shameful amendment, let your successor come here with a reworked, at least without the section. I understand that you might not care anymore, but that you can possibly remove it here at second reading. However, I don't think you've paid any attention to it, but you really don't mean that. I'm smiling here, but it's not that funny. And I would very much warn against it. The coalition has pushed through a large number of dangerous things that are easily exploitable, and, of course, before the election, you will argue that nothing is going on at all, yet you can see that it is not being abused. I could serve you here from Prague's real estates before the time when a gentleman on Smíchov was also preparing something for a certain time, and only in the following period did he take advantage of it in quotation marks. I'm making a motion to dismiss this law in the first reading. If that's not the case, it won't go away, it'll be a motion to rework. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u5	Mr. Ambassador, you've already proposed a refund of the motion. 2. and the Rules of Procedure should be the first to vote. I take it you're giving the second vote now and we're going to vote gradually as the Rules of Procedure presume. Anyone else interested in the general debate? The Minister is reporting in a general debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u6	I would like, through Mr President, to tell President Laudát that the withdrawal of the proposal for a government law is not in my competence, because it is a government proposal. He obviously knows, so I assume it was a joke. I would like to hope that all the problems will be resolved in the committee meeting, because it is undignified for me to say that the problem is that the scumbags are selling some paprika to some pensioners, and I think it is undignified for this courtroom, so I would ask you to reject the proposals to withdraw this law and reject it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u7	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else wants to get out. Mr. Laudát. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u8	I'm not debugging it, but if there's a Vice Prime Minister here building his half-private army in customs service, someone at the MIT is gonna build another army or security file, where do you want to end up? I'm sorry, but I'm interested, for example, in assuming that this is going to pass, and given that it's in the Ministry of Industry and Trade, it's going to go to the Economic Committee, and I'm going to be very happy to have the COI's leadership there. I'm going to ask a lot of them to prepare ahead of time, if they have sophisticated algorithms for their activities, how do they deal with crisis situations that they call on and do joint actions with the police, how can they possibly lock up an inspector somewhere, even though he obviously didn't have a hidden identity? So why does it take someone to come and rescue a man, whether, in that particular case, why it takes the police an hour, whether a service card has been presented in that particular case, whether a criminal complaint has been filed against the person concerned. You know, the fact that someone is locking someone up, threatening their safety, take it that if - I don't know whose warehouse or shop or premises it was - a fire broke out there, the person in question would burn to death. I've had this kind of lockdown at Smíchov in ODS at the beginning of the last decade. I wasn't the one locked up on the balcony. But in that context, there was a very interesting discussion about what would happen if a fire broke out, who would then be responsible for someone locking up at an uncomfortable person's meeting so that he couldn't go down and vote. So the locked ones, they're not just business inspectors, but they're a whole bunch of people elsewhere. However, quite seriously. I think I'm gonna ask, and I'd like to, and I'm gonna demand that the C.I.I.O.'s board come to the hearing and explain how it actually works. Because if she's such a cowgirl... They must already know when they're going into trouble control, when they're not going to trouble control. Every institution, especially when it comes to where the risk of violence can arise, the risk of harm and so on, it's unpleasant matters, force interventions, so maybe they should have algorithms to be safe. But giving competence over this issue... I know that the COI also makes much more demanding events, just selling, detecting warehouses, copies of products and so on, it's millions, it's not the paprikas, I'm aware of that. But perhaps that's where the Police of the Czech Republic should interfere with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual point, Mr Pilný is registered. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would certainly like to say that the opening of the Czech Trade Inspection Act is not a question of the police state, but it is a question of consumer protection. It's a good thing the law's open. His text may not be quite satisfactory, but there will certainly be a big discussion. But in a number of cases, the Czech Trade Inspection function as a completely toothless tool, and something needs to be done about it in the interests of the citizens of this country and in the interests of consumer protection. So I certainly do not support the proposal that this law be withdrawn or reworked. It is a good thing that he will go to committees, and it is a good thing that there will be a discussion. A number of citizens of this country are calling for this, and that's right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u11	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in this section in the general debate. If not, I will end the general debate and ask the Minister if he is interested in the final word. It's been done. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to remind you that six Members have spoken in the debate overall, a proposal has been made for a return to recast, a proposal to reject this amendment of the law and, of course, a reduction in the deadline for 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u13	I thank you and we will proceed to the vote on the proposals. First of all, let me read the apology of Mr Jaroslav Holík, who asks for an apology from today's meeting from 12.30 to the end of the negotiations for working reasons. I'll check you all out, and I'll ask you to rejoin your voting cards. We'll wait for the number of votes to settle. First of all, we will vote on President Laudát's proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 152, 102 Members registered, for 13, against 75. This proposal was rejected. [[12.50 hours]] We will also vote on President Laudát's motion to reject the proposal in the first reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of rejecting the motion to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 153, 102 Members registered, for 13, against 82. Nor has this proposal been adopted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? I do not see any such proposal, so we can proceed directly to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask, who is the guarantee committee on behalf of the Committee on Economic Affairs? Who's against it? This is a 154 vote, 104 Members signed up for 102, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Does anyone else have a suggestion that we propose this press to a committee other than an economic committee? Mr. Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u14	Thank you. Last time, there was a surprise here and left about the paragraph of the amendment, and it was said by the Social Democrats that they had to take a good look at it. I think it concerns the issue of defence and security. [[Unclear in plenary.]] No, the Security Committee, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u15	So you're proposing security and defence committees as the next committee, so two committees. [[No objections.]] Does anyone else have a proposal in this regard? [[He doesn't.]] So we will vote gradually on these proposals. First, we will vote on the commandment as the next committee of the Security Committee. I'm opening the vote. I ask who is for the commandment of this press to the Security Committee. Who's against it? Voting number 155, 104 Members registered, for 23, against 66. This proposal was not adopted. We will now vote on the Commandment of the Defence Committee. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? Voting 156, 105 Members registered, for 12, against 73. This proposal has not been adopted. I therefore say that no other committee has been ordered. With priority rights, Mr President Laudat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u16	Thank you. The fact that the Social Democrats are not Democrats in many ways does not surprise me so much in the Czech version. The YES movement does not know what it is, or maybe it knows too well what it is preparing after about 21 October of this year. But I would ask you to stop lying to people. Tell people what you're doing here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Furthermore, in the general debate on 1 February, a proposal was made to shorten the deadline for discussing this proposal in committees by 30 days, i.e. to 30 days. The Minister has also joined this proposal today. We will therefore vote on the reduction of the deadline for committee discussions to 30 days and, at the request of the Chairman of the ČSSD, I will sign you all out. The number of votes seems to have stabilized. I therefore put to the vote on a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 157, 106 Members entered, for 33, against 40. This proposal was not adopted. This has dealt with all the votes on this point, and I am ending this point and ending the first reading of the press. Mr. Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík has now signed up with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to respond to the question asked by Mr Štětina this morning about any possible threat to public health linked to the leak of radioactive substances that have been measured above our territory. And I can assure you that there is currently no danger for the residents of the Czech Republic. I've had it checked by the department of the Chief Hygiene in cooperation with the State Institute for Nuclear Safety. And here's the thing: the situation that took place at the beginning of February 9th in Flamanville, France, is unpleasant, but there was no leak of radioactive material and the reactor was not affected. Every situation that happens at the site of a nuclear power plant must be taken very seriously. However, it is true that during January European laboratories began to detect positive values of iodine 131 activity in the air at some of their sampling points. The first information on increased values came from Norway and I-131 detection was reported in other countries of Europe, including the Czech Republic. According to the State Institute for Nuclear Safety, these are very low values detectable only because of the combination of large-volume sampling facilities with a long collection period, the sampling period lasted for a whole week, and sensitive detection techniques with high-efficiency detectors and long-term measurement periods. Simply put, this is a very small amount of evidence of our very good ability to detect danger, which can certainly be considered a very good report. The measured values - and I stress this - are not significant from the point of view of public health threats. In no way can they threaten human health in this amount. And if we wanted to, attention from this point of view would produce values that would be up to a million times higher. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u19	Thank you, Minister. Furthermore, with priority rights, the President of Montenegro. I remind all those who report any factual comments that there is no debate, I cannot give you the floor. Only priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u20	Thank you for the floor. I just want to thank the Minister for his information. We get a lot of questions, messages are from both sides, so we wanted information directly from you and thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-007-047.u21	Thank you. And I'm opening point number
