ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u1	39. Government bill amending Act No. 198/2009 Coll., on equal treatment and legal means of protection against discrimination and on the amendment of certain laws (anti-discrimination law), as amended, and other related laws /German press 688/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by Minister Jan Chvojka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you today a government bill amending Act No. 198/2009 Coll., on equal treatment, on legal means of protection against discrimination and on the amendment of certain laws, hereinafter known as Anti-discrimination Act, and other related laws. The aim of the proposal is to implement European Union law, namely Directive 2014/54/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights conferred on workers in connection with their free movement. The directive deals with the protection of the rights of EU workers and their family members. European Union workers are citizens of the European Union who use their freedom of movement and residence in the territory of a Member State other than that of which they are citizens, in order to seek and perform work or other economic activities and related activities. In doing so, they must have the same rights as citizens of the Member State where they reside and must not be discriminated against on the grounds of nationality in access to and exercise employment, access to social and tax advantages, housing and access to children's general, apprenticeship and vocational training. As much as this right of EU workers to move freely directly from the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, practice in the countries of the European Union still shows that workers from EU citizens and their family members are subject to different treatment and that lack of information and legal and administrative obstacles discourage them from exercising their freedom of movement and residence. That is why the EU has adopted that directive to ensure the procedural protection of the rights of workers before the courts and other bodies, the professional support of non-governmental organisations in individual proceedings and the assistance and support of special bodies which would provide them with information on their rights and obligations and, at the same time, analytically examine the situation of EU workers and recommend improvements. The directive is therefore transposed into Czech law by amending the anti-discrimination law, procedural rules and the Act on the Ombudsman. The fundamental element of the amendment is the amendment to the anti-discrimination law aimed at linking the prohibition of discrimination in the free movement of EU citizens on the basis of their nationality with the prohibition of discrimination in the anti-discrimination law as the main Czech anti-discrimination regulation. EU workers and their family members will therefore be protected from discrimination on grounds of nationality in the Czech Republic as well as other victims of discrimination. The prohibition of discrimination based on nationality will only apply to EU workers in matters where EU law prohibits it, not to all foreigners living in the Czech Republic, in matters relating to them. The next item is the amendments to the Civil Code and the Administrative Code, which are intended to enable EU workers to assist organisations specialising in discrimination on grounds of nationality and the free movement of persons in judicial proceedings. The powers of the institutions in support of the free movement of EU workers and their family members and the equal treatment of them shall be conferred on the Ombudsman, who, by his nature, is closest to the requirements of the directive. The delegation of that authority is both organisationally and financially most advantageous, it is better than establishing a new body. Therefore, the mandate of the protector was chosen as the most appropriate of all aspects. The aim of the proposal is therefore to ensure that all citizens of the European Union, including citizens of the Czech Republic, are able to benefit from their freedom of movement and residence in EU countries without obstacles in accordance with our obligations under EU law. A high-quality uniform level of protection at European level, including the Czech Republic, will benefit all citizens of the European Union, including our citizens at work and living abroad. In conclusion, I would therefore like to ask for the release of this press until further reading, and at the same time I would like to request a reduction in the committee procedure for 30 days. The reason for this is the relative briefness of this proposal and, above all, the need to ensure that the directive is implemented as quickly as possible, as the implementation deadline has already expired and a formal infringement procedure against our Republic has been initiated by the European Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u3	I thank the Minister and now please the rapporteur for the first reading, Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u4	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. As the Minister has already said, press 688, the government's proposal amending anti-discrimination law responds to the disunified legislative regulation and practice of individual Member States of the European Union in implementing European directives enabling citizens of the European Union and their family members to move freely across other Member States and to work in these countries. Their status in these countries should be comparable to those of staff coming from a particular Member State. In fact, in some countries there are increased demands on foreigners, non-recognition of qualifications, knowledge of language and preference of local labour. Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union prohibits discrimination in the field of equal access to employment and provides for the right to equal working conditions and equal access to social and tax advantages. The purpose of the proposal is therefore to apply the directive of the European Union to Czech legislation and, at the same time, to determine the body responsible for monitoring compliance with it. This should be done by the Ombudsman, to whom methodological assistance is to continue to be given in disputes concerning this discrimination, analytical activity and international cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u5	Thank you. And I am opening up a general debate in which Mr Marek Benda first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u6	Mr Vice-President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that this afternoon, it really seems like an extraordinary waste of time for all of us on completely unnecessary standards. We've already had about four here, whose results are zero zero. This is another one. A completely useless, completely unnecessary standard, which, frankly, if we do not discuss or approve a comma from it, will not become this country, its inhabitants, and not even the European Union at all, but nothing at all. I quite understand that this is not the fault of the current minister. Also, if you look at the press, his predecessor is signed by Minister Dienstbier. But something as useless as it is presented here, even in a situation where, in fact, the explanatory report admits and says - in terms of the rights of citizens of other European Union countries, who should be defended here according to European anti-discrimination legislation, we have all the rights to defend them here. We have all the process procedures here, there is no way to improve these process procedures. But only the popular European - what to call it now politely on the premises of this honourable House, so that I don't touch anyone - is the crap that goes to the point that every thing that is being watched by the courts, the authorities and other bodies must have a special body that monitors it and tells European officials some deep truths about how it is or is not respected in the Czech Republic. It's all there is to it. And in addition to the fact that there may still be various non-profit organizations that will draw large money from our or European budgets and watch if we, when there is an employed citizen of the Federal Republic of Germany or the Kingdom of Spain or the Republic of Hungary or something like that, are there any chance that he is not discriminated against. All of this, in a situation where we know well that there is actually a degree of discrimination between our employees in different Western countries, where there are repeated attempts in that, say, old Europe to devise different rules, such as the obligation to respect a single minimum wage and such things as are to actually discriminate against citizens from the eastern part, about language and other barriers, not to mention what we are dealing with today and daily. I really don't know why we're supposed to be talking like this -- it's a very delicate material -- and we're supposed to be accepting at this time at all. I suggest we get him back to the government for rework. They said it's totally necessary. If Europe doesn't need anything, and it doesn't really need anything, it's just this kind of crap, this constant other and other monitoring centers, other and other bodies that are looking out for somewhere - and we're still talking about citizens of the European Union, virtually. the individual Member States of the European Union, I am not bringing refugees into this at all, I am not bringing asylum at all, I am not dragging other things at all, although, of course, in relation to how some states are prepared to grant their citizenship to different asylum seekers, so it applies to them, of course. But that's a completely different question. We are only talking about the extent to which we are acting against the citizens of other Member States. And as I'm saying, the explanatory memorandum itself admits, we have all the procedural procedures here. There's no reason to fix anything. We have all the protection of administrative courts and others. The only thing that is anchored here is that there may be some non-profit organizations that are likely to take care of the rights of the Francouz, Rumun or Bulhar in the Czech Republic, they will ensure that they do not happen to be discriminated against in their employment, and that there will be a special monitoring centre, once again as usual assigned to the Ombudsman. And I understand the logic that it is to be assigned there, but I completely do not understand the logic of why something like this is to be monitored at all, why we need to monitor something like this to make Europe work. These are so useless things and things that make citizens so angry in all European countries that we end up in those Brexits. Because that's exactly what they do all the time, and they employ more and more people just to do senseless, senseless monitoring. I'm really, really asking us to talk about whether these things make sense. And if, when it writes on the European Union standard - and the government has, unfortunately, learned to write it everywhere - all four previous laws have passed the European Union's remark today, the other four also have a remark from the European Union, the experts involved are not only because it did not fit. But somebody tell me what the Military Police have to do with the European Union? Recovery procedures may be possible, experts and interpreters. These are purely national adaptations. - In which one sentence is always pushed to implement a regulation of the European Union and it is said: we must do this because Europe prescribes it to us. This is the same thing. We have a directive and regulation implemented in our legal order. Honestly, if we didn't have it, it's a forceful rule anyway. And the only thing we're creating here is the Ombudsman's monitoring center. This is really completely unnecessary and I consider it unnecessary to burden both the rule of law and this House and these citizens. I suggest we get the government back to work. Whether we come up with this when we really talk about how the European Union is supposed to work and not whether there should be monitoring centres on whether citizens in a foreign state are discriminated against or not to the extent of anti-discrimination legislation today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u7	I thank Mr Benda. With a factual remark, Mr Zdeněk Soukup, President Černoch, with priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will have a very brief factual point, because my colleague Benda has made it easier for me by your means, Mr President. He basically said what I wanted to say. I'm just going to focus on the fact that we were here a long time ago discussing the powers given to the Ombudsman. This time there's an effort to give the job to the Ombudsman. I'll only make one wish. I hope that the Ombudsman's office or the public defender of rights will not begin to swell with this new task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u9	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Black with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the downside is when you go to the mic after a couple of previous speakers, they've actually said everything I wanted to say. With all due respect to the Minister, it's not from his pen, it's crazy from his predecessor's pen. We talked about this the other day. It was a very long discussion about the ombudsman's powers, the Ombudsman's. What Mr. Benda said is true, because we have everything and it only involves another load in the order, which we think works very well at the moment. I would like to make a motion to interrupt the presence of Mrs Šabatová's Ombudsman, because I think that should be the case for this hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking about the Minister's final words. The rapporteur, please. It'll be better at the speaker's desk, yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u12	Colleagues and colleagues, I must say I don't understand you very well. With one breath here, Mr Benda, you are criticizing the treatment of our citizens in the countries of the old European Union that they are not equal, do not have equal working conditions and are subject to much greater demands, on the other hand, you do not agree that a European directive which prohibits similar forms of discrimination should be applied to Czech law. I see the only reason for this, the one to whom the powers of control are to be conferred, and the dislike of this House for a public defender of rights. But also try to think about the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u13	Thank you. The Minister's final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u14	Thank you for the floor. I will respond briefly to the previous speakers, Mr Soukup and Mr Černoch, through the Vice-President. This is a zero increase in the Ombudsman's competences. You all know that the original big amendment, which included, for example, the possibility of giving an anti-discrimination lawsuit or the possibility of giving the Constitutional Court a motion to abolish the law or part of it, I withdrew. This is really about the fact that there should be some monitoring mechanism which, in my opinion, is better to give an existing institution than to introduce a new one. This is about investigating our funds rather than raising some powers. A colleague of Soukup. This is a government proposal, which also means the proposal for which the YES movement voted. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u15	Thank you. After the final words, I note Mr Benda's motion to refer the proposal to the appellant for revision. Isn't that right? [[Yes.]] I'll call our colleagues in the lobby. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We will first vote on Mr Černoch's procedural proposal to interrupt this point in the presence of the Ombudsman. I am opening the vote on Mr Černoch's procedural proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 149-order vote. 106 Members and Members are registered for 29 against 52. The motion was not accepted. We will also vote on Mr Benda's proposal to return the proposal to the applicant for completion. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 150-order vote. 109 Members of Parliament are registered. For 33, against 39, even this proposal was not accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the motion to discuss the petition committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u16	Given that legislation concerning asylum involving foreigners is being discussed by the Security Committee as a standard, I propose that the Guarantee Committee become a Security Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u17	Thank you. This is the counter-proposal that we will be voting on. Another proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore first vote on the counter-proposal proposed by Mrs Černochová to become the Committee on Security on Guarantees. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 151 voting. 111 Members and Members are registered for 29 against 43. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on the motion for a commandment tabled by the motion to discuss the petition committee as a guarantee. That's what I started the vote on. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's serial number 152 voting. The registration is 111 Members and Members, for 96, against 4. The motion was accepted. At the same time, the Organizing Committee proposed to order this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a further committee. Mrs Černochová is reporting, and she wants to propose a Security Committee as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u18	Yes, Mr Vice-President, you read my lips. That's right. As I said in the previous post, the Security Committee is normally dealing with this issue. I don't see any reason why it should be any different in this case. The fact that today there is a strange atmosphere in this Chamber of Deputies, that we are discussing biological weapons here, my colleague will propose that the Committee on Defence and, in particular, the members of the ČSSD are blocking it, which is quite incomprehensible to me. Please respect the practice that has been going on for more than three years, and let us put these things on the committees that are set up to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u19	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. I am right on your lips, Madame. Mrs Hnyková next, with a motion for a commandment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u20	I would suggest that this be discussed in the Committee on Social Policy. When it comes to employees and their conditions, I think it is up to this committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-009-039.u21	If no one has any further proposal, then we will vote first on Mrs Černochová's proposal on the commandment to the Security Committee. That's what I started the vote on. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's order number 153. 114 Members and Members are registered, for 58. The motion was accepted. Another proposal is the proposal for a commandment from the Committee on Social Policy. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 154 entered is 115 Members of Parliament, for 47, against 22. The motion was not accepted. The last vote is a proposal to shorten the time limit by 30 days. - I'm sorry, yes, I'm still voting on the Constitutional Legal Committee. [[17.20 hours]] I am opening the vote on the motion for a commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 155 vote. 118 Members and Members are registered, for 80, against 6. This proposal has also been adopted. The last vote is therefore a vote on the reduction of the deadline to 30 days, as suggested by the Minister. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 156 vote. 118 Members and Members are registered, for 27, against 48. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that the proposal was directed to the Committee on Petitions as a guarantee, to the Security Committee and to the Committee on Constitutional Law. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill. The next item is the item number
