ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. The Organizing Committee of the Chamber of Deputies has set up a draft agenda for the 4th meeting... a moment... Let's keep going. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies set out a draft agenda for the 4th meeting on 30 November 2017. The invitation was sent to you on Friday 1 December t. r. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Now, I'm gonna ask you all to settle down in your seats, sign up with your I.D. cards, and possibly tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr Rais will be voting with replacement card number 2, Mr Juchelka with card number 3, Mr Kolovratník with card number 4, Vice-President Hamáček with card number 1. I've still got someone here with card number five... so I'm gonna extra-dict the log. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I'm gonna ask you once again to settle down in your seats. Thank you. I propose that we appoint a Member Jana Černochová and a Member of Jaroslav Holík. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to identify the verifiers of this meeting. If this is not the case, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposed verifier. Who's against it? Voting number one. 150 Members registered, for 139, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that we have designated the verifiers of the 4th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Ms Jana Černochová and Mr Jaroslav Holík. I now say that by the beginning of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their absence to the meeting: Andrej Babiš - working reasons, Jiří Běhounek - working reasons, Milan Brázdil - personal reasons, Tereza Hyťhová - personal reasons, Věra Kovářová from 14.30 to 17.00 without giving reason, Radka Maxová - health reasons, Ladislav Okleštěk - health reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg - working reasons, Antonín Staněk - working reasons, Lucie Šafránková - health reasons, Petr Třešňák until 18.30 - working reasons, František Vácha - health reasons, Vlastimil Válek - working reasons, Rostislav Vyzula - foreign trip, Jan Zahradník - personal reasons. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka apologizes for foreign travel reasons, Jiří Havlíček for work reasons, Milan Chovanec - health reasons, Michaela Marksová from 16:00 - working reasons, Stanislav Štech - working reasons, Dan Ťok within 15 hours - working reasons, but I see the Minister here, so the apology is cancelled. That's all there is to apologize for the moment. And now we will proceed to the agenda of the 4th meeting, which is proposed on the invitation. I will first introduce you to the proposals on which today's grémium has been agreed. I'm gonna ask you once again to calm down, because there's a lot of these changes. There. First - please do not apply item number 2 of the proposal for a programme, House press 5, medicines that have already been discussed at the 3rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and is therefore unnegotiable - this is not to be voted on. I will also ask you to exclude item 21 from the draft programme, which is House Press 1 - State Final Account. The Grémium also proposes to include new points on the agenda of the 4th meeting: the Government's decision on the crossings and transits of the armed forces of other states through the Czech Republic in 2018, the House's press 14; The proposal to set up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies on OKD, House document 46; Proposal for the election of the Presidents of the Permanent Commissions of the Chamber of Deputies; Proposal for the election of the Heads of Parliament's Permanent Delegation to inter-European Parliamentary Organisations; Draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2018, House printing 25; Agriculture subsidy programmes for the year 2018 provided pursuant to Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, House Press 26. And it is proposed this procedure: Today, on Tuesday, December 12, the first items to discuss election points 10 to 20 of the draft programme. Further discuss points from the block report, proposals and others in order: 22, 23, 24, 25, House prints 4, 6, 7 and 10, and a new point: House printing 14 - flyovers and transits. Then discuss point 3, which is House printing 12 - business in tourism, Act 1st reading, point No. 4, House printing 11 - amendments to the Rotterdam Convention, 1st reading agreement, and a new point - House document 46 - setting up of the OKD Investigation Commission. On Friday, 15 December, we would be the first three items in the meeting to discuss the vote point 9, which is the Proposal for amendments to the composition of the PS bodies, and the new electoral points: the proposal for the election of the Presidents of the permanent PS commissions, the proposal for the election of Parliament's permanent delegations to inter-European organisations. As a fourth item discuss item 1 of the draft programme, House press 2 - state budget, 2nd reading. On Tuesday, December 19, we would be the first item on the agenda to discuss item 5 of the draft programme, House press 2 - state budget, 3rd reading, and further to discuss the points relating to the discussion of the state budget. These are points 6, 7, 8, House prints 3, 8 and 9, and new points - Draft Budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2018, House print 25, Agriculture subsidy programmes for 2018 provided under Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, House Press 26. That's all I have to say about the proposal from the Gremium. You have all listened carefully to this, and I am now asking if anyone is interested in expressing their views on the proposed programme or suggesting some points. At this point, I am registering Mr Leo Luzar's application, which I hereby give the floor to the draft agenda. Mr Mašek votes with replacement card number 6. I don't know if I said. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to place or propose a new item in this meeting as the first item of this day under the title of Government Information on the revision of the Dublin Regulation. [[There's noise in the room.]] Revision of the Dublin Regulation, so-called Dublin IV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u3	I will really ask for peace in the hall because I have a problem understanding the title of the item.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u4	I will repeat this once again: Government information on the revision of the Dublin regulation, so called. Dublin IV. It may have vanished in the general rush of post-election negotiations, but the European Parliament has behaved quite in the Czech Republic's proposals with categorical "not redistribution" and has not worked on these proposals at all. We are simply faced with the fact that, as a small country of the European Union, we are passing away. The meeting of the Council of Ministers is taking place, and I do not know as a Member of the Czech Republic what the position of our government on these actions is, how far our government is prepared, with what mandate we are going to negotiate support between the countries of the European Union for our demands, and I am a little concerned that this mandate does not even exist at the moment. I would therefore like to ask the Government how it is preparing and what steps it is planning in this revision of the Dublin Regulation. I want to point out that there is a so-called a summary of the position of the Czech Republic, which clearly states: As regards the clear negative opinion on the proposed automatic remedy mechanism in the form of automatic relocation of applicants for international protection across Member States, the European Parliament did not reflect this. In other words, what we called on the government to do in the past period and to say that this is not what we would have imagined was accepted. Now we're looking for a partner. The opinion further states: It should be stressed that there is currently no mandate to authorise the competent authorities in the Czech Republic to conduct any negotiations on possible compromise variants. I would like to point out here that, according to the information provided by colleagues from the European Parliament, we have missed the time of the so-called yellow card. We missed the time of the yellow card again. And I want to point out here that we're going into the same problem as the so-called. a gun decree or weapons restrictions that have been discussed and published in the media as a warning example of how we should not act within the European Union. In my opinion, the government has approached these problems a little bit late, so I would like to know the position and the clear steps of the government as to how we will proceed so that we do not get into the same problems and the same tow of events as a weapons decree or amendment within the European Union. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I must join this proposal for the SPD because Dublin IV is a very big problem for the Czech Republic. I do not know if we are all aware of this enough, but most of the political parties in this Chamber of Deputies have their own immigration and asylum policies in their programmes that promised to voters before the elections. Of course, Dublin IV wouldn't pay for any of this. I think we have one of the last options to prevent this from happening, to prevent the European Union project from moving any number of immigrants into the Czech Republic according to the European Union's decision and not the parliament of a sovereign country. I think that would be the end of national sovereignty, national countries. We've heard here that no one has negotiated this in Brussels. On Wednesday, there is - if I have good information - also the Committee on European Affairs, and I would like to ask this Committee on European Affairs to comment on this, to propose a resolution where the Czech Republic gives the veto to discuss the Dublin IV protocol in Brussels. It's one of our last options. So I can conclude by saying that we as the SPD will definitely support this proposal for the current government to comment on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u7	Thank you, Mr President. With a factual remark here, I have Mr Martin's application. I'm asking if it was really an application or just a mistake. It's a mistake, so I'll erase you. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in a performance on the agenda. Vice-President Okamura with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak in support of the proposal to include this item on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. It is fully in line with the programme of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy. I'd just like to point out what they would actually bring or bring in adjustments. The Dublin Convention. The proposal for amendments shall, inter alia: 1. Repeal of the rule that the first safe country to reach the border is responsible for asylum seekers. 2. Account will be taken of the preferences of asylum seekers in which they want to live, when they will be offered four countries which have accepted at least asylum seekers at the time. I would like to emphasise this - paragraph 2. 3. More rapid merger of migrant families. 4. Applicants will be able to register as a group up to 30 people. 5. All Member States of the European Union must participate and bear responsibility for asylum seekers. 6. States that refuse will not have access to the euro funds. This means - by the way, I would like to say that this proposal is, of course, beyond our SPD movement, which we have criticized for the long term and from the very beginning, also expressed Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who said - I quote: A permanent and mandatory migration mechanism will be introduced in future Europe with unlimited numbers. It is true that although we are wading on the belt to protect this piece of our national sovereignty, we have been successful so far, because until now we have been the ones who have decided who can live in Hungary and who can't, but the attack on our sovereignty, which the European Parliament has now committed, is more furious than all before. That means, of course, it's a big problem, and we will definitely vote in favour of the inclusion to discuss the Dublin Convention here in the House. Thank you. And I beg you to understand the support, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u9	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Let me read two apologies. Mr Kaňkovský apologizes from today's day from 14 to 1545 hours for work reasons, and Vice-President Fiala apologizes from 16 to the end of the day for working reasons. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in a performance on the agenda. If this is not the case, we shall proceed to the vote on the various proposals. First of all, we would vote on the proposal from the Gremium. I propose that we vote on the proposal, as I put it here for those three days, with one vote. If there is no objection to this, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal, as it was put forward and how it was proposed by Gremie. Anyone against it? Voting number two. 180 Members are enrolled, 170 against no one, and this proposal has been adopted. We will also vote on Mr Leo Luzar's proposal, which I have briefly described here as the Government's Information on the Dublin IV negotiations, if this is acceptable. As the first item in today's meeting. I see an application for check-out, so I'll grant it. I'm gonna ask you to re-engage. [[After a while of waiting.]] The number of entries has approximately stabilized. [[14.20 hours]] I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of Mr Luzar's proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 3, 175 Members registered, for 70, against 32. This proposal has not been adopted. Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that, on the basis of this vote, we will try to call for an emergency meeting on this subject. For this, we need 40 votes from Members. And because this subject is so serious - and we will look at the jinx of the vote, which of you voted in favour of who opposed, who abstained. Here you can see clearly who defends the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic and who does not. We, as I said, will try to convene an extraordinary meeting on this subject, because this topic can really irreversibly affect the future of lives in the Czech Republic and can change the Czech Republic at all, as we have known it so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u11	Thank you, too, Mr Vice-President. We will now vote on the show. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u12	I think it is good to put this issue into context. The Committee on European Affairs will be meeting tomorrow to vote on the Prime Minister's negotiating mandate. It's an operational meeting that will take place tomorrow. As I have the information from Mr Benešík's chair of the Committee on European Affairs, the committee has taken a negative position on this in the previous period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u13	Thank you, Mr President. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u14	I think the committee's position is good, but I think it's wrong that we don't talk about it in plenary. It's a shame. If the reason was just the timing of that point, I don't know why those who didn't support it, if they didn't mind it being the first point today, then maybe you should suggest another proper term. Otherwise, we'll actually meet here and talk about it eventually. You know that from the last parliamentary term, you still have no chance of preventing important foreign policy matters being discussed at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Where else than here? And if we agree it's wrong, I just want to remind you that it's prepared so that when it's approved, we won't discuss it. That'll be done by then. It'll be too late. And then we can walk in front of the cameras and say how bad it is. Now it's time to do something. Most of you don't want to do it. I say if there's a reason it's supposed to be the first point today, let's say it's going to be the last point today, or the second-to-last point, but it's absolutely important. It's the day before the coming of the new government, and the government party is against it. I don't understand. I don't understand at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, I was also surprised by what was said here. I think that the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies is sovereign enough for us to have this debate openly and here and before the citizens of the Czech Republic. I don't know why the subject needs to be hidden on the committee. I really didn't get that at all. So I think this is such a serious issue that we should discuss it here in the Chamber of Deputies in plenary. Now I'm not sure I can make another motion for a vote? I can't do this anymore. So, of course, at the next beginning of the meeting we will propose - and I say in advance that if the government officials - but this will be another government - prepare for this, it will not be offensive, because we know that the government is new, even though the YES movement was in the current government, but we would like to discuss it in a matter of fact so that we can discuss the proposals from all sides and say what awaits the citizens of the Czech Republic in the event of the adoption of proposals and what we can do about it. Nothing more, nothing less. There's no need to get mad at me or anyone else or the plaintiffs from any other political party. We just wanted to talk, there's no problem. And I think it's a serious subject. Nothing more, nothing less. And I think that would deserve a debate in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u17	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Bartošek, then Minister Stropnický. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u18	Thank you. Two things. For KDU-ČSL I can say that we have supported this point to be included, because we consider it important that it be discussed in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, as well as that the mandate will be equipped with the future Prime Minister and he knows how the Chamber of Deputies is thinking about it. However, I completely reject the fact that this is a matter of hiding this subject in the Committee on European Affairs, because it is a standard discussion of the European agenda on this committee. This committee has an extraordinary position and the resolution of this committee is as valid as the resolution of the entire Chamber of Deputies. Just as it was in the previous period of the Chamber of Deputies' meeting that a number of agendas were discussed only on the ground of this committee. This means that there is no hiding, but it is a completely standard process within the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Stropnický, then Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to intercede for what has been said here by my immediate speaker. There's no avoiding it, please. The fact that someone voted against the priority assignment for today's program does not mean that they underestimate the issue or that they do not pay attention to it or that they are neglecting it in some way. I would also stand up for the discussion in the committee responsible. If we are going to bring down committee meetings, I don't know, then let's cancel the committees and solve everything in plenary. I don't think that's wise. As far as the summit is concerned, that is why we, as a movement, have tried to make sure that the government is appointed so that Prime Minister Babiš can go there. Believe me, he's preparing himself very carefully for this. That's why the committee is tomorrow. We're definitely not gonna jump blindly into any trains that would take us where we don't want to go. This will also be the subject of a programming declaration. But this summit does not address this issue as a priority. This is to be the subject of discussion during a working dinner on Thursday night without taking any material. After it's one step further -- and that's in the category of weeks -- I'm very much interrogating myself to have this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u21	Thank you, Minister. Now Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u22	Mr President, colleagues, I think it is necessary for the SPD to realise how the European Committee works. If the European Committee is discussing everything - and, in essence, the House's resolution is valid - then if they send it all here, it will completely overwhelm us. That's the first thing that needs to be realized. You can also verify how it was done in the committee. I am here basically interpreting the words of the President of the European Committee, who does not have priority rights, and there it is actually being discussed and now, of course, it will also be discussed with the Prime Minister so that he has a clear position. And we can do that - and KDU-ČSL voted in the overwhelming majority to include it here, but this does not necessarily mean that it is necessary. As for Mr Orbán or Kurz and others mentioned here, I will deal with them on Thursday, I will deal with them personally several times a year at our political meetings and they know what the position of the Czech Republic is. I think it's very clear. That's what the European committee is for, because if we bring everything here, we're not going to do anything else, because if you look at how many meetings they've had, how much legislation they've discussed, we would really be doing nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u23	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u24	It is true that, in fact, the European Committee is such a small parliament and in many cases its resolution replaces the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies as a whole. However, it is quite unusual in Europe. And I think it is not up to us to discuss the key issues, in addition, in the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. We do not need to discuss every directive here, every regulation, but we should discuss key topics here. I even think we need to discuss them. And Mr. Stropnický performance. I've been here making sure that there's enough time, how the quotas are still going to be voted on, how no one is voting us out, from the ministers of the day, until they voted us out. You say that Thursday will only be an informal dinner, but you or someone else could have gone with the mandate of the Chamber of Deputies if we had agreed. And that, of course, is quite different if our minister can say, "Watch out, you're up to something here, but my national parliament is against it." I have confirmed this not only from the debates and from the headlines, but I have confirmed it after the debate and after some resolution adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. I'd like to ask Minister Stropnický, when he says there's still time, so he can give us a schedule where we can step in, what opportunities we have to prevent it, what he and his government are going to do about it. In order not to know again in three months' time "well we thought it would be so, but then it fell by a lower level, there was a qualified majority voted there and that's it" That's what we heard here three or four years ago when it first came to quotas. It was premature, too. Take your time. We've got it under control. We had nothing under control. And we're worried that Dublin IV isn't under our control either. So it is a terrible pity that we could not debate this and, if necessary, we could not adopt a resolution. We, as citizens' democrats, repeatedly say that we will be successful outside and strong outside just as we are in agreement at home. And here I think we have a chance to find a national consensus, equip the government with whatever it takes so that it can perform with this mandate. I know that the President of the Committee on European Affairs is proud that he already has a mandate or does not have a mandate from the Committee on European Affairs, but the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies is logically much more important no matter how divided in the law. [[Screams in the hall.]] I don't have to scream, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u25	I'm gonna ask you not to yell at each other in the O.R.!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u26	Don't be so formalistic. Either it's about the thing. That means... I know from the debates with my MEPs that this is extremely dangerous for the Czech Republic. When we said we wanted to negotiate an exemption from the common asylum policy, you said many "no need." That's what it takes! What will we do if this passes and it is automatically implemented into Czech legislation! Then we can talk about it, but it'll be too late! And the quota system will be anchored. And then we'll just hear excuses. Well, we thought it wouldn't be, and they outvoted us, and the Polák didn't stick with us, and they didn't stick with us. But the first thing we should have is a consensus in the Czech Parliament, and then we have to look for allies, not the other way around!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-000-000.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Let me read the apology. Mr Václav Klaus apologizes for today's working day. If no longer the holder of the priority right is interested in speaking, then we would agree to the draft agenda of the 4th meeting, as submitted in writing, as amended by the proposal of the grémia approved. Anyone checking in? No. It's okay. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposed agenda. Who's against it? Voting number 4, 180 Members registered, for 167, against no one. The motion was accepted. I'm stating that the agenda for the meeting has been approved. Thank you. We'll proceed with the approved agenda. The first point is
