ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u1	265. Czech National Bank's report on inflation - July 2016 (The Monetary Development Report for the first half of 2016) /German press 890/ Once again, I welcome the Governor and, under the CNB Act, as amended, the CNB is obliged to submit a report on monetary developments to the Chamber of Deputies at least twice a year for discussion, and I therefore ask the Governor to give us the report. Please, Mr. Governor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u2	Once again, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. I will try to be brief, however, let me inform you about the inflation report, which is the CNB's basic monetary policy document. Given the time gap, this report has already been overcome by the fourth inflation report for 2016. I will therefore try to come out of the newer report. So I'm just going to focus on new information. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] The growth of the Czech economy slowed gradually last year and reached 1.9 percentage points in the third quarter as regards gross domestic product growth. This development reflected in particular... [[Silence for noise. The O.R.'s slowing down.]] ... a decline in government and corporate investment financed by European funds. On the contrary, the economy continued to be supported by loose monetary conditions, low oil prices and rising external demand. The moderation of economic growth reflected, in particular, the noticeable relaxation of the dynamics of the manufacturing industry in the third quarter of last year, and the deep decline, unfortunately, continues to be shown by the construction industry. Although domestic economic growth was slowing, it did not show any negative effects on the labour market, on the contrary, there was an increase in tensions in the imbalance of labour supply and demand. Employment continued to increase. This was reflected in the decline in unemployment rates. The one known was at the lowest level in the Czech Republic as regards the countries of the European Union. In these circumstances, I think, of course, it has further accelerated wage growth. Inflation increased relatively rapidly at the end of last year and reached 2% of annual growth in December. After about four years, when it moved below the target of the Czech National Bank's inflation target, it returned to this goal at the very end of last year. The first reason for this increase in inflation was the acceleration in food prices. So-called core inflation has also increased. In it, continued growth in the domestic economy and rising wage dynamics have been positive for a long time, which forms the basis of relatively robustly growing domestic demand. Moreover, one-off effects were added to this in December, i.e. the price effects of the introduction of electronic records of sales in the food and accommodation sector, whose contribution to headline inflation can be estimated at a maximum of two tenths of a percentage point. Thus, the 2% target was achieved a little earlier than our current, de facto November, forecast expected. However, a more rapid increase in inflation at the end of last year can be seen as a result of one-off effects, in particular the fluctuating development of certain types of food, and, as I have already mentioned, the one-off effect caused by the introduction of the EET system. By the end of the year, this inflationary impact of one-off effects will wear off again, so it will actually equalize. In the opposite direction, however, this year will be a rather unexpected further reduction of regulated gas prices for households. The message of our latest forecast remains valid at the moment. As regards fundamental inflation factors, according to this November forecast, domestic costs will continue to increase significantly mainly due to rising wages in conditions of continued growth in economic activity. At the same time, the anti-inflationary effect of import prices caused by the decline in prices of industrial producers in the euro area, which we have observed here for several years in the past, is quickly wearing off, and we are now again at a slight rise in these prices. According to our forecast, which envisages the use of the exchange rate as an instrument around the middle of this year, inflation at the monetary policy horizon, i.e. in the coming months between year and year and half, will slightly exceed our target and will gradually return to the target. In the next two years, according to our estimates, our economy - that is, this year and next year - will grow at roughly the same rate as it has been, perhaps slightly faster, somewhere around 3%. The increase in investment should be renewed this year. On the other hand, however, growth will also be slightly hampered by a temporary slowdown in external demand and then, after leaving the exchange rate commitment, even by less relaxed monetary conditions in our economy. The labour market will continue to show this tension by increasing wage dynamics. The unemployment rate will fall very slowly. Now, I ask you briefly about our monetary policy. At the last monetary meeting in December, the Bank Board unanimously decided to keep interest rates at the current level, i.e. technical zero, while at the same time confirming the commitment to keep the koruna exchange rate close to the level of 27 for the euro. The risks to this forecast have been assessed as balanced and we believe, and we have confirmed that the need to maintain the monetary conditions released to the present extent remains. We have repeated our so-called tough commitment, or that we will not abandon the exchange rate commitment by the end of the first quarter of this year, and it is likely to happen sometime around the middle of this year. As for... I think it'll probably be enough at this point. Thank you for your attention and I am ready for your possible questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u3	Thank you, Mr. Governor. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 890/1. I beg the rapporteur of this committee, Mr Jaroslav Klaška. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u4	Thank you for the floor. As Mr President has already said, the Committee on Budgets discussed the Czech National Bank's report on inflation, i.e. the Monetary Development Report for the first half of 2016, at the 46th meeting of 21 September last year, and adopted the following resolution: After the opening words of Czech National Bank representative Tomáš Holub, report by Jaroslav Klaška and following the debate of the Committee on Budgets: I. notes the Czech National Bank's report on inflation - July 2016; [[Report on monetary developments for the 1st half of 2016]] II. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Czech National Bank's report on inflation - July 2016; [[Report on monetary developments for the 1st half of 2016]] III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. [[Member Fiedler is reporting for the floor.]] Member Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would like to take advantage of the Governor's presence on one question. I registered his commentary and it was mentioned today in his speech here on the expected growth and the current growth of our economy. You have said, Mr Governor, through Mr President, that the economic conditions are favourable, positive, but the growth of the economy that we are achieving, which is also expected for the future period, does not, in turn, correspond to so many of the favourable economic conditions in which we are moving. And that you don't actually have an analysis of where there might be a cause. I'm aware of that, but I'd still like to ask if you could comment more or give your opinion as to why the situation is like this. Thanks to the overall growth of the European economy in the surrounding countries, unemployment, low interest rates are very low, and the growth of the economy we have, as you have said, is of course good, favourable, but it does not correspond to that. If you could comment on this and say a little bit, where, when it's probably not clear - I know it's very difficult to analyze - where to look for possible causes of this condition, or that we're not even higher in favorable economic growth than we currently are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. Please, Mr. Governor. The governor wants to answer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u8	Mr Vice-President, I will try to respond through you. The subject mentioned by the Member is extremely serious, but at the same time complex and would certainly be issued for at least one and maybe several seminars with the Chamber of Deputies or anywhere else. So I'm just going to outline some of my perspective in the form of a hypothesis. I agree with the honourable Member in the analytical view that it is to a certain extent that we have full employment, we have a really extremely favourable situation with regard to the balance in macroeconomic indicators, we are virtually not suffering from any visible imbalance today, we have de facto balanced public finances, we have a slightly or more surplus external management, that is, we have a trade balance and balance of payments, so we have a labour market that does not actually show any negative situation in terms of some unused capacity, yet our growth potential, on which we are roughly located - the potential is something that economists use as a kind of theoretical category, when they try to determine what the growth of the economy will look like in the full use of roughly economic capacity and, at the same time, in not violating fundamental imbalances, it means that there is not excessive inflation, that the labour market is still overheating, or that the economy is in a domestic or foreign direction, and it seems that our new post-crisis potential is actually somewhere around 3%, and I agree that ambition should be higher, that the economy, which would still have the most successful partners in the European Union, maybe even have a higher potential of 4 %. I'm sure there are many reasons. I dare say only some hypotheses of my more or less personal, this is no official position of the Czech National Bank, but I do not want to remain unanswered. I think, on the one hand, there is a problem already in the capacity of the available workforce, that is, two things have joined us, or more things in the labour market. One is that we are at the top of this country's demographic capacity, we are already declining the number of workers, from the point of view of age and other circumstances, the population. At the same time, we have a certain long-term discrepancy between what the school system produces for us and what the structural demands of the labour market are. At the same time, we have quite closed the labour import, so these are things that limit us in part of the production capacity in terms of labour. I'd see another one, and that's a very broad matter, it's kind of... and it's long-term imperfect. All international analyses, when assessing the competitiveness of the Czech economy, say that the biggest problem is in the institutions and the ability to manage the country, in the efficiency of the country's governance. This is a very complex question, and we can now include the fact that we are investing too little to do what we need to do in infrastructure, in other things. And why are we doing this? We have the money, but we are unable to implement any projects. In general, management efficiency is insufficient. And here, I think, is a challenge for all of us who are somehow involved in the public sphere, and, of course, the Chamber of Deputies is almost in the first place when it comes to the quality of legislation. But it's not enough in itself, which I wouldn't want to end up like this. Because more sophisticated legislation will not improve the efficiency of the country dramatically if it is not properly used. That would probably be my very general and hypothetical answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u9	Thank you to the Governor of the Czech National Bank. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue the open debate. In fact, Mr Ivan Pilný is reporting. If he waits a moment, I will just read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, apologizing to Mr Marek Ženíšek from 9:00 to 16:00 and Mr Zahradník from 10:00 to 13:00 from today's meeting. Now, then, Mr Ivan Pilný, with a factual comment on the governor's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I would like to draw the attention of the Chamber of Deputies once again to what the Governor of the Czech National Bank has said here because he is deeply right. I welcome the very conservative approach of the Czech National Bank as well as the numbers, because there are now tens of thousands of jobs missing in the labour market and the shift towards being filled above all, because there are practically no reserves in the Czech Republic, such as workers from Ukraine, is very slow. Next thing. The investments were mentioned here. This is not really a problem of how much we spend on investment, but how efficiently investment is used. We can see how we are building, we can look at other blocks, some of which unfortunately form the Chamber of Deputies. This is quite a big problem which hinders the Czech economy. Another thing that has not been mentioned is the question of diversification of the economy. We are still very dependent on the European Union and, above all, Germany, especially in the automotive industry, which is such a drag of GDP. If the European Union gets in trouble, and she's in them, if Germany gets in trouble, and it's in them, we can do whatever we want here, but the Czech economy will just take it away. So this conservatism is absolutely appropriate, and we should remember it in budgetary discipline and how we spend money, especially how we measure investment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u11	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. We have other factual points. First, Mr Jiří Dolejš and then Mr Karel Fiedler, also with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u12	Thank you for the floor. As you have heard from the previous speaker, we are now getting a little thin on the political approach to what economic policy should entail. I can understand that, in the current relatively stable situation, the representative of the government camp will commend the situation, but the fact is that, in the years when we achieved 6% growth, there were undoubtedly some factors that probably are not working today, and it was not just because we recently entered the European Union's common space. In the future, I think that the mechanical calculation of the potential product will also not help us if we have to deal with some of the problems that have arisen, for example, because the Czech Republic is quite dependent on the assembly room, that the fourth industrial revolution is pouring on us, and that it is all structural changes that cannot be without more massive investment. And the fact that we appreciate our investment is growing - we certainly don't grow in the way we need it. And here's the much bigger reserve to make the economy grow faster.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler and Mr František Laudát, duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u14	Thank you, Mr. Governor, for your answer. I would like to mention here what was said from his answer, and what is beginning to sound, and perhaps for a long time, from several sides, that we are referring to one of those limiting factors, why this growth is not greater, and in the future there will probably be even more limit, what produces our school system. The needs of industry, the needs of our economy are elsewhere than what our education system produces. I'm glad the Prime Minister is here, I hope he sees it, I don't know if he perceives these words. Once again we praise how everything works for us, how everything is without problems and where we have to make some changes in the education system, I think that is just one of the things we should work very hard on in the Chamber of Deputies, but it is the will of the government coalition in particular. I'm also saying this because there's probably going to be some debate about what to do with the surplus, that we shouldn't be so optimistic and we shouldn't want to spend it right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u15	Thank you. Mr František Laudát, now duly applied for. We are still in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take the opportunity to have the governor here. The Czech National Bank is one of the few institutions that has enjoyed huge credit here until these times, and I would like to make a very good point about how the discussions took place at the regular meeting of the Budget Committee before Christmas, so that you very, very much strengthen the analytical activity regarding the latest trends in the world's economies. Unfortunately, there was one answer, which did not please me at all, from among the Board members. And if there are appeals from you towards transformation, and I mean that in a good way, no coups, nothing, but really to transform or transform the Czech economy into modern ones, to be able to respond to the latest trends, and said here colleague Dolejš, Industry 4.0, I mean, from you it will be the public and perhaps even politicians take more weight, because this, this is what the current government is doing, is... So far we're living well, the economy is growing, but in some areas it's already hitting and it's going to spread over the next few years, it's going to take five years, definitely ten years, to the ceiling of its possibilities. We happen to have an amendment to the school law today, and we're starting Act 130 on the promotion of science and research this afternoon, and I have to say, it's both departments where the situation is very bad from the point of view of the near future. There's a huge association across the political spectrum of education experts, but the debates that are going on here, unfortunately, it's: we're going to pay more over there, we're going to pay less over there, there's going to cancel some education, there's going to spread and so on, but it's kind of mechanical. Almost zero discussion, zero discussion, is about how education starts to change inside, so that other graduates with other abilities, other knowledge, simply come out of schools. At this point, our school is still raising future unemployed. And it can really turn into a social crisis. Today, you already know, and it has also been said here that companies come across the fact that they do not have qualified people, people who will require Industry 4.0, regardless of whether they are simply studying the humanitarian branch of education or natural science, both will need mathematics, both branches, because even if from industry, which here various associations of industry and transport interpret it as a priority that we have, I do not know if it is 48 or what percentage of GDP is industry, I warn you that in the near future it can turn into a very tragic, very tragic one for our social cohesion handicap. And a lot of these people are supposed to be moving, or new young people are going to be on duty, and even in those services, unfortunately, in quotation marks, they're going to need and have to be able to load, they have to know logistics, they have to be able to work with the Internet and everything. And it is not only a problem for Czech society, but I must say that it is a problem for the whole world. We are in a situation where very, very much happens that practice is ahead of education. So education, education, education. And I would very much like you, from the position of dedicated people from the CNB, to point out this more strongly and more urgently. The same with regard to science, research, innovation. Unfortunately, Mr. Vice Prime Minister did nothing in terms of the future for the reconstruction of the Czech scientific and research space. Until these days I have submitted one technical amendment to Act 130, today I present a written amendment from our colleague Vácha, also more or less technical, Act 130. The Czech Republic cannot afford the luxury of chaos, dubling and confusion in the Czech research area and the innovation area. It's an expensive luxury from the point of view of the present. And that's what the direction of investment has to do with it. So, Governor, I would ask you very much that the CNB raise her finger and teach the company in a good way. The world will come, and it will come, whether we like it or not. The question is whether we take it as a challenge or end up, unfortunately, on the side of the losers. So far, we're heading from that intersection, unfortunately, into that bunch of losers. We're not doing enough, we still have a chance. We have top people in Dejvice, Brno. So please, there's still time, but the time is running out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u17	I thank Mr František Laudát. Now Milan Urban with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u18	Hello, colleagues and colleagues. I have something to tell you when I was listening to František Laudát. Well, of course, here in this report, we can have a discussion on a number of topics. However, economic policy is primarily a matter of the government of the Czech Republic, not of the Czech National Bank. The Czech National Bank is an independent institution and has other responsibilities and competencies than to address how much money in the budget will be spent on development and research, etc. So the debate is certainly interesting and we could pursue it on some other occasion and it would be good, but now I think that it may be nice to consider questions in this regard to the Governor of the Czech National Bank, but I think that we are unnecessarily burdening the Governor here with things that he understands as former Prime Minister, but as Governor of the Czech National Bank, responsibility for economic policy, for vision, research and for things that concern competitiveness, is primarily borne by the Government of the Czech Republic and possibly Parliament of the Czech Republic, which expresses confidence in such a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. So far, my colleague Milan Urban has been the last to sign up for the general debate. I'm asking if anyone's checking in. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We will proceed to a debate in detail which I do not have an application for, but, of course, the rapporteur will fulfil his reporting role and make a motion for a resolution. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, let me refer to my report from the general debate and remind you that I have tabled a motion for a resolution from the Budget Committee, which recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the Czech National Bank's Inflation Report - July 2016. [[Report on monetary developments for the 1st half of 2016]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-003-265.u21	Thank you. Does anyone else have a proposal in a detailed debate? It's not like that. We can therefore decide on the proposal made, taking note of the report on monetary developments. We will decide in the vote number 166, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 166 from the present 164 for 131, against no one. The motion was accepted. We have taken note of the report, thank you to the Governor of the National Bank, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 265. The next item is the item
