ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u1	208. Government bill amending Act No. 49/1997 Coll., on Civil Aviation and amending and supplementing Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Business Enterprise (Livning Act), as amended, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended / House print 747/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Transport and the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Václav Snopek, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are in press 747/4, which was delivered on 26 October, and the resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as press 747/5. I ask the Minister if he wishes to speak before the debate is opened. That's right. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of discussion is the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Civil Aviation Act, whose primary aim is to implement adaptation measures in relation to the directly applicable European Union rules and procedures for introducing operational noise reduction restrictions at airports, reporting of civil aviation events and certificates and certification of air traffic controllers, thereby fulfilling the commitments that the Czech Republic has made to its membership of the European Union. The relevant adaptation measures in relation to the relevant directly applicable European Union rules should have been adopted in 2015, in the case of one regulation then to be adopted by the end of June last year. A number of amendments have been applied to the bill. The amendments which have been drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and which, on the one hand, specify existing legislation or aim to improve existing administrative practice, the amendment increasing the maximum take-off weight of the aircraft model falling outside the scope of the rules applicable to aircraft and the amendment governing the activities of executive airmen shall be adopted by the Ministry of Transport with agreement. The Guarantee Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies also adopted a consistent opinion on these amendments. The Ministry of Transport then takes a disagreeable position on amendments to the definition of airport, runways intended for take-off and landing of aircraft and airport operations, including the regulation of expropriation of land and buildings and the rights to them necessary for the implementation of air construction and related proposals for amendments to the Act on expropriation and the Act on Accelerating the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure. In the course of the discussion of the Government's bill, it became clear that the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Defence have not yet been able to agree on the final form of regulation of airport operation and settlement of property relations at airports. For this reason, it was agreed that comprehensive legislation in this area would be dealt with by the ministries on the basis of mutual consensus in the form of a separate government bill, and I will not support any partial intervention in this area at present in the form of an amendment. The unadvisable opinion on these amendments was also adopted by the Guarantee Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. In view of the adaptation nature of the proposal, I would like to ask you to approve the Government's draft law, as amended by the amendments on which both the petitioner and the guarantee economic committee of the Chamber of Deputies adopted a favourable recommendation. I would just like to add that the work has already begun, and I am committed here to the fact that we will definitely complete it and present it to this House. So I would like to ask you to approve this bill as amended by the amendments with which both the petitioner and the guarantee economic committee of the Chamber of Deputies took a favourable position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u3	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening the debate. I have two applications for it so far. Mr Adamec, please, and Mr Seďa will be ready. First of all, Mr Adamec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, fellow Members, I wanted to speak here on a matter that the Minister has already indicated here, and that is the question of amendments relating to property settlements between airport operators and landowners. I would not talk about it, but unfortunately, between second and third reading, I was again visited by representatives of one of the two ministries and tried simply to push forward to address this problem at the plenary of this House during the discussion of this point from now on. I would like to say that, of course, the rights of landowners and perhaps the rights of airport operators are currently colliding, causing problems. However, it is such a complex matter that I do not think that this should be discussed by means of amendments made in the plenary of Members or, where appropriate, by the appropriate committee of expertise. [[9.20 hours]] I confess that I understand the issue, I understand it, but the problem is that I would really be afraid here that the good intention is not a classic road to hell paved with just good intentions, and therefore I welcome the information that the Minister will be working on it. I think it is necessary for them to meet, and I do not want to advise the ministers, of course, both the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Transport, and to discuss it with each other, because I would be afraid at a different level to solve this problem. Otherwise, I am glad that he has gone through an amendment concerning a field which, although currently sounds mainly abroad in the Czech Republic, is aviation modeling, that it actually compares the weight of aircraft for which there is no pilot's licence to a weight of up to 25 kilograms. If anyone feels that the drones are threatening society today, then it is necessary to address this issue in a different way, to define what a drone is and use drones. But this is a subject for a completely different discussion, because the weight reduction at the time may have been driven by good intentions, but Europe is not governed by this. In Europe, it is 25 kilograms and it is causing problems not only to our competitors in this area and our representatives, but it is causing problems the opposite. When the foreign contestants come here, they just have the maquettes up to 25 kilos, and without a pilot's license, they can't participate in these competitions. So, of course, I welcome that, unraveling the relationship of the pilot versus the employer's organisation in aviation. I understand that, too. And I consider, more or less, what has been passed by the Economic Committee, at this point in time, what can be approved at this time of plenary. Therefore, I ask you not to support those amendments concerning property-law relations in this way, because it really is very thin ice, and I warn you before that, to deal with it in this amateur way. I'm really warning you about this. I get it. I understand the representatives of the ministry who are active pilots, as I understand, who really seem to mind at this point. It is an old matter that has not been dealt with for 20 years, and it needs to be resolved, that is what has to be said in this plenary. But at this point, there's no room for it. prosit support the amendments of the Economic Committee. Our club will proceed like this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Mr Seďa and Mr Klaška will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, fellow Members, thank you for the promise of the Minister, but I do not believe that promise. You know, we started discussing this material on April 20, 2016. Since then, if you remember, there have been many meetings between the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Defence. The Committee on Economic Affairs, which first approved the amendments, did not approve it twice or three times. I agree that this is a very complicated material, especially in terms of the land and litigation that are dragging. However, according to the Rules of Procedure, I propose § 106 para. 2, I'm filing a motion to repeat the second reading and I'll explain why. The so-called zero option, which is now being proposed, solves absolutely nothing and pushes the problem away at least within a period of two years. I think that we as legislators should defend the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. That means whoever owns the land, whoever owns the property, should have the right to dispose of the land. Currently, and it is also the fault of the Civil Aviation Authority of the Ministry of Transport, these rights are trampled on, even refusing compensation for rent and the like. And just another reason. You know, the Department of Transport doesn't defend interest in the state, because at the airports of Plzeň-Lína, Prostějov and Chrudim... it's state property, the Ministry of Defence. I therefore propose and submit a motion to repeat the second reading, thereby allowing the Minister to fulfil his promise as soon as possible. Yes. He's twisting his head. I know. I've got a big file here, like Andrej Babiš says, about that. The problem has occurred in the past, and I know that a number of Members have an eminent interest in making a zero option, but I ask that this be resolved, because the Minister knows what we are talking about. And by returning this proposal to second reading, we will allow the Ministry to take action as soon as possible. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u7	Thank you. Please, Mr Gabal, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I would support my colleague Sedi proposal. Unfortunately, we were dealing with this situation in the Defence Committee at a time when we no longer had a chance to take a stand, and we were not previously appointed among the committees to comment on this. It is necessary for the Defence Committee to have a chance to discuss the proposal, because it is an airport that really is in a situation that the state may lose it. As of now, this is an airport that, when a battle helicopter lands there, a private tenant has to pay the rent. That is, if you, as taxpayers, use the airport for the purpose of defending this country, you pay to land on the state. So I'd really like us to discuss this. We had representatives of both departments during the hearing. I must say that the representative of the Department of the competent Ministry of Transport, who is in charge of the air inspection, did not really convince me that they are responsible for overseeing what is happening at that airport. So please return the defence committee and then we will propose a positive solution to you and, of course, this will also open the time for the Ministry to proceed as it promises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u9	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Klašek, I have a request for two performances with priority rights. First the Minister and then the Chairman of the ODS Club. So the Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I feel obliged to speak a little bit here, because there are things that are not entirely true. First, by buying time, we will not endanger anything, and we will certainly not endanger the security of the Czech Republic. If this is Lína airport, Lína airport is of course operational and the DOD squadron has a contractual obligation that they can land there without any fees. That's the first thing. When we look at the history of the airport Lína, Lína airport was rented by the military for twice 50 years with a commitment that the landlord must invest EUR 550 million at this airport in the first twenty years. We've been there 16 years today, so the airport would have to be gold-plated for this money. The army had a lot of options in 16 years to solve the problem, and the law doesn't solve it itself. So let's not mix solutions to one airport with a change that is in property-law relations, and that is much more complex. It's not just about these two airports. When we talk about the airport Příbram, it doesn't belong to the army because she sold it twice. One time she sold it to one group, the other part sold it to the other group, and these two groups are going to compete with each other, whether or not the airport is going to be there. That's a whole other thing. The problem we are discussing and which is really essential is what we want in the Czech Republic. If we want all the airports or most of the airports that we have left, or if we want to make complete liberalisation, and all the land has to be settled. Then it's gonna be hard to hold those airports. I do not think that this is a material for which a real amendment could be resolved. I am sorry that Mr Seďa does not trust me through the President, but I will do it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u11	Mr Sed point of fact and then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't usually do third readings. But the Minister should settle with Deputy Kopřiva, because he seems to be giving him misinformation because the military must pay for the lease at Lína airport. That's the first thing. Two. Příbram Airport didn't sell the Ministry of Defence twice, but only once, as you say. But for the next one. The guy who rents it owes it to the state, after all, to the DOD, 100 miles. CZK for renting Lína airport. Is that not enough for you?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u13	One more point in fact, Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u14	Maybe I'd just add from the defense committee's discussion that while Malešice Air Repairs at their airport, where they train, repair military equipment, train on Iraqi pilots and others, they're under constant pressure from an air inspection that is literally sitting on them, so here at the airport where one of the Mercedes importers made it a test track, that inspection wasn't, I don't even remember. Burned buildings. And since the Mercedes go there, if they're disturbed when a military helicopter lands, they really have to pay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u15	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u16	I think the performance of my previous speakers has shown how laws are not to be made. There are specific cases here, I'm not questioning it, and I don't want to say who's right in this particular case, and on this case, we want to regulate the law to solve something. I think that's a system-bad approach. We are witnessing a dispute in the government between two ministers and two ministries. I suggest that we not drag the Deputys into this political dispute, Mr Seďa, through the President, because the responsibility is the Minister's. He may be advised by advisors, deputy directors, union directors, but the Minister has the political responsibility ahead of us, and he clearly formulates his views in his speech. I was visited by representatives of both ministries, both transport and defence. I've listened to them, and that's why I don't think there's an easy solution. I've known that for a long time. Mr. Minister, if he says he's going to be working on an amendment that we're going to approve, there's no way to trust. Not that I don't trust him personally, but if you look at the calendar, it's February 1st, and you know how long the legislative process is. So if he had submitted a bill to the government tomorrow, and the bill still doesn't exist, there was no external or internal review procedure, the government didn't discuss it, it didn't come to the Chamber of Deputies. So it is not possible to do this from a time point of view, not from the will of the Minister of Transport or the Ministry of Transport. Anyway, when I talked to the defense representatives, I said let's try to separate it and separate the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u17	Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u18	And if the army has, like, legitimate interests at some airports, let's talk about whether by executive procedures or by changing legislation we solve the needs of the army, and let's not solve everything at once, because then we put into the same bag an airport that the army is not interested in, and the airport that it is interested in. Only for those who don't do it in detail, according to the information I have, we have about 95 airports. Only 65 of that is supposed to be mapped by owners. Of the 65, he owns 55 of them, we're talking about what he can or can't do. 18 airports are operated by the same owner or related company, both the over-half owner and the operator. 37 airports have a majority owner other than an operator, but of those 37 is 32 which owns a majority state, a city or a municipality. And only in five cases, one private entity has an absolute majority and the other private entity operates the airport. And today we're scaring each other into closing airports. And that shouldn't happen. That's what I think is a bad approach, because if you look at today's applicable regulations, it's an illusion to build a new airport. That's an illusion. This means that airports can only be lost, adding basically is not possible. Some say it's theoretically possible, but it's practically not possible. However, I mean, I don't know if you all know that according to airport law, it can only disappear with the consent of the Ministry of Transport. The State has clear jurisdiction here, it is § 25b, the obligation of the owner of the airport, which says, among other things, that if the owner cannot ensure the operation of the airport, he is obliged to offer the airport to ensure its operation by the State. We're not talking about property. We're talking about whether the airport works or doesn't work. So please, let's not be scared in this debate, neither side nor side, because it's not exactly accurate. If the Minister was serious about his promise that he still wanted to resolve this during this parliamentary term, then I think the only possible way is to comply with Mr Sed's proposal from a time-to-time point of view, return to second reading, wait for the amendments on which the Ministry of Transport is certainly working, work them during the second reading, find a political consensus and enforce it at repeated third reading. This can be done. If the law passes in any form today, no amendment will be approved by the end of the term. I think that's pretty clear. If we were in the middle of the parliamentary term or in the first year, my argument would not be true or strong. But look at how many of these laws we have, see how many weeks of meetings are scheduled and how much the proposed amendment is in. So if the Minister is serious, and I'm taking him seriously, I think he's supposed to support the return. We are then able to wait for the amendments prepared by the Ministry of Transport to resolve this difficult issue, and then we can approve it. The second option is that we will approve a so-called net transposition, perhaps with one amendment, and leave it for the next parliamentary term. That's what I'm saying. This will not happen during this parliamentary term when the Minister said in the introductory words that this will happen during this parliamentary term. It's not possible. And each of us can decide what's better, whether to solve the problem in this parliamentary term, that means to wait and leave the Ministry of Transport for some time, I don't know if they're capable of having it in a month, two weeks, three weeks, I really don't know, the Minister could say that, and then go back to it. Because it is basically the only issue of this amendment. I think the other points have broad support. Let's argue about this. And if we want to address this in this parliamentary term, let us return it to second reading and let the Ministry of Transport prepare amendments. If we do not want and resign to a solution in this parliamentary term, today we can pass the law in some form, it does not really matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u19	Thank you, too. Two factual points. Mr Bendl, then Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u20	Thank you for the floor. Unfortunately, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development did not discuss this material, although it relates significantly to the functioning of cities and municipalities and cooperation with airports and how many times the ownership share of individual municipalities is involved. There are many of these problematic airports in Central Bohemia. The mentioned Příbramské, but without problems is not even Benešov, Kladno, Velká Good, but also Milovice, or Vodochody and so on. In short, there's a lot to worry about. I have listened very carefully to the Minister, and I think that we should all wish that the ministers for one movement that sits together in the government could finally make a deal, because something else is... or maybe it's more complicated if you weren't from one political incubator, but given that you're fellow party members, or what I'm supposed to call it, from one movement, you should have the ability to agree if that's the only thing that prevents it. Because you said, Minister, that you would still present such a material in this parliamentary term, but there are elections in October, and we all know that the legislative process lasts at least six months. The question is to what extent this will be the priority of this government. You'd have to be prepared for that, or you'd have to have that solution by now. If you have it, then taking it back and waiting is certainly a better solution than bringing the material here first for the next meeting, at first. But, as I understand it, you are far from that far from the legislative process, and it is not even discussed by the government, and it does not appear to be within a few weeks. Even I would argue for it if you had the solution, so that you nod to it, because otherwise you basically don't have it. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u21	Thank you. Mr. Adamec, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and co-workers, he told our club president here. If we want to deal with this during this parliamentary term, the only way is to return it to second reading. But why didn't I say that in my opening statement? It's very simple. I was at the meeting of the Economic Committee, where the representatives of the Ministry of Defence performed, and in a rather aggressive way, I haven't really seen it yet! It convinced me that there is no communication between ministries at the moment! Since then, a month has passed, two and the situation is still the same and similar gentlemen from the Ministry of Defence visited me and pushed again in the same way. I'll tell you what! I wonder what Minister Stropnický says about those military airports. He pretends it's none of his business! [[He's speaking with an elevated voice.]] It's not possible to deal with the law like that! If it is true that you want to deal with it, at this moment and in this parliamentary term, the only way is to actually return it to second reading. Or let the Minister make it clear that this will not be resolved here, because the defence is simply not there, and let's not do this until the next parliamentary term when the new Chamber of Deputies is here. There really is no alternative! And let's not pretend that the deal is here. I don't see her because I've seen it happen to this moment! I'm interested in the opinion of Minister Stropnický, who puts his head in the sand and doesn't solve anything!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u23	That was the last point of fact. The rapporteur has claimed priority rights. Before that, the Minister signaled something similar. If the Minister wishes to speak... No. So please, the rapporteur with priority rights and I am still registering Mr Klaška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone here has certainly come into contact with various interest groups on the Civil Aviation Act. It was contact with one group, and this was a group of the Ministry of Defence, that made me think about the question of why the law does not address issues such as the settlement of property rights, the question of operation. So I went after the history of the law, which was going on for many months, and I found that this law went through the whole legislative process, until at one point important passages fell out of it. I adopted these passages because they were dealing with the problems that we are talking about: the question of operation, the settlement of property relations, the approval of operation, the question of rent. But unfortunately, it didn't suit one group. When I came to the conclusion that there was no consensus, I also withdrew this comprehensive amendment. But there was also pressure from Mrs. Ombudswoman, because still the question of ownership relations, settlement is open and is subject to a number of complaints. Then I learned that, forgive me, Snopek wants to privatize for the benefit of private subjects. In short, there's been a series of misinformation, absolutely purposeful. When we look at some of the amendments from the other side, it clearly reads: expropriation for the benefit of the operator. But those weren't my proposals, so it's a 180-degree change of opinion, but the question is what regime. A number of critics did not realize that we have equal forms of ownership in this state, and now there is a serious problem that will have to be dealt with, and it will not be solved in a week. We know that we have Ruzyně Prague Airport, we know that this airport will need some modifications, extensions and increased protection. And we don't have a law here that allows us to make a temporary restriction on property rights, because it's not in any law that applies to airports at all. However, a form of violence that is given there is not exactly what is in line with the current laws. That's my conviction. That is why I am intercede to prevent the release of the law as a whole and amendments on which there is general agreement, because I believe that finding a consensus on others will be very problematic. A number of those who basically walked and lobbied in a positive sense, so no one wanted to retreat, not even an inch. And I see that as a serious problem. Perhaps there are other interests hidden behind some official interests, and that would be the saddest. We have to wait for some of them to go through the trial. I don't want to open some cases here, but even some airports can fall back into the state's lap. The question is, is there interest in some interest groups for such an airport to return to state property? If this discussion continues somehow, I will certainly publish all the cases that I have come to during the negotiation of this law. Thank you for your attention. Otherwise, they report to a detailed debate where I will introduce you to the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u25	There is no detailed debate, but I will invite you in time to propose a procedure. Two factual points. I apologize to Mr Klašek, but I am still pushing him away. Mr Stanjura and then Mr Sedya.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u26	I told Mr. Klašek, two more hours and he'll be next. I'd like to respond to my previous speaker. I discussed this with the representatives of the Ministry of Transport and with the representatives of the Ministry of Defence. And that's supposed to be those interest groups? Let us understand each other. Both ministries are central government bodies, they are not interest groups. That is simply a contradiction in the government between ministers and ministers. It sounded like some nasty lobbyists were talking to somebody. Maybe someone else, but we've been treated properly as a club both with representatives of one ministry and another, and I don't think they're interest groups. I want this place to be very clear. Yes, they have conflicting views. I don't think either side is telling the whole truth. Whether intentionally or unintentionally, I don't dare judge, but that's just the way it is. I will repeat the key question for the Minister. If you want to work this out by the end of your term, do you really want to do it with an amendment to a law that hasn't been approved yet? And we have about eight months until the election, and the law isn't written. I think it's more honest to admit that you've resigned this term. Nothing's gonna happen. It didn't work out in 20 years, so it won't work out. You just won't be saying much, as you usually say in the YES movement, nothing's been done in 25 years, and now that we've come, it's working. After three years, it didn't work out. But I don't blame you. I just don't consider it an honest promise that we'll be able to adjust it by the end of the term. I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u27	Mr. Seďa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u28	Thank you for the floor. Three notes. The first one. Since April nine months, both ministries have had the power to make a deal. She didn't make a deal. Second thing. I only dealt with representatives of the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of Defence, no one else. I must say, I will defend the public interest and the interest of the state. That's the second thing. Three. Minister, support the return of the bill to second reading and you will show that you are a man and you want to solve this fundamental problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mr Chalupa with a factual remark, I ask that you turn your attention to the guest gallery where the delegation of the parliamentary group of friends from the German Bundestag has arrived. It is a group of friends of the Czech Republic and the Federal Republic of Germany led by its President, Mrs Petra Ernstberger. Welcome to the Chamber of Deputies. [[Members are rising. Let's hear it all over the O.R.]] Mr Chalupa has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to turn somewhat against the rapporteur's words, because the only lobbyist group here is a citizen and a defense of the state. So if we're talking about the airports we need to defend the state, and it was said that the military needed it. She needs an army, but the military needs it to be able to protect this state effectively and effectively in case there is a crisis. So I intercede for the Minister to really consider joining the law back into second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u31	Mr. kolovratník reporting? No, he's downloading. And it looks like Mr. Klaška will come, so please have the floor with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u32	Mr President, thank you very much for the floor. Yeah, I get it. Dear Minister, fellow Members, allow me, too, to comment on this law -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u33	Mr. Ambassador, I will ask the groups who are discussing to disband and pay attention to this serious matter. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u34	Thank you. I listened carefully to this debate, which shows that we have encountered quite an interesting and complex problem. And I also have to defend myself or define myself against the phrase of the lobbyist group of the Ministry of Defence. I think one of the fundamental attributes of the state is to ensure the external security and defence of its members, i.e. the state. This was also the fundamental reason why I submitted amendments to the original amendment of the Ministry of Transport, which it envisaged, or allowed existing operators to ask the State to expropriate airport land, possibly infrastructure for their benefit. Thus, it would practically mean that the State will expropriate the state property of another office, which is now ensuring the country's defence. So I did not identify with this, I did not accept it, and I think that this interest today is significantly greater than the interest to expropriate in favour of existing and sometimes private operators. That was one reason. And the second reason is that consciously, because I am an original professional architect or a builder, I find it difficult to identify with the fact that an airport or runway is an area, in court practice it is not recognised as a construction, because it is clearly a construction. It is often built by construction companies, or always by construction companies using various construction machines and building materials, and therefore it is a body, it is a building like a body similar to a transport structure, such as a road or highway. These are therefore two basic reasons why I tabled my amendments. I submitted them to the Economic Committee, which approved them, and then, later after second reading, when I was at an exit meeting of the Budget Committee in northern Bohemia, there was some re-evaluation. I would like to say that, on the basis of the discussion to date, I also support the return to second reading so that the discussion can be completed and the mistakes can be corrected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u35	If this is a proper application for a debate, Mr Kalousek, please wait, because with a factual remark the President Kalousek is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u36	Thank you for the floor. Excuse me, I don't want to enter into this factual debate too much, but there are some concepts that we should be careful not to disoriented ourselves. Mr Klaška said that there was a situation in which the state would expropriate state property from one institution to another. All state property belongs to the Czech Republic. The owner is the Czech Republic and now the institution, the institution, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Defence, has the right to dispose of this property. It is, of course, possible to change the right of management of this property, the owner of which is always the Czech Republic. The idea that the State would expropriate state property that has disturbed Mr Klaška does not have to concern us, because this is not possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u37	Mr Klaška wishes to respond in the form of a factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u38	Thank you for the floor. I think there has already been a discussion about the Pilsen-Lín airport, which is owned by a state that is not properly paid rent, and when landing a military helicopter, the state still has to pay for it. So I think something's not right here either. I think the original novel was really like this. There's no talk of her now, there's talk of other variations now. Really, let's return the novel to second reading and try to fix the issues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u39	Mr Kolovratník with a proper application. And it's the last one entered into the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u40	Colleagues, colleagues, dear guests who are watching us, I wish you good morning. Finally, I decided to speak briefly on behalf of my colleague, Ivan Pilný, Chairman of the Economic Committee, who had become ill with acute virosis. And I want to ask you, as Vice-President of the Guarantee Economic Committee, that we trust our committees. We had the debate very carefully on this law, I believe we addressed it twice last June, last last November, and on the Guarantee Economic Committee by a democratic majority, as represented by representatives of all the MPs, we finally agreed to release, respectively. we will recommend a minimum, if you want a minimalist option that is approved or has a positive opinion only on the amendments made by Mr Snopek, who were prepared together with the Ministry of Transport, and one clarification on the aviation models by Ivan Adamec. We know and are aware that this minimum version does not meet and solve the problems that you often discuss emotionally here today. I agree with you. We know about Lina Airport, we know about Příbram, but I also see it as a consensus between two ministers, possibly a concession from the Ministry of Defence. It was originally - and I repeat it again - the transposition of European legislation, only the basic transposition, and so we agreed on the Economic Committee that at this point we would release it and agree. Of course, it is not my job to speak for executives, for ministers. There's more to it than that. Concerns were mentioned if we could make it to the end of the term. There are possibilities of submitting a parliamentary proposal in the sense that it will be prepared at the Ministry, but some Members will sign under it in quotation marks, prepare it, the faster the process will be. There's more to it than that. But on behalf of the chairman of the Economic Committee and my, the guarantee, I would like to ask you not to return this material for further discussion almost a year later. To approve it today in the minimum version - I repeat, as we agreed on the guarantee committee -. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u41	I have no further applications for the debate. I'll read the apologies. The Prime Minister changes his apology for the entire day. Mrs Válková apologises from 9 to 9.30 for health reasons and Mr Radim Fiala today from 9 to 12 o'clock for the hearing. I'm done with the debate. I'll ask if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. In that case, I ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u42	Mr President, first of all, we have a procedural proposal to return to second reading. We'll vote on that, and then I'll introduce you to the procedure based on the results of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-001-208.u43	Yes, I agree. There's still an application for check-out, so I'm checking you all out, and I'm asking for a new registration. We will be voting on the proposal from Mr Sed, who has tabled a motion to repeat the second reading. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It is voting number 289, registered 142, for 83, against 34, this proposal has been adopted. In that case, we have decided to repeat the second reading of this press and end the discussion of paragraph 208. We will continue with paragraph 217, but also with Mr Adámek's apologies from 16 o'clock to the end of the day and Mr Havíř's from 10.15 to 13 o'clock for personal reasons. So I'm opening a point.
