ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the third meeting of our Chamber of Deputies. I ask for peace of mind, and I note that the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies laid down a proposal for a third meeting on 30 November 2017. The invitation was given to you through the parliamentary clubs on the same day. I'm asking you all to sign up with ID cards and possibly tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. Vice-President Hamáček votes with replacement card No. 3 and with replacement card No. 4 by Mr. Vrána. We shall first proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Petr Vrána. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number one, which I have just begun and I ask who is in favour of identifying Mr Jan Čižinský and Mr Petr Vrána as the verifier of this meeting. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 1, 134 for 131 Members present, against no one. I note that we have designated the verifiers of the 3rd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies Mr. Jan Čižinský and Mr. Petr Vrána. I say that Mr kolovratník has a replacement card number 5. I note that before the opening of the meeting, the following Members asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: President Radek Vondráček for reasons of work, Mr Petr Gazdík for personal reasons, Mr Tomáš Hanzel for work reasons, Mrs Tereza Hyťhová for personal reasons, Mr Petr Pávek for family reasons, Mr Antonín Staněk for working reasons, Mr Vlastimil Válek for work reasons and Mr Marek Výborný from 15.30 for personal reasons. From the members of the government apologize until 16.00 for working reasons Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, for the whole day due to a foreign trip Milan chovanec, for working reasons Minister Michaela Marksová, Minister Karla Šlechtová for health reasons, Minister Stanislav Štěch from 15.45 for work reasons, Minister Dan Ťok is on a foreign trip, as well as Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek, who apologizes at this afternoon's meeting. These are the excuses received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Pražák has a replacement card number 6. We will now proceed to the establishment of the agenda for the third meeting. The proposal is on the invitation, and with regard to the overall discussion of the draft meeting, I have some information from today's political grémia meeting. The presidents of the MPs agreed on the Grémium that we would exclude from today's agenda a proposal for amendments and composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. There were no time limits for Members' clubs to this point, and we could not discuss the point anyway. We also propose that the replies of the members of the Government to written interpelations which are not yet fulfilled should not be included on the agenda of this meeting, i.e. that this item be excluded. But we propose to include a new item number 2, which is a government bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines, as amended by some related laws, the Act on Medicines, as amended, according to the House's Press 5. This is the first reading in accordance with § 90 para. 2. This means that we would approve of him at first reading. This press has retained deadlines, although we originally had the intention to include it in the Organising Committee at the fourth meeting. But because it is possible, the political grémium agreed that we would place this point. Does anyone have any comments about this? If not, it's all on my part, and I'm asking who else is on the agenda. I don't see anyone. We can therefore put to the vote the only proposal that comes from political grémia. I'm asking if anyone cares that we would vote on all proposals at once, i.e. two eliminations and one classification. No one objects to the President's procedure. We will decide in the vote number two, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 2, 166 for 145, against 11, was adopted. And it means that the agenda of the meeting will be a government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018, the House press number 2, first reading, and the government bill amending Act number 378/2007 Coll., on pharmaceuticals, as it was included. These are the points that we would discuss at this meeting, with the fact that if the meeting had not ended, it would have continued on Thursday. After the elimination of written interventions which are not, we would still be dealing with oral interpelations under the Rules of Procedure Act. We can therefore move forward and deal with the first item of the approved agenda. That's what it is.
