ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u1	38. Government bill amending Act No. 181/2014 Coll., on Cyber Security and on the Amendment of Related Acts (the Act on Cyber Security), as amended by Act No. .../2017 Coll., and Act No. 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, as amended /German Press 984/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the Prime Minister, Bohuslav Sobotka, will present the proposal. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, have a good afternoon. The Government is proposing a bill amending the law on cyber security and also a law on free access to information. This amendment was prepared by experts from the National Security Office in cooperation with the professional public and relevant ministries. The government approved this amendment at its meeting on 9 December last year in accordance with its legislative work plan. We are presenting this amendment to ensure the transposition of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 July 2016 on measures to ensure a high common level of security of networks and information systems in the Union. This Directive aims to increase and harmonise the standard of security networks for information systems, on which the functioning of our entire society and the economy is largely dependent today. These networks and information systems are one of the essential elements of the functioning of the European Union's internal market and also a prerequisite for implementing the freedoms that are promoted within Europe. From a factual point of view, the amendment extends the personal scope of the existing Cyber Security Act to operators of basic services, IT systems managers of basic services and IT systems operators of basic services operating, for example, in the field of energy or transport, also to key digital service providers such as e-commerce platforms, search engines and the like. These newly regulated groups of entities are subject to the obligations of the Cyber Security Act, which require them to take appropriate steps to manage security risks, report cases of cyber security incidents to the National Security Authority and other instances. At the same time, the bill reflects comments from the practical application of the existing, effective law on cyber security today. These comments were formulated by representatives of the professional public with whom the National Security Authority discussed the amendment. The bill also includes the amendment of the Act on Free Access to Information, from which an exception to the provision of information in the field of cyber security is deleted, and this exception is being transferred to the Act on Cyber Security. [[15.10 hours]] That European directive must, in accordance with European Union law, be incorporated into our legal order by 9 May 2018. The Czech Republic therefore needs to implement all the necessary measures to improve its readiness to deal with cyber security incidents, to strengthen cooperation with other EU countries. The government proposes the effectiveness of the law from the first day of the second calendar month after its publication in the Collection of Laws and I assume that due to the rapid submission date, the effectiveness of the law should occur within this anticipated transposition period. I would like to thank you for the support of this bill in the first reading, and I would like to ask for its commandments to the Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u3	I thank the Prime Minister and please the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Roman Váňa to take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u4	Madam, honourable Members, Mr President, at this first reading, we will start discussing the amendment to the Act on Cyber Security and other related laws presented to us by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. The proposal complements existing legislation, the pillar of which is the Cyber Security Act. We approved it in 2014. I would like to remind you that we were one of the first in the world to adopt such a law, and so we became leaders in information security. In 2015, the government approved the National Cyber Security Strategy and gradually implemented its action plan. The current amendment will bring our national legislation into line with the Information and Network Security Directive, adopted subsequently by the European Parliament and the Council of Europe after us. [[!?]] The proposal extends the scope of the existing Cyber Security Act to operators of basic services as well as managers and IT system operators in major infrastructure sectors. The aim is to improve the state's readiness to threaten cyber attacks. The law also envisages the possibility of voluntary involvement in the national cybersecurity system for entities outside the designated authorities and persons. Experience in recent years has shown that cooperation with national supervisory workplaces has produced highly positive effects for business entities and the academic or non-profit sector, and that the interest in this cooperation in cyber security through the methodological action of the national supervisory workplace can prevent their own infrastructure from cyber security incidents far more effectively. I would like to recommend this law to the committee's commandment and to the next reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Klán is reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a few words on this law on cyber security. I think it has a little bit to do with the information systems of the public administration. I will therefore propose to order this Committee to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I've already consulted the chairwoman of the eGovernment subcommittee. We would be interested in certain things about how this will be linked. 'Cause I'm saying, there's a connection. We will implement the electronisation of the state administration using electronic civil documents, which we will discuss next week. We would like to know how this cyber security will intervene there, because at the time of the networks it is really necessary - it is necessary - to bring this cyber security to a high level, because various things are spreading across the networks, whether it is xenophobia or in some way today a very quoted Islamic State and its theories. So it really needs to be monitored. I don't have a problem with that. The question is how much this will depend on our electronization of the state administration, because data will also be passed around the network. Then we on the committee would be interested in various aspects of how this will be linked, because this is the transposition of the European Parliament. [[Directive]] So I guess that's it for me in a nutshell. In the debate, I will once more sign up. But I have already announced in advance that I will propose this press to order the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u7	I thank Mr Klán. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I am asking about the final words of the appellant, or the rapporteur, as the case may be. Not interested. I do not see a motion to rebut or reject this bill. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another guarantee committee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the Security Committee's commandment as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 43. 109 Members and Members are registered, for 109, against none. The motion was ordered. I note that this proposal has been ordered by the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Mr Klán proposed to order another committee - the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Mrs Černochová, then Mr Laudát has a proposal. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Given that cybersecurity issues are dealt with alongside the Security Committee as well as the Defence Committee, from the point of view of budgetary claims, which will also arise from the point of view of some control mechanisms, I recommend that we also deal with this bill on the Defence Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u9	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u10	Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you very much to support this law going to the Economic Committee. In fact, thematically, he belongs to both internal and external security. But it belongs too much to the farm. I would like to see the debate on who will be and how to redefine, for example. critical infrastructure, because today network security concerns the public sector, the private sector. Both of these activities of the company will be shared on common networks, cloud structures, etc. Therefore, I beg you. It's very rational for you to send it to the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-020-038.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. If anyone does not have another proposal for the commandment, we will vote on the proposals gradually. First of all, we will vote on the proposal for a commandment from the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 44. 124 Members and Members are registered, for 91, against 7. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, there is a motion on the commandment of the Defence Committee, which I have begun voting on. Who is for the command of the Defence Committee? Who's against it? It's vote number 45. 126 Members and Members are registered, for 116, against none. This proposal has also been adopted. The last proposal is Mr Laudát's proposal on the commandment to the Economic Committee, which I have launched a vote on. Who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee? Who's against it? It's vote number 46. 128 Members and Members are registered, for 117, against none. This proposal has also been adopted. I therefore note that the Security Committee has been ordered by the Guarantee Committee of this Act, and we have also ordered the proposal to the Public Administration Committee, the Defence Committee and the Economic Committee. I'm ending reading this bill first. I thank the Prime Minister and the rapporteur. [[15.20 hours]] The next item is
