ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-08-ps2013-060-04-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the fourth day of the 60th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. Mr Rykala has card 72, Mrs Lorencová 77 and Mrs Wernerová 78. I would like to inform you that the following Members of the Government have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Mr Adamec without giving any reason, Mr Andrle Sylor - working reasons. Mr. Mackovík has a 79 card. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová - family reasons, Mr Babiš - working grounds, Mrs Balaštíková until 12.30 working Grebeníček, Vice-President Bartošek from 12.00 working reasons, Mr Běhounek - working reasons, Mr Benešík - working Vyzula, Mr Šidlo without reason, Mrs Bohdalová - personal reasons, Mr Černoch - family reasons, Mr Číp - medical reasons, Mrs Marková - foreign road, Mr Fiala - personal Novotný, Mrs Fischerová - working Langšádlová, Mrs Schwarzenberg - working grounds, Mrs Golasowská - working grounds, Mr Skalický - personal reasons, Mr Hájek - family reasons, Mrs Halíková - personal Zemánek, Mr Luzar Zahradník - Velebný reasons, Mr Nykl Jaroslav - Okleštěk Zlatuška, Mrs Holík Pavel - working ground, Member Chalupa - working Josef, Member Kádner - personal reasons, Mr Karamazov - personal reasons, Mrs Kovářkováková - personal reasons - personal reasons, Mrs. The Prime Minister apologises from the members of the government for working reasons, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek - working reasons, Minister Herman - foreign travel, Minister Chovanec - working reasons, Minister Jurečka - working reasons, Minister Marksová - working reasons, Minister Štech - health reasons and Minister Zaorálek - working reasons. I have yet to apologise to Mr Okamura between 9.00 and 12.00 for the hearing, Mr Fiedler for the reasons of work and Mr Vojtěch Adam from 11.00 for health reasons. So many apologies. We should begin today's negotiations with solid points 34 and 40. Then we would focus on other points from the third reading block, for which legal deadlines are fulfilled. These are points 33, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39 and 41. However, I will ask if anyone wishes to speak on the agenda. It's not like that. In that case, I'm opening a point.
