ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u1	290. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations And we will have to deal with the problem immediately, because the first written interpellation with which the Member disagreed is the interpellation of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in the case of Government Decree No. 283/2016 Coll., on the establishment of priority transport projects and the current state of readiness of documents for the accelerated EIA mode. It's House Press 962. It's an interrupted point where the interpellation was directed at Dan Took, and it's excused, as I said a moment ago. But, of course, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura claims the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u2	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. At this point, I would consider this interpelation to be discussed, because I have sent two very similar interventions, both to the Minister of Transport and to the Minister of the Environment. Both concerned the approval of priority buildings according to government regulations, the nine buildings. In fact, we had a detailed debate with the Minister of the Environment at the last meeting, and I have already announced in the debate that I therefore consider this interpelation to be discussed. So, as far as it goes and there's nothing to prevent it, I would consider this interpelation to be discussed and I do not require further consultation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u3	Thank you. It simplifies the situation. So we can close this interpellation. I am merely pointing out to all Members the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies, which is that, if the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there will be no reply to the debate and the House will not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. So, in this respect, we can continue by intersecting the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, by intersecting Mr Karel Fiedler on the implementation of the results of the judicial executors' controls. It is the House press of 963 and the adjourned negotiations. I ask Mr Interpelling Member Karel Fiedler if he is interested in expressing himself in the debate. We can begin this interview with Mr Karel Fiedler's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I would just like to start by reading a brief statement from the Minister's reply, so that we can understand and remind ourselves of what I have already mentioned here, and then I will give some additional information about it and let the Minister comment on it. I have intersected Minister Pelikán in the matter of carrying out checks on the executive authorities. The execution of executions, because we see that citizens and obliged people are often complaining about it, not the essence of executions, but the form of executions, and that perhaps everything is not always in order there, which was clear from the answer of Minister Pelikán. So I quote one paragraph. This was the case, for example. in the case of the Executive Office of Český Krumlov, the judicial executor of doktor Marek Frank. The first check of his office was carried out from 14 to 15. 7. 2010 and in the course of this inspection, it was found that the judicial bailiff was led by the Office at a professional level, but his procedure found that an error consisting of an incorrect procedure in calculating the remuneration for execution by selling a movable item, thereby increasing the costs of execution at the expense of the compulsory ones, contrary to the legislation. [[9.10 hours]] To investigate whether the bailiff changed the system of his work, a check was carried out on 20 days. 5. 2014, or about four or three and a half years, and 29. 10. 2014 when it was found that the judicial bailiff, through previous complaints of the supervisory authority, did not abandon his established practice and systematically increased the costs of execution - I add - further. Based on these checks, I filed a motion to initiate a disciplinary procedure with the appointed bailiff. Decision of the Supreme Administrative Court of 13. 5. 2015 was found guilty of disciplinary misconduct and was ordered a disciplinary measure in the form of written admonition. When I also intersected Prime Minister Sobotka on this matter, I received information from him - and that is a question for you, Minister, it was not in your reply, and I assume that the Prime Minister had the answer from you or from your ministry - that there was a proposal and a financial penalty of 500 000 in the proposal for disciplinary proceedings. The Crown, which is not a small amount, and the Administrative Court has abandoned it. As I read from your answer, there was only a written reminder. When I looked into the dates of history, I think that the proposal was probably not from you, that it was from one of your predecessors, that's not relevant at all, that's irrelevant. I have a question about the extent to which an unjustified increase in costs was found by the executioner or the execution office when the proposal for financial penalties was in the amount of CZK half a million. That's one question. Then, in response to Prime Minister Sobotka's oral intervention, when he was not present, I received a written reply. I, too, quote a few numbers to my colleagues in the House about how many executions there are in the Czech Republic. 917,000 people are being executed. Of these, 489,000 have three or more executions, and over 133,000 have ten or more executions. I also have information here - that is the answer from the Ministry of Justice, or your ministry, Mr. Minister - about the number of checks carried out by the executor authorities. Here I was a moment ago - I ask you colleagues to reflect - to quote the number of executions. When we multiply it, 917 thousand people plus multiple executions, the number of checks that were carried out according to the Ministry of Justice's reply from 2013 to 2015 was: in 2013 18 proper and 5 extraordinary checks, in 2014 23 proper checks, one of them repeated, and in 2015 24 proper checks. If I count it this way on the world's flight, it's some 70 controls in a three-year span, the number of executions is over a million times the number of executions. I think this number of checks is absolutely inadequate. After all, this also says it - I have looked at the pages of the Ministry of Justice - that the Ministry of Justice is right to seek persons with legal education to exercise supervision of the enforcement law, but I think it is absolutely inadequate. I also have a government strategy, material where there are some things that concern the struggle with these ills: - strengthen regulatory enforcement measures and ensure additional control of judicial executives, the deadline of the June 2017 Action Plan, - change the system of data provision from the central enforcement record, the deadline from the December 2017 Action Plan, - ensure sufficient data sources for monitoring the debt and debt of persons in the Czech Republic, the term December 2018, - adjust in the law protected account funds out of execution, term June 2017. When I imagine that in the coalition treaty that has been presented, there is a promise that this coalition government will address this issue, and we know that today we already know in January 2017 what the length of the legislative process is, obviously the coalition has no interest in getting the 499 House press on the agenda, which is a Senate proposal that addresses the territoriality of the executors who have been here for more than a year. Several attempts have been made to include him on the House's agenda, but, of course, the votes of the government coalition have never been accepted, and somehow the government has not yet submitted this proposal, and, as I mentioned from the action plan, it certainly does not intend to do so by the summer of this year. I've said it here before in the House, we know logically what it means that the government doesn't want to deal with it, that it was just a false promise to make a comma, that we want to do something, but according to the data I've read right now, it's obvious that the government doesn't intend to do it. For information, the Slovak National Council addressed this proposal and colleagues in Slovakia were able to deal with it three months from the submission of the proposal to the Slovak National Council. After his approval in three months, they're done, and they don't have a problem with that. It was okay. I therefore ask the Minister - I do not agree with the amount and scope of the executor's controls, I ask what his opinion is about whether supervision is sufficient, what his view is that the executor's office, which I mentioned here, I think it was Český Krumlov, according to the Minister's reply, of course I do not blame the Minister, wrongly charged the amounts that were evidently left by the executor's reply to the executor's office. So the debtor here is legitimately prosecuted when he didn't pay his debts, whether they were small or large, just as the people say, he's going to pay it with hair, and even with interest, if it's possible to get it out of him, and this executor's office kept the amounts wrongly recovered and was merely reprimanded. I remind you of my question of how much the amounts unduly collected were when the proposal for a financial penalty was CZK half a million. I think I have said enough at this point, and I will give room for the Minister to respond. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u5	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. The Minister is about to answer. The Minister of Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Members of Parliament, honourable Members, on these issues. First of all, it must be said that the number of enforcement controls is pointless to measure with the number of executions running, but we must measure with the number of executions. We have 158 executors. After the measures I have taken, which is precisely a significant personnel increase in the relevant department, which is in charge of controls, so in 2016 the planned number of checks was not the 25 but the 50. This means that the Ministry basically comes to every bailiff about once every three years. We figure that as we manage to fill the tables that have been added to the relevant department, so we want to increase the number of checks somewhere to 75, which means that every executioner's ministry comes to every executioner at least once every two years. [[9.20 hours]] In addition, it should be pointed out that two years ago, we provided the district courts, each district court, with a new systemized administrative place for the supervision of the bailiffs, because we have shared jurisdiction there. It's not just the Ministry, but it's also the district courts that are authorized to supervise the executors. That means that's over 80 other people, and I assume these people are doing something, too. In other words, I can answer your question by considering the number of checks at the time I came to the office to be absolutely inadequate, but I took the necessary steps, which, of course, could not have had an immediate effect. It takes a while to find people before these people work their way through before the whole thing gets started, but today I believe that the bailiffs on our side are controlled enough. That's the first question. The second question is, what's going on with the results of the checks? It must be noted here that the Ministry of Justice cannot decide for itself what sanctions will be imposed, but if he finds fault, he is merely a disciplinary prosecutor. The disciplinary chambers of the Supreme Administrative Court shall decide on any penalty. And here I really have to say that there is a problem that I am aware of, which I am very, very, very, very sorry to say, but with which I really cannot do much. It is exactly as you said, and it is by far not the only example where we propose relatively significant sanctions in the order of tens or hundreds of thousands of crowns of fine, sometimes even the removal of office, and against this result is a reminder or the result is a fine in the order of thousands of crowns, approximately as if someone parked badly. I don't like it, it upsets me. I believe that, especially in those cases where the remuneration is wrong, the fines must be so high that something like this cannot be paid. That means it must be significantly higher than the error found. But unfortunately, the chastised senators don't share that belief with me. The only thing I can do about it is to constantly propose stricter sanctions over and over again, explain why I am convinced that there is a need for stricter sanctions, but otherwise, unfortunately, I cannot order the disciplinary chambers to decide. At the same time, I must admit that for workers in charge of these controls, it is a source of frustration, because they sometimes wonder how much their work makes sense. The last thing I'm gonna mention is that I, I mean, answered your questions... Still, as to how big the error was, that means how large the costs were. I don't know from my head, but I assume we proposed a half-million-dollar penalty, that it might have been around $50,000, because it's precisely because we're defending the theory that it can't be paid, so we think that the fine must be a sort of multiple of the error found and the likelihood of detection of the error. And that's why we don't check all the files, either, but we're always just checking some sample of the files, even though it's making the personnel boost bigger today than it was before. So some multiple of what we're about to find is the fine we're proposing. The last thing I'm going to say is about our legislative intentions, where these things go much faster than you said. We are here for the amendment to the order of execution, the other amendment to the order of execution, because you know that this House has already approved quite significant shifts in the order of execution, which protects all debtors, and the other amendment that is really essential, and that is why it has given us enough work, so it is already in the legislative process, and we are waiting now for how quickly the Government's Legislative Council can discuss it and then the government. That's the last thing that separates her from the House entrance. And if the House can be as fast as in Slovakia, there is no reason for us not to make it all in this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u7	I thank Minister Robert Pelikán for his reply. I ask - yes, my colleague Fiedler continues to report to the debate. I have no other application for debate on this matter yet. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u8	I would like to sincerely thank the Minister for the sincerity of his answer, that he did not avoid any topic and quite factually and honestly answered what I asked. His answer in this regard pleased me that he was aware of some problems and the state that he is, and at the same time, and I do not blame you, Minister, for that. She scared me in that way that you clearly said there was nothing you could do about it. When I imagine that we were dealing with consumer loans here, which unfortunately is very close to each other, to executions, then non-payments, and I know that I will not name a well-known leasing company when it wrongly charged interest and annual percentage rates of costs, that it received penalties from the Czech Trade Inspection, and here we heard when the Executive Office illegally charged and kept something - and here let's really stop at what it means. It's like keeping funds that don't belong to me. I'll leave it to you, how you think about it in your mind, what word, what it is. You said there's nothing we can do about it. That's awful. That's a terrible and crazy state. And I think that the Chamber of Deputies is a legislative body so that we can work on it. I don't stand up for the mandatory ones at all, if they've made debts, whether out of ignorance, out of stupidity, or on purpose, that's where they're supposed to be, so they're supposed to pay their debts. But we are very often witnessing how it destroys families, how it affects children who are not responsible. I'm gonna check the information that came to me this week from the prisons where the prisoners are obliged to repay the executions. How is it possible that he had 18 - or 28? - or 18, now I don't know exactly, I'm gonna check it out by executing a single transport company? That's what's left me in my head as far as possible. And independently led by an execution from the same executor's office. It's an abnormal condition. It's not logical. I'll check it out, the information. I'm saying it's information that got to me, and I'm really gonna want to check it out. I'm stressing that. But that's a condition I don't think is normal. I don't even consider it normal for the Minister of Justice - and again, I don't blame you, Minister - to quite frankly admit that this is a situation with which he disagrees, which is hard to understand, but that he can't do anything about it. Which I understand. The courts are independent. Though I wonder if they're a little independent. [[9.30 hours]] I'm not a lawyer, I don't want to go into legal fields because it's not my thing. But what we've heard here is really terrifying for me that we can't do anything about it, that some people who really are different right now are rightfully in debt and trouble, and some just out of stupidity, out of negligence, are still earning money on them. And I'm gonna say one more thing about that that I just didn't say today. I held a seminar on this subject, and there it was said by the executive authorities, the greatest that they consider this transferred exercise of judicial power, which is the execution of executions as a business. I'm willing - I'm not willing. I kind of understand when the bailiffs themselves say it. But when I asked Chvojka yesterday from the Human Rights Minister, whom I asked about it, he heard that it didn't bother him that the transferred exercise of judicial power was considered a business, so I was terrified too. That, now don't be mad at me colleagues in the left side of the hall, I don't know if it was from mud to puddle, this exchange. What are we gonna do about it, colleagues? We're the legislature. I have a proposition for you, co-workers and colleagues, especially those from the coalition. Let's put the 499 House press on the agenda, let's get things moving. I don't know how the minister said when the government's gonna get a novel and more, but here we have space. We have a simple material from which we can come up, how to help solve this problem, because the number of executions and how it affects people is connected in my opinion, I don't know if the Minister has the same opinion or not, I'm afraid he doesn't have the same territoriality. And we have a simple material here, ready from the Slovak National Council, we can edit it, we don't have to make things up. They did it in Slovakia in three months. The Minister also said: if the House can do it quickly. Well, I'm mostly talking to those fellow coalition club MPs. Show yourself once that you keep what you promised you wanted to deal with, as you have in the government statement that you want to deal with the territoriality of the executors and the fragmentation of this, and let us let the House press, nota bene primarily from social democratic senators, finally on the House's agenda. I beg you to do this, and I call on you, colleagues, to - as I was pleasantly surprised yesterday, when we were discussing the amendment to the law on aid in material distress, as the House has acted very pragmatically, let us continue to do so. Let's do it again. Let's go to this delicate problem that the Minister himself says is burning and he's sorry and he can't do anything about it, so if we're the legislators, let's deal with it. I beg you - I will not propose any resolution, nothing else, because it will be just talking, talking, talking - let us work on the problem specifically. And it doesn't matter if a comprehensive amendment then inserts into it what the government is putting forward or if we use what they did quickly in Slovakia or something like that, but we have a simple option and you coalitionists, sorry, how to keep your coalition promise. Let us finally release the 499 House Press after a year on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u9	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. If this is not the case, no resolution has been proposed and we can put an end to this intervention. Thank you both to Karel Fiedler and the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. And before we begin our next interview, I am still apologizing to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is from today's meeting until 11 o'clock, Mr Milan Urban apologizes. Another intervention is the interpelation of Petr Bendl on housing for officials of the Ministry of Agriculture of the Czech Republic. Interpelation you have as press 971, the question of interpellation has been suspended into the presence of the Minister of Agriculture. The Minister of Agriculture is here today. I am opening the debate and Mr Petr Bendl has signed up for it, and he is ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u10	Good day, fellow Members, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I've finally seen the Minister come to the answers to the written interpelations, and he hasn't been here twice. I can imagine that this may happen someday, but unfortunately, it happens very regularly with the Minister. Last time he apologized to me about a minute or two before his performance, which I consider a little bit of arrogance of power. I think it might be fair for the Minister, knowing that he wasn't involved in written interventions, to at least let me know in advance, as some of his government colleagues do, who, if they're not at intercessions, I've experienced it with several ministers, so they've personally called me or let me know through the assistant that they won't be and apologizing and that they'll answer some other time. In this matter, I interpelled the Minister orally or wanted to interpel him orally on this matter concerning the provision and procurement of the housing fund for the officials of the Ministry of Agriculture. The minister was not at those oral interventions, so he answered me very vaguely without any supporting documents and figures, so I was forced to send an interview in writing in September last year, which was adopted at some point in October last year, and I asked the Minister because there were many speculations in the media about how the Ministry of Agriculture arranges relatively exclusively from the resources of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture relatively interesting furnishings of individual flats, so I asked the Minister five questions. I asked him: 1. Can you submit copies of the contracts that have been negotiated for this purpose? 2. What reasons led you to make such a decision? 3. In what way and by whom were the apartments chosen? 4. How much money has the Ministry of Agriculture spent on individual flats? 5. What furniture was purchased, how many individual pieces of furniture and equipment did it cost, and who selected it? I have to say, I'm happy with some of the answers. The Minister has submitted me copies of the contracts that have been negotiated for this purpose, he has sent them all to me, it is a very fat package, and he has just described some - here I am no longer completely satisfied - some of the reasons that led him to such a decision. [[shows the bulk of the contracts and lists them]] The Minister referred in his reply to the collective agreement that the Ministry of Agriculture has on the basis of which it follows that the employees of the Ministry of Agriculture can use the service apartments for the duration of their duties under standard rental conditions. The contract is valid for a long time. And he pointed it out to me - here I will point out that the assignment of each department apartment is decided definitively by the Minister of Agriculture and that this was the case in the past, because in particular the area of the Song, where a number of people live, I will say, regardless of the position at the Ministry of Agriculture, a number of high-ranking officials and referents and so on under standard conditions - and I have also checked the rental prices, I think there is nothing to say. However, when I was going through all those contracts, I came across an extraordinary one, and there they will be directing my questions, for that was why I did not agree with the Minister's reply. [[9.40 hours]] In fact, it appeared in the materials, and in the media, speculation about what is or is not true, and this is the equipment of an apartment which the Ministry of Agriculture, which confirmed the Minister's reply, received from the Office of State representation in property matters such as death, the person who owned it, died, had no heir. The state of Smíchov has one apartment, the Ministry of Agriculture has acquired it and this apartment is used by a high-ranking official at the Ministry of Agriculture. That would be understandable if we hadn't gotten to the details I'd like to ask frankly, because you don't get it. In response, I officially received a list of the equipment of this apartment that the taxpayer paid for, and I think it is necessary for the minister to ask you to really know. Liebherr CN Fest 4013 cost 47 056 CZK. That's probably what he's talking about. Because it's from taxpayers' money - I don't know if it's right. Bed double bed built in including bedside tables 47 800 CZK. Wardrobe atypical built-in 61 453,70 CZK. Kitchen line built in atypical 324 941 CZK. Washing machine 19 995 CZK. Dryer 19 995 CZK. Television Panasonic 30 371 CZK. Cube table 17 060 CZK, chair one piece 8 510 CZK, bought 4 pieces for Deputy Minister plus medical chairs for an additional 8.5 thousand. CZK, dishwasher 21 thousand., sofa bed 30 thousand., oven 21 thousand., but also microwave for 7 303 CZK, bathroom furniture 26 thousand., work desk 34 thousand., coffee table - table 18 100 CZK, wardrobe one piece 24 168 CZK, bought two pieces, shelves for 10,5 thousand. CZK, a wardrobe of 20 grand. Horrible! A total price of CZK 1,031 000 for one apartment, which is used by a high-ranking official at the Ministry of Agriculture. On this list, based on my interpelation, I also received a list of the furnishings of the apartment building, which has been used by the employees of the Ministry of Agriculture for a standard period of years, I already talked about it at the beginning, where the Ministry was able in 2014, for example - I will find it - to buy a wooden table for CZK 2,590, whereas in that apartment there was 34,000. The TV was able to buy the Ministry in 2014 for 8.5 thousand, however this apartment has it for 30 thousand. Kitchen line, issued by the Ministry of Agriculture for 324 thousand. In this incriminating apartment for a high-ranking deputy at the Ministry of Agriculture, so in 2009 the Ministry was able to buy it for 18,000. - right here in the song. And I could continue with a really long list that proves that the way the funds are handled in that song is essentially different from the way the Ministry of Agriculture's funds are handled in this case, in this one single apartment. And that's not all, because there were construction modifications in that apartment. But the Minister of Agriculture did not answer the question I asked him, or I did not receive these materials. Because I asked Question No. 4, how much funding the Ministry of Agriculture spent on individual apartments. And since there were construction reconstructions, or reconstructions, I'd like to ask you, Minister, why didn't you tell me that this happened, how much it cost and who did it? I'm very interested. I would also like to know, because there is an internal directive of the Ministry of Agriculture, which says that such small material needs to be purchased by way of the stock exchange, I will say some exceptional small tender so that the costs of the purchased material can be reduced as low as possible. The Minister of Agriculture may grant an exception to such purchases. I want to know if you've given or not given such an exception in the case of this apartment. In case you gave it, why you gave it. Because it's obvious that there are different approaches to these state apartments, and I don't think it's right for something like this to happen. The apartments can be equipped with very decent money and do not have to spend millions of crowns on the fridge for 50 thousand. etc. That really seems like a top-notch arrogant and something that shouldn't be happening. At least so much at this point. Thank you for your answer and for your response to all my questions, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u11	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. The Minister is about to answer. So as soon as he gets to the pitch, I'll give him my word. Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u12	Thank you. Good morning, dear colleagues. Mr Bendle through Mr President, so allow me to answer your questions. In addition to those that have already been sent to you in writing, I will extend some information so that colleagues and colleagues here, as well as those who follow these interpelations and this topic, which around this department apartment of the Ministry of Agriculture, have a more comprehensive view of the matter. You have quoted here a collective agreement in which the support of the Ministry and the employer is accentuated in relation to the possibilities in the case of providing an apartment to our employees. We are trying to do this both in Písnice and at the hostel in Klánovice and here, if necessary, by getting this apartment from the Office of State representation in property matters for the needs of the Ministry of Agriculture. I would like to remind you that the construction works that were carried out in that apartment were carried out on the basis of a public contract to which several companies signed up and won this particular submission of the lowest bid. The construction work carried out on the apartment, but due to the relatively urgent need to move the family, the wife and children of this relevant employee, in this case Deputy Minister, for reasons of time I decided to grant an exception to the equipment of the apartment so that the company that carried out the construction part would also make a purchase of some - I note some - equipment such as the kitchen line etc. [[9.50 hours]] When I looked at some of the prices that you mentioned here, e.g. the said refrigerator or e.g. washing machine, dryer, so when we looked back this morning, when I looked at some of the specific types, they were selected on the basis of a comparison of offers in e-shops, so that the most advantageous offer that was at that time last year was chosen. So for the record, that fridge at the time cost 47,000, today the same type is still on sale, it costs 31,000, so here is the price decrease in time, however, for example the dryer, the exact type that was taken at the time for CZK 19 995, so this morning on the e-shop, as I was looking at, this same type is CZK 21 990, so here on the other hand for this type of appliance is an increase in time. We tried to choose the most advantageous offer in that given the type of time space. Frankly, the minister is not the one who sits and selects the exact type and what the wardrobe will be or what the sofa will be, it is a matter of the Department of Internal Administration that consults the furniture requirements with the relevant users of the apartment space, as well as in the Song, when someone wants to change the bed, wants to change the table and furniture, so of course it takes into account its requirements. Of course, these things are subsequently reflected in the amount of rents that are measured from square meters, from the level of apartment equipment etc. And here, for the sake of correctness, it is clear that the rental prices for the hostel in Písnice are 60 CZK/m2, because it is a different housing category, it is a lower standard of equipment for the rooms, and the rental price for the square metre in the case of this apartment you are talking about is measured at 140 CZK/m2. So there's a clear enough difference, if you were arguing here, for example. buying a table at a lower price. Mostly on the Song are studios or apartment 1 + 1, so it just gives a certain logic of price difference. It's misleading to talk here about being Mr. Deputy Director's apartment. It is the apartment of the Ministry of Agriculture, it is the apartment of this state, which is equipped, at the time when he terminates his service, so it is possible to end this rent, so it is done in the case of others, and there goes to live another possible civil servant or employee of the Ministry of Agriculture. Other resorts also progress in this way that they take unnecessary apartments from the ÚZSVM and adjust them for the needs of their people. I'd just like to point out here, when you're arguing here and you feel like we've been acting uneconomically here, so I'm going to take it straight to this guy, this deputy for the IT and internal activities section. When I look only at the costs of IT since 2009, so for your predecessors and yours, those costs started with IT only at the Ministry of Agriculture for an amount just below one billion. In 2009 it was 957 million, in the year ninety (?) 496 in 2011 443, 2012 599, 2013 567 million. In these five years, the average payment for IT services at the Ministry of Agriculture was CZK 604 million. With the arrival of this deputy and his team of people, over the last three years, we have reached an average payment and the reduction of the IT prices to CZK 291 million. The average difference in the annual billing, Mr Bendle, through Mr President, is CZK 313 million. During the five years of your work, or your predecessors in 2009, I did not count it until 2007 to the beginning of the ODS government Mirek Topolánek, please nicely, the difference in just five years of your inhospitability of your predecessors is 1 billion CZK 565 million. That's what taxpayers should be asking, where you have uneconomically inefficiently wasted it and to which related suppliers. We're talking about buying a fridge that's still owned by the state, so if you want to take this apartment and you're making it a story about the inefficient spending of state funds, look at the activities and your predecessors from the ODS, how they behaved. And I can remind you here, I've told you twice already, take the numbers for the Forests of the Czech Republic, for the IT area, I can add legal services to that. So you are, please, in order somewhere in the amount of CZK 2.5 billion, which you have spent completely uneconomically and inexorably. So remember this. I appreciate my people's work and I try to do my best to them and their families, if they're already sacrificing the fact that they're really responsible for this state, inconsistently, so that they have adequate conditions. Moreover, these people, not only this deputy, but also others who came to the team, came from the commercial sphere and have lower salaries than they had before. This apartment isn't mine. I don't care about the interpretations that were in the media somewhere. I live here at the barracks. Who you live here, you know how the apartments are equipped, I think they're equipped with very modestly. I don't have a family here, so I don't have these needs. When my kids come here, they sleep here on the floor in a sleeping bag, there's no problem with that. So I'm trying to be economical, moderate. But if we invest in state property and we make that investment, I say let's buy equipment that's good quality and reliable and at prices that are the best in place and in time. And this was filled. The exception was granted here for only time and the previous construction works of the company were properly competed. So much for my basic answer to this. It's taken into account in the amount of rents. We will adjust all rental prices for this year both in Písnice and at the hostel in Klánovice and in the case of this apartment with regard to price development in the area of rental property. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u13	I thank the Minister for Agriculture and Petr Bendl is still reporting in the debate. I don't see anyone else yet. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u14	Thank you for the floor. First to IT. If you feel, Minister, that anything which is contrary to the law has happened, it is your duty to draw attention to it and to have it checked, checked and acted in such a way that a remedy or a culprit may be resolved. That's where you fall, and in this respect, I have no problem defending everything I've done at the Department of Agriculture. Some contracts, and you know it well, I inherited, have taken a number of measures that have led to more saving. But that's not what this interpelation is about, it's just you trying to get us off the subject. I'll see you from the beginning. Then I ask, Minister, when I asked you, and one of those questions was what funds were invested, why didn't you answer the fact that the apartment had been renovated and how much it cost and that there was a tender and that someone had won the tender. Why? Why did you keep it a secret when you had to know? What's weird about that? So I ask you again: how much did it cost, and who did it, when was the tender, who was approached? When you say it was. Then you say you're out of necessity because the deputy pushed time, so it was really necessary to grant an exception from not having to buy it, or she could buy a fridge for 47 grand, and not even 12. It's obvious to everyone who goes to buy a fridge, so they choose the type according to their financial choices, but obviously it doesn't matter here, does it? If the big billions are decided over there, we're not talking about ten grand. Well, we will, because this is about the principle of how you treat the funds. It's just the arrogance of power, it's nothing else, it's completely obvious that you're saying here: we're gonna save $50 million, so we're gonna buy the deputy a Ferrari because it's only gonna cost five and that's gonna save us 45, that's great. It's not like that. We'd still say that Ferrari is state property. It's not like that, is it? It's just that the resources are supposed to be adequate, and this is definitely not adequate. Not to mention, if there was such a rush, and I was looking at it and confirming it, the rent your deputy is paying there, it's common. Then I don't understand why, if there was a hurry, why the deputy didn't rent an apartment somewhere else. Anywhere else. And you'd save $2.5 million if the reconstruction cost $1.4 million, or less than 1.4, as I learned from the media, unfortunately not from your interpellation, and you paid one million for furniture, so you could use that money for something completely different, and the deputy could rent an apartment anywhere in Prague on the same terms. And he didn't have to do it, and the state could sell the apartment, and he could still make money off it. He doesn't need it. Here in Prague it is certainly possible to get rent for the funds paid by the Deputy Minister here. [[10.00 hours]] I'm not questioning that. I'm questioning the fact that you made an exception, that you made it in a situation that I don't think was necessary. And even if you did, you could have spared. But basically, you didn't have to do it at all, because the deputy could rent an apartment anywhere else, because the terms are comparable, and you didn't have to do this investment at all. The state could've sold the apartment, and it could've made a lot of money. Why do this? That seems completely misguided to me. So please, one more time. So why didn't you tell me that the investment was there, what was it, what was the final price, who was approached, and when was it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u15	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. The Minister is about to complete the answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u16	Thank you. Mr Bendle, through Mr President, I will take it back exactly the same way. If you have any doubts about my inhospitable actions, then also go and file a criminal report. In the case of your work and your colleagues, some things are being discussed or investigated by law enforcement authorities or even by a court. So let's wait for these things to catch up. And you're here to argue why the exception in terms of time distress. I don't know if it's nice for anyone to move three times a year. If you have a family and children, if you're moving out for three months, because you wait until you write a contract that insists on a resort where we try to make these things run fast, it takes three or four months. And you say at home, look, wait, now we're moving, and in three months, we're moving again exactly the same again. I advocate economy in this, and look at the price of e-shops, when you listed the specific types here that we purchased, even though it was an exception to the directive that I tightened up when I came in, within the limits of the law, so we bought on the basis of the market situation, based on the offer of e-shops for equipment prices in terms of appliances, tables and I don't know what everything, for the best offers offered by the market at that time. I declared it here that yes, some prices went down, which is quite common for electrical appliances, but some prices are higher than we bought a year ago. So this needs to be taken into account. I understand that we're not going to agree here, because you're here to make an ambition on this subject that just isn't. And now I have information from my department director that the information you're asking about was reportedly sent to you in the first letter you asked about. However, the amount of construction work is about 1,300 thousand. Kroner and Restav was doing it. That's the information I just received from my department. Logically, if you want some more detailed information, you haven't heard it today, I'd be happy to give it to you again, but I'm not in a position to know exactly all the details of how these things were purchased. I'm happy to deliver them. I have no reason to hide anything. As I have declared here on the figures, we are moving very transparently. I would just add for my colleagues, when I looked at your work, the IT costs increased even more over the three years. So maybe so much for the sake of clarity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u17	Thank you, Minister of Agriculture. My colleague Bendl is once again reporting for the debate. I'm asking if he'll propose a resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u18	I will. I can't suggest, because at this point, the Minister himself admitted that I didn't get the answer to some of the questions. I can simply prove that I asked, and it is already possible to document in writing from the minutes of the Chamber of Deputies that the Minister says that he is aware that I was sent some information somewhere else by another letter. I deny getting the information I asked about. That means when there was a tender, who was approached, how much it cost, and who won it, I didn't get it. And I didn't get it in the first place in this interview and it is in accordance with the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and therefore I am asking for it. I understand the Minister can't know everything, but that's what a team of people are surrounded by who should be able to answer such things professionally. Therefore, I will ask again by proposing a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies does not agree with the Minister of Agriculture's reply. Plus moving. That's completely ridiculous. If the Deputy Director had rented any other apartment under standard conditions, he wouldn't have to move in three months at all. I mean, it'd cost him the same thing, all the time. He might even have better conditions in that he wasn't obliged to be there for the duration of his duties. The state wouldn't have to buy him a $50,000 fridge! So you're saying you were picking out that fridge in the 50,000-dollar category. But she can buy quality fridges for 12 or 15. That's the core of my poodle or what I'm asking. It's the principle, isn't it? The fact that we're all somehow self-regulating in order to reduce the costs. Here, obviously, Minister. And I'm actually convinced that you didn't pick the fridge yourself, but I'm sure the Deputy Director did. I'm convinced of that. I mean, if I rent it out, I want to know what the state buys me. And if I have a clerk who doesn't really care if he buys a high-quality fridge for $12,000 or $47, who doesn't care, on the other hand, he'd rather be 47, then it's not okay. So the motion for a resolution applies, in particular, with reference to the fact that I have not received the answers to the investments that have taken place there. So if the Chamber of Deputies finally says no, then I will re-interpel, because I will have no choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u19	Thank you. Now also Mrs Marie Pěnčíková, then Mr Minister. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u20	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would just like to justify why I will support my colleague Bendl for one simple reason, Minister. Because you didn't realize when you said in your reply to your colleague Bendl that you answered some questions in writing as part of his oral questioning at the September hearing, we do not have the answer. So I didn't know the answers to questions 3, 4. That is why I will not agree with your answer either, although I think that I have studied the documents available as the House quite thoroughly. So thoroughly that I learned that Michal Gola is your expert officer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u21	Thank you. The Minister of Agriculture has declared himself in the debate. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u22	I always say with all humility that my eyes are open, and if we haven't provided them responsibly, fully, we will deliver them. So let the Chamber of Deputies consider whether or not to accept my answers, or whether or not Mr Bendl will re-interpel the question in paragraphs 4, 5. If we have any doubts, I apologize for that, I have no problem admitting these things at the moment. I just want to make a strong point here in the end against the fact that we haven't progressed economically. We all know here, if we buy electrical appliances, that there are different not only price levels, but of course different qualities. And the Liebherr brand is one of the poorest, most reliable we can have in this segment. And then the lifespan of the fridge is also multiple times that of some others. However, there are appliances in the list, which could also have been significantly more expensive. So I think there's just one type, a fridge, I know washing machines, dryers of significantly more expensive categories than they've been bought into this apartment's equipment. And I'm going back to the fact that the equipment is state. However, for the record, I wouldn't recall the apartment like this, and that's how I factored it out for the people who decided on the apartment's equipment. And I strongly said that no one can afford that kind of equipment again. [[10.10 hours]] I live, I think, reasonably, quite modestly. When I take someone upstairs to visit, they wonder what conditions a person lives in, but I don't mind at all, I just come here to sleep. I'm here to work, not use the apartment. That's all. Please let the Chamber of Deputies decide by vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u23	Thank you, Minister. We have a vote in front of us on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Petr Bendl, who is intercessing Member. We will decide in the vote order number 61. I'll get some more to summon those who are interested in making decisions. The decision is simple if the Chamber of Deputies disagrees with Minister Marian Jurečka's reply to Mr Petr Bendl's reply. I have begun the vote and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Bendl. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 61 of the 91 Members present for 27, against 23. The motion was not accepted. This interpelation is terminated. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Zdeněk Ondráček to the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán on the evaluation of the staff in justice. It's printing 980. I'm opening the debate. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I submitted a written interview in mid-October to the Minister of Justice on a salary assessment of the justice staff, when I mentioned what the judge's salary is after his appointment, and you know that it is about CZK 70,000 a month. In addition, I have assessed how judicial and judicial waiters are paid, that is, those college-educated people who are just waiting to meet the conditions for the President to appoint them as judges. These waiters are paid in order of 50 thousand less, at the border of 22, or 24 thousand crowns a month. I do not value this wage and I gave it merely as an illustration to show what the great differences in justice are. In addition to these college-educated people, however, high-school educated people are also employed in justice, who hold administrative positions, without which most judges would not be able to exercise their judicial mandate. I mentioned, for example, the reporters in the courts, when such a reporter who has a high degree and can write very well, has some registrar from writing or can, and now I can't remember what our writers do - rather not remember, thank you - such a graduate writer will earn 13,000 crowns of rude in our court. [[a note from the auditorium]] And I said in such an exaggeration to the Minister that when the Ministry of Justice has the power to buy design office chairs from Vitra for 10 and 17 thousand crowns, respectively, for one piece, there would certainly be funds to increase the salaries of these lower court officials, accountants and other administrative staff. The minister replied to me in writing, assessing how they are paid by judges, how demanding they are - we could discuss this here, perhaps even for a long time, but I do not want to steal time from you, Mr. Minister - and he replied to me that, and listen well, a writer with a practice of 12 years, that means no beginner girl, a lady who is at least 30, 31 years old, earns CZK 13,680 in sixth grade as a reporter in court. I repeat: 13 680 crowns gross. Subtract taxes from it, health and social, such a writer will take away the beautiful 11,000 crowns. Excellent salary, isn't it? I'm sure we'd like to work for that. When the Minister himself mentions that there are certain other professions where they are overpaid today, and when you look at any advertising of some business chains, so for a person without a high school education with a graduation, only with a basic education, he offers work for 25 to 30,000 crowns gross. At least once as much as the writer earns at the district court or district court in the Czech Republic. The Minister also failed to mention that the 13 680 is not her full salary, because there are still non-demanding components of salary, such as a personal supplement and possible remuneration. Believe that a personal supplement, if such a writer has, is in the order of units of 100 crowns, you cannot expect it to be five or seven thousand to be half of her salary. The Minister also said, when we spoke outside the Chamber, that he had conducted a thorough investigation and that none, respectively, found one Vitra design chair at the Ministry of Justice for CZK 17,000. We talked about it. I told the Minister that justice is not just his ministry, so the Minister understood and sought out. He assumes that I meant the Municipal Court in Prague, where these office chairs, if you want to see what ordinary offices are equipped with, and each office is equipped in hundreds of thousands of crowns. So maybe the writer's sitting on a chair for 17,000 crowns, maybe she's sitting on it well for her hard work, but she's taking home 11,000 crowns. Perhaps this is not an easy way for a writer who has a typist who has other administrative skills to support her family. I presented this in order to think about it, because we have substantially different salaries, and now the government has decided, by making the economic situation better in the Czech Republic, that it would like to add to the civil servants. He will add this to the teachers, he will add it to the doctors, the members of the security corps, we will discuss it in a few minutes, both inadequately, but the writers who carry out the largest part of the administrative work in every court and without whom the judge cannot judge, and we know that the main trial is adjourned precisely for the absence of writers, so in CZK 13,680, I must say, girls, I take a bow in front of you for what crippled money you work for this state. So, Minister, I'd like to hear from you here, too, on the microphone, what are you going to do about it? Because if these girls decide and leave, the justice system in the Czech Republic will collapse. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u25	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and ask the Minister. Yes, Minister Robert Pelikán is ready to answer. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u26	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I would first like to correct some of the inaccuracies that have been raised here. In particular, this concerns the absolute level of the salary of the writers. It is true, and I said it in my reply that the tariff salary of a writer with a practice of up to 12 years, or not 12 years, but up to 12 years, i.e. two years, is 13,680 crowns, but that really belongs to non-interest components and they are not a few hundred crowns, they are on average 3.5 thousand crowns. That means, on average, the writer comes to CZK 17,180. Well, frankly, ladies and gentlemen, I don't mean that it's a miracle, but I did consider it necessary to clarify this, because the difference is and is not completely irrelevant. What am I gonna do about it? In fact, it is not a matter at all that I can solve, because the salary of writers and non-disciplining staff is not regulated by any regulation that is in the Gesture of the Ministry of Justice, but by a very general salary table, which addresses the level of salaries according to qualifications for the entire public sector. So we're in it, I'd say one percent maybe of the ones that are related to the table. And I certainly wouldn't have fought back if those salaries had gone up. Of course I'd like that. I'm just wondering where we can get it. What we are trying to do is at least allow the writers to advance to another grade if they increase their qualifications. In this respect, we have achieved a change in the work catalogue, so if they learn to work with some applications, they can get to other money. And otherwise, as I say, it is a matter of the overall level of salaries in the public sector, especially in less qualified positions, and that question must then be directed towards somebody else entirely, most likely the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which, as far as I know, has this question in its sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u27	Thank you, Minister Robert Pelikán. President Hamáček has a replacement card number 31 and colleague Zdeněk Ondráček is applying for an additional question as part of his interpelation. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u28	Yes, thank you. I will correct you, Minister, because you state that it is with practice under 12 years, 6th grade, 6th grade. If it's a sixth grade, there can't be two years' practice there, as you say. So it's not 0-12, it's going to be rising after some two or three years, just like other civil servants, so there might be a 9-12 margin, but there's definitely not gonna be a young writer at the age of 21 who's got that kind of salary. And if we're talking about making money, as you say, up to CZK 17,000, and where you're supposed to take it. I think, above all, that they are your employees, and you should, with your party colleague, the Minister of Finance, or the Government, initiate this money, these funds, to be found and to those people who carry out the greatest share of administrative work in courts to find these funds. And if you go within your department, you can move from the furniture chapter where every office in the courtroom doesn't have to be, possibly. A judge equipped in the order of a quarter of a million crowns, can sit quietly on a chair for 4,000 crowns and not for 17, and the funds would certainly be found in the resort as well. So it's up to you in the Justice Department system not to collapse, because you're really - and you know it yourself, that a number of major trials are canceled, possibly. They're moving precisely because the writers and the dissenting staff are simply absent from the courts. You know that, and I'd expect you to deal with it. I will not propose a resolution. I am glad that you, other colleagues, had the opportunity to hear for what money some people in the Czech Republic work for the state. And if that's appropriate, you'll have to consider that for yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u29	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. I don't see anybody, I'm done with the debate, and I'm done with this interpelation. The last response to the written interpelation today is the response of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interpelation on the real development of the wages of security forces. Interpelation has a print of 981. I am opening the debate, but the Prime Minister is duly excused, so I ask my colleague Ondráček to comment on whether he wants to discuss it without the Prime Minister's presence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u30	Thank you again, Mr President. Yes, I will, because there are enough colleagues and colleagues to discuss this interview without the Prime Minister's presence, because I know how he has access to the interventions and how he comes here. I saw it at the end of the year. And I don't want to wait six months or until the end of my term. It's his attitude, and sticking our heads in the sand isn't gonna solve the problem. So allow me, fellow Members, to introduce you to the questioning and to the reasons for the refusal. I also gave a written interview to the Prime Minister on purpose in October. I didn't want to intersect the Home Secretary, although I was talking about police and security officers, because the Home Secretary is a small man. I was talking about the Service Act, Law No. 361/2003 Coll., on the challenging occupation of police officers and members of the Security Corps and on the development of their salaries, their wages, and I have mentioned the problems that we have talked about here in the Chamber of Deputies many times. The Prime Minister answered me, and I do not only disagree with the answer, although there is everything there in content, but there are certain things that need to be heard on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. I am, and I have until the end of the interview with the beautiful thirty minutes, the answer, virtually. divided his comments on rejection into ten points. I'll start first. Salary tariffs and a comparison of pay rates. In general, you may know that the security forces have turned to many of you and told you, respectively. They wrote to you about their salaries and asked you what you, as representatives of the political parties, would do to ensure that the demanding profession of a member of the Security Corps was also properly evaluated. You got the letters, some of you responded to them, some of you didn't. Some of the answers were like copycats, because the answer was provided by the Ministry of the Interior. [[10.30 hours]] We know, and I'm sure the Prime Minister here would say that there's been an increase in the salaries of the security forces. I'd say it's not a raise, it's still a return to what's been taken away. In one of the interpelations that my party colleague Miroslav Grebeníček submitted to the Minister of the Interior, the Minister replied that - I quote the Minister of the Interior: If we consider 2010 as a starting point, there was a decrease of 10 per cent in 2011. In 2012 and 2013, the tariffs did not change. In 2014, there was an increase of 3,5 %, an increase of 4,5 % in 2015, an increase of 4% in 2016. There is still talk of an increase, but it is a return to the state before 2010, respectively. 2011. If you compare the tables with 2010 and 2016, respectively. from 1. 1. 2017, so the Minister himself states: It is true that the income of a police officer in the fifth grade with 15 years' experience, a police officer who can therefore apply for termination of service and can leave with the right to retain, so the income of such a police officer has increased by CZK 300 since 2010. So six years from now, a security guard's salary went up by 600 crowns. It is clear from this that, with the development of inflation, the salaries of security forces members are below the fair value as in 2009 and 2010, when the flat-rate reduction occurred. The Minister also states what constitutes a service income. And I dare to remind myself. The service income consists of several components which we can divide into entitlement, which are made up of a basic tariff, these are tables which are ordered by the government. The government's last order is No. 330/2016 with effect from 1. 1st of this year. Then it is a basic tariff, a special surcharge, some call it a risk, a management fee, and, in the case of services abroad, an extra charge for service abroad. Furthermore, they are non-interest components of a salary that are a personal supplement and a reward. If we're talking... that special bonus as such - risky, has two groups, in a group from three to six thousand and from a thousand to four thousand crowns. In Prague, members have a risk premium of 6,000 in direct output. In most counties, it's about 3.5,000 crowns. There's only the police officer or the officer in charge who has an extra charge. So it's just a limited number of people. The personal supplement, which is referred to as a non-claim salary component, is, and gives it to me in response by the police president, on average for the entire police CZK 2 757. 2 757. If you count that the commander's personal supplement is ten, twelve, fifteen thousand crowns, you can ask the officers here what personal supplement they have when you leave the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. They will answer you that in the order of 100 crowns, tops thousands of crowns. The Minister also stated in his reply that the service income should include the service income provided for the overtime service to which the member is entitled, who has not been granted leave for overtime for more than 150 hours per calendar year. On the outskirts, the Minister also mentions that the government has already prepared an amendment to the Service Act, which has the duty to remove 150 hours free of charge. The Minister mentioned that the upcoming amendment to the Service Act will also provide additional benefits for police officers, but I will not comment now, because we will get to that at another point, what it will eventually be a win for those members, or perhaps rather a loss. The next item I would like to draw attention to is recruitment. Recruiting the police. I'm sure you'll recall when this government said it would raise the police's spreadsheets by 4,000 spreadsheets, 4,000 police officers. It spread out within five years with the fact that recently the media announced in mid-December, published an article Come to the Police, luring the Homeland. The inmate misses thousands of people. And it says: Although the government criticizes some low-wage firms, it itself is not able to provide an attractive salary for key civil servants. It is the low start-up wages that are one of the main reasons why there are not enough high-quality applicants in the police ranks. This year - meant in 2016 - 850 newcomers were expected to start according to recruitment plans. Really, however, there will be less than 400, reported in mid-December last year. Minister Chovanec said: The starting salary of a police officer or firefighter is somewhere in the range of 17 and 18,000 at a time when some business chains offer CZK 25,000 for the warehouser's position. Clearly, the desire to enter the ministry is lower. It follows that the Minister of the Interior is aware of the lack of salary assessment of police officers. In another answer to a similar subject, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka replied by representatives of a trade union organization: As the statistics show, the number of police departures in this year - again in 2016 - year compared to last year is really slightly higher. However, these data do not deviate from the average of recent years. Prognosis and qualified estimates indicate that the average of each year leaving members is approximately the same. However, due to current developments in the labour market, the conditions for acquiring new applicants are changing. It should be noted here that the labour market offer is so extensive that the selection of new candidates for the Czech Police is not a matter of one or two years, but it is a permanent task requiring patience, planning and spending considerable resources into a sophisticated approach to the young population, which needs to be offered a perspective, permanent employment and for the activities carried out corresponding to financial evaluation. Well, I guess I'd learn something like that if the Prime Minister were here. And I couldn't be here again. So maybe it's better he's not here. The Prime Minister basically knows the problem is. He can name it beautifully. He can describe it beautifully, but he doesn't really solve it. And now what are the actual data and numbers? In 2016, when the government of the Czech Republic announced that it wanted to accept at least 800, 850 new police officers, 1,621 new police officers joined the service, but 1 309 also terminated the police service. So the real situation is that the police force was strengthened by 312 new men and women. As far as civilian workers are concerned, it is 24 persons. However, there are places or regions in the Republic where there is an outpost. Such regions are Vysočina, the region of Moravian-Silesian and Olomouc. There are 431 police officers missing in Prague. The planned condition is thus fulfilled at 93.3%. [[10.40 hours]] If you look at the Police Presidium statistics, you can compare the staffing of individual units, and you will learn that, for example, there are 12 more people sitting on the Police Presidium than the planned table status. Probably good offices, good hot spots, but no one wants to be on the street. This afternoon we'll be discussing a reorganisation, a merger of two units. The current National Center against Organized Crime is supposed to have 870 seats, but it has 797, which means that 73 members of this elite unit - the term elites use, I don't think so much after my experience - is missing. The filling capacity of this unit is 91.6 %. Worse still, and consider for yourself if that's right, it's at the Foreign Police Services Directorate, where the spreadsheet is 1,256 police officers, but the actual registered status is 909. There are 347 missing cops. The fulfilment of this service is 72,4%. Services that can be very busy in the event of problems with the migration crisis. Now, what are the reasons for leaving and how the police will survive on duty? Police officers, according to the age of the service, leave in 35 percent, meaning in more than one third, up to 15 years of service, until they are legally entitled to the allowance. If you ask these cops, even those who leave after why they leave, if it's such a perspective, and there are those bonuses that we talked about yesterday compared to city police officers, I'm not happy with the police anymore. And you don't want to hear what's next. If we compare the age of departure, 74 percent of police officers leave within 50 years of age. You could say yes, that's what the allowance is for. However, the striking thing is that under 40 years of age, which is a police officer, a man or even a woman, in the best physical condition, full of expertise, when the state should take advantage of what the state has invested in it, 44 percent of the Police of the Czech Republic are leaving within 40 years of age. What numbers are these, I'll leave you to your evaluation. I called the next point "but they're gonna make it." It is precisely because of the bases that there are various spills of power and resources, people are missing and new people are either in schools or, if necessary, on foreign missions, but they are simply missing where they should not be missed. I prepare an interpelation where several times mentioned permanent order or special order unit Prague, which serves four days in twelve-hour services, then has four days off and thus continues its cycle, so in the first period of its cycle after four consecutive twelve-hour services, it passes to the Prague Castle, where it serves four more services from its leave, maybe until overtime, and continues another four days of service at its home office. Twelve days straight after 12 hours! If you ask these cops, they'll tell you: I don't care about money anymore, I have my family, I have my health. But the service must be filled and take where it takes when the cops aren't. It's Prague. [[unintelligible]] If you ask in your home districts, they'll also tell you that there's a police officer in the District Night Service who closes the department at night, gets in the car, goes to the next department, where he picks up a similar police officer, who also serves himself to patrol at least in two, and connects his circuits in one. Two cops on two police circuits. And it's not a chimera, it's an example from my county. I could also mention the problems - we talked about them quite often - ballistic protection, equipment components and other things. I'm not going to discuss this anymore because it would be useless. The next item is 150 hours. Will they be cancelled, as the coalition treaty says? If you look into it, colleagues from the coalition in particular, in point 11 of Section 11.2 at the last point you have written: We will enforce a systemic change in overtime reimbursement so that the obligation to serve 150 hours a year without any remuneration or spare leave applies only to legally declared crisis situations and emergencies - floods, terrorist threats and so on. It's your coalition contract that you signed in 2014. We're in 2017 and you haven't done anything yet. In order not to wrong you, an amendment to Act No. 361, which deals with this, but we are at the House meeting in January, this House press is not here, and you know what the legislative process is. This material has passed in recent days, perhaps at the beginning of this week or at the end of last week, by the government. There is interesting material, with the launch of the 150 hours, but the total amount of overtime service must not be more than 10,5 hours per week on average during the balancing period, which may amount to a maximum of 52 weeks consecutive. I read it, like, three or four times, but I didn't understand what the petitioner was giving them. Maybe it's a little camouflage, because I say every initiative has to be punished. And when you look at the commentary material of this particular novel 361, the Ministry of Finance's workshop says - a fundamental comment, I note: The basic service of the member is 37.5 hours a week, while for others it is 40. So if the possibility of paying overtime up to 150 hours a year can be considered, it can only be accepted under the following conditions - it is written in the Ministry of Finance material. First, the basic service period will be increased from the current 37.5 to 40 hours per week. If you calculate it fairly simply, if you increase the basic service times from 37.5 to 40, which is 2.5 hours a week, multiply 52 weeks a year, you are at a beautiful 130 hours, so each member serves 130 hours extra and basically serves even those who sat in offices and did not put those 150 hours in so-called greens. Those who gave them will actually serve them out of the law, and saving 20 hours is certainly not important to them. Of course, if we mention problems, such as declaring a state of emergency, it's been a year and something in France, in which case it would be an extraordinary event under the law and 150 hours would be written into green so-called later. I think this hiding, this crucial comment, which is here from the Treasury and which I don't know how the Ministry of the Interior or the government will accept, is a good idea. I'd say it's more awful for police officers and other security forces, because another 130 hours a month, you're gonna legalize them into serving them. So basically no 150 canceled, but law plus 30 hours. [[10.50 hours]] Recruit, another file. The proposed material from the Interior Minister's pen speaks of a recruitment contribution. And a recruitment allowance could be between 30 and 150 thousand. CZK and would be dependent on the head of the security corps, that is, on regional directors. In general, it is already known that it would only be for members of Prague and the Central Bohemia Region. The Minister... or the comments disagree. I would like to mention, and yesterday it was also said that the Municipal Police in Prague offered a new officer of 100 thousand. recruitment allowance, when 52 thousand. pay one-off and the remaining 48,000. then a month in his salary for two years. City police in Brno, I think they're paying 30 grand. Crowns. I would also like to mention the other benefits that are. In 2014 and 2015, the Council of the City of Prague provided police officers with a housing allowance, transport allowance, meal vouchers, as well as a risk premium. And it was mentioned here yesterday, an officer of the Municipal Police in Prague today has a starting salary of 28 thousand. CZK, a member of the Police of the Czech Republic, who decides to serve in Prague, has 20 thousand. CZK plus is disadvantaged by the fact that it does not have a contribution to housing, transport. They'll give him a dormitory, that's true. So the recruitment allowance as such will only be for selected regions, Prague and Central Bohemia. If you decide to serve in Zlínský, Královéhradecký, you will probably not receive a recruitment allowance, but you have the possibility that you will be transferred from the law and you will end up in Prague anyway because 431 members of the Police of the Czech Republic are missing in Prague. And when there are regions that I've mentioned that have a superstructure, it's not the only problem with ordering such an officer to go somewhere else. There is talk of increasing the risk premium for police officers. It was mentioned that a member in Prague should have up to 10 thousand. Crowns. Maybe even in Central Bohemia. It's a material that went through the Police Presidium, but it's already resisted by regional directors today because they know what it would mean if a police officer in the same grade came to Prague to serve: a large tide of already missing police officers in individual districts, in individual district departments. So increasing the risk premium only in Prague or the Central Bohemia Region by thousands of crowns is the way to hell. You may solve the problem in Prague, but you will kill regional headquarters and individual districts. And we're getting close to the conclusion, the last seven minutes, the debts. Thank you to all who voted to abolish the tax exemption. We fixed the matter that was from the reign of Petr Nečas from Miroslav Kalousek's workshop. Surely, though, we should consider whether some of the benefits are immorally high, and journalists can grab on to them. I could mention the former head of the security corps, General Červíček, or Mr. former Colonel Bílek, whose debts are in order... almost in the order of our salaries, not to say the specific amounts, even with the valorisations we gave them. If they shouldn't be a way to calculate the benefits so that for some, some chosen, they wouldn't be so immorally high, which makes a bad picture of the police or security forces as a whole. I'd mention one more material that I don't know if I'm having fun right now, but it's just here on the table. It is an audit of national security, comprising 138 pages of text. It is another material from the Ministry of the Interior workshop, which can well analyze all the problems that are, but does not offer, does not offer a specific solution to the unhappy state. So I would recommend to the Ministry of the Interior more attention to serving police officers than to create another hundred pages of any forms that are of minimal value to an ordinary police officer and citizen of the Czech Republic. Believe that such a national security audit will not ensure security for you and the citizens of the Czech Republic in the streets. I also mentioned somewhere on the microphone that the soldiers of the Czech Republic have their active backups, firefighters have their active backups in the form of voluntary firefighters, in the form of voluntary firefighters who can board at any time, but security forces have no such option and only the Army of the Czech Republic can be called if necessary. Imagine a situation in one prison where there may be an epidemic and a quarantine situation will be needed and one third of the prison service members will be gone. Who's gonna replace them? I proposed and wanted to debate that each Security Council should have from its former members active backups, which could be called up if necessary and in an emergency. This is a matter for discussion and I would like us to have such a discussion. And what are the conclusions? In the last few minutes. On January 9th, the Home Secretary declared publicly: The police will receive a tenth extra salary and lose overtime. It's what he said. Of course, the police caught on because they can imagine that their basic tariff will be increased by 10 percent. I would ask the Prime Minister, because I have read the 10 main priorities of the Czech Social Democratic Party in 2017 from 10 January, where security is also a priority, but whether such an increase has been discussed and whether it has enough funds to cover such an increase since 1 July. I certainly intercede for this to be a 10 per cent increase, but I would not like it to be merely a false pre-election promise, as is said here about the amendment to Act 361, which still has not entered the Chamber of Deputies, and its possibility of a legislative process is so seriously threatened and it is not necessary to wait for police officers even until the end of the parliamentary term of this Chamber of Deputies. Mr President, Mr President, I see there has been an exchange, I will ask for the interruption of this interpellation to the Prime Minister's presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u31	Yes, we will decide that by voting. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees to interrupt this interpellation into the presence of the Prime Minister? Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 62. It's registered 115, for 46, versus 18. This proposal has not been adopted. In that case, we will continue to discuss this interpellation. And I ask who else is reporting for the debate. If there's no one here... and I'm sorry, Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u32	Thank you. Prime Minister. But that's very illogical, because the Prime Minister wasn't here, it's an interpelation written for the Prime Minister. And I don't think it's possible for any of these things, although I can agree with a number of things, to disagree, the Prime Minister doesn't have a chance to answer. I don't understand why when we always do that in the absence of an intercessed minister interruption until next Thursday, why this time should be different. In this respect, I insist that the Rules of Procedure allow this interpelation to continue to be discussed, and I believe that, by the eleventh hour has passed, the interpellation has not been completed and that we will discuss it within the next term of written interpelations. It's 11:00 p.m. and the interpellation is interrupted without ending this interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u33	Yes, it's 11 o'clock, which means the time for a written interpelation is over, and this interpelation is interrupted, and so I'm going to end this point and we're going to continue according to the approved agenda of the meeting. I'll read the apologies. Mrs Berdychová apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Pilný also apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Volčík apologises between 14.30 and 18.00 because of his visit to the doctor and Mrs Zelienková apologizes because of illness. So many apologies. With priority rights, Mr President Laudat.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want you to update your schedule tomorrow, if necessary, that at 9:00 a.m., I'll request a break at the TOP 09 meeting for 35 minutes, which means 9:35 a.m., so you know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u35	Yes, so the House will start acting tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. 35 minutes. Furthermore, President Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u36	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to load one change on tomorrow's day, to include a third reading of House Press 873, which is a government bill amending certain tax laws, and a second amendment to exclude paragraph 203 from the agenda, House Press 715.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u37	Yes. Next on the agenda? If there is no one to report, we will decide on the proposal of President Sklenák. He wishes for tomorrow after fixed points, meaning as the seventh point to include the third reading of printing 873. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 63, registered 125, for 72, against 3. The motion was accepted. And the second proposal is to remove item 203 from the agenda, press 715. [[Dissenting screams and noise from the diaper.]] Oh, there was a renumber, so it's point 215, print 715. So we all know what we're voting on. Initiating vote, I ask who's in favour. [[Inconvenient noise and screams from the diaper.]] Point 212. Who's against it? Okay, well, I'm gonna declare this vote confusing, because my colleagues on the right are asking questions about what that point is. So I declare this vote confusing, and I ask President Sklenák to comment on that point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u38	Yes, I'm sorry I didn't specify. It's a government bill amending the Public Health Insurance Act. It is a point that is firmly placed at the moment for tomorrow as a third reading, and it is in agreement I would say across the House that we would not want to vote on it again tomorrow, so I suggest we take it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u39	So, is that an explanation? [[Disadvised noise.]] Mr. Chairman Kováčik, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u40	Madame and gentlemen, good day to you. As across the House, there may be a lot of things, but in that case, the big one was left out, but still the horn, because we're not there across the House, no one consulted us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-001-290.u41	Okay, but I feel like we need to decide the vote that I started, and I'm asking who agrees with the elimination of paragraph 212, House Press 715. Who opposes this proposal? It's vote number 65, registered 135, for 87, against 29. The motion was accepted. Mrs Kailová votes with card number 54. I believe I've put the vote on all the proposals that have fallen. That's right, and in that case, there's nothing stopping us from opening the point.
