ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-005-222.u1	222. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Council of Europe Convention against Trade in Human Organs (Santiago de Compostela, 25. 3. 2015) /house print 1028/ - first reading I will ask the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, under the authority of the Government, to present this press. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-005-222.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are coming to the next Council of Europe Convention. This time it's a fairly fresh convention signed in Santiago de Compostela 25. 3. 2015. We are leaving the subject of terrorism to get to the subject of no less serious, and that is trafficking in human organs. The aim of this Convention is, of course, to prevent such trade, in particular by criminalising the relevant acts associated with trade in human organs for the purpose of transplanting them. Our legal order is in principle consistent with everything the Convention provides, except for a few minor and rational exceptions, where the Convention also allows us to do so. a reservation, and we make this reservation, namely Articles 4, 5 and 10. If I take it from behind, Article 10 concerns the circle of persons we commit to prosecute by our criminal law, and that is a rather classic reservation when we, our criminal law, cannot prosecute crimes committed outside our territory by people who are not our citizens. So in this we make this reservation. Two more reservations, that's content. As far as Article 4 is concerned, our transplant law, I think, makes it very reasonable under exceptional circumstances to collect renewable - I stress renewable - tissues from the body of an incompetent, especially a child. If the recipient is a donor sibling, it represents the possibility of saving the recipient's life, while there is a legal representative who gives consent, the Ethics Committee gives consent and the donor does not disagree. So in this respect, we need to make this reservation so limited and that is what we are doing. The second reservation relates to the fact that the convention also puts in place that, in the event of such criminal acts, the organs, cells or something will not be used in any way. And our law allows such confiscated tissue to be used exceptionally for science, and it would be a shame if it were not possible. So that's the second reservation we make. I also ask for support in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-005-222.u3	I thank the Minister for his opening words. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Jan Farský, from today from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Mr Pavel Havíř, from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Mr Šincl, Mr Ivan Pilný, for working reasons for the whole day and Mrs Chalánková between 10.00 and 13.00, apologies for the negotiations between 12.30 and 19.00. I therefore now ask the rapporteur's word for the first reading of Mr Pavel Plzák. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-005-222.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, members of the government, this convention responds to the fact that illegal trafficking in human organs in the world has really become a major problem which, on the one hand, harms human health and, on the other, violates human rights. We all know what is going on in China, for example, with some convicts to die, that some people in the poor regions of the world are selling their organs to richer people or to richer states, and this is what this Convention is trying to respond to. [[12.10 hours]] In 2008, the Council of Europe and the United Nations agreed to map the area of this trafficking in human organs and to have a study drawn up. As a result of this study, it was stated that international regulation of this area did not affect this issue throughout its scope and that it would be appropriate to adopt a comprehensive international regulation. This amendment was submitted and approved by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe on 9 July 2014 under the auspices of the European Committee on Criminal Affairs, and the entire Convention was submitted quite recently for signature by the Member States of the Council of Europe on 25 March 2015 in the Spanish Santiago de Compostela. To date, 17 countries, including the Czech Republic, have signed this Convention, which was signed on the day it was opened for signature. What is this convention about? This Convention focuses primarily on criminal matters related to trafficking in human organs, is intended to protect victims and requires criminal penalties for the entire range of negotiations on individual states of the Council of Europe. It therefore lays down the obligation for Member States to ensure the criminality of deliberate collection of human bodies, etc. and proposes appropriate sanctions, appropriate precautionary measures and other things to protect and support people who move or become victims of this issue. Here I would like to say, as the Minister said, that a number of states already have this issue quite well handled in their legislation, including the Czech Republic, and if there was any discrepancy that was acceptable, it was allowed in certain articles of this Convention to apply a reservation to this Convention, which it did, as the Minister said, and the Czech Republic. I would like to say that we will be dealing with this on the foreign committee, but I think that the issue of compliance with our legislation would also deserve to be discussed on the constitutional law committee, because, just for your information, which laws are covered by our legislation, so I would like to list them here. This concerns Act No. 285/2002 Coll., so-called transplant law. This concerns Act No. 45/2013 Sb., so called. Anti-discrimination law. This concerns Act No. 40/2009 Coll., Criminal Code. This concerns Act No. 70/2002 Coll., Criminal Convention on Corruption. This concerns Act No. 418/2011 Coll., Act on Criminal Liability of Legal Persons and its Amendment as amended by Act No. 183/2016 Coll. This concerns Act No. 296/2008 Coll., on Human Tissues and Cells. This concerns Act No. 104/2013 Coll., on International Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters, and this applies at last also to Act No. 141/1961 Coll., Criminal Code. For your information, I'd sort of recap the contract. The contract has one preamble that says what it means. It's an attempt to eradicate organ trafficking. And it has several articles. Article 1 sets out the main objective of the Convention. The second article specifies the scope and use of terms. It sets out concepts such as what we call trafficking in human organs, what is meant by the human organ. And I would always like to say in this article exactly which law it concerns in our legislation. In this case, we must say that our transplant law is handling this issue well, quite without any problems. Article number three provides for an obligation to apply the principles of non-discrimination, which is addressed by our anti-discrimination law. Article number four states what is illegal procurement of the human body and which matters concern it. It also says, and here is, for example, a demonstration of a minor discrepancy with our transplant law that the withdrawal cannot be done without the free, informed and specific consent of a living or deceased donor. Here it allows us to treat it with our own legislation, because our transplant law in Section 10 says that there may be no informed consent for life. Any person who dies and has not expressed direct opposition in his lifetime is considered to agree to a transplant or to the use of his organs after his death. Furthermore, I would like to say that she has reserved here, as the Minister said, our Republic is the first reservation which concerns precisely the collection of donors who are not entirely legal. This applies mainly to children and also to persons who are deprived of legal capacity in full, respectively. for donors who are persons who have not acquired full jurisdiction or persons with limited right or persons who have consented to the withdrawal, but who, in view of their current state of health, may be presumed not to have considered all that they should have considered. Article 5 concerns the use of illegally collected organs for transplant purposes or for other purposes. This is where the deliberate use of illegal organs is criminalized, and it's being dealt with by the criminal code. Here we have applied another reservation because there is a difference between the Czech Criminal Code and the Convention. This is a bit wider in this regard, and either we would have to amend the amendment to the Criminal Code or we allowed ourselves to apply another reservation. Article six criminalizes a deliberate transplant outside the internal transplant system. It is dealt with both by the criminal code and by the transplant law. Article seven defines and affects illegal guidance, negotiation, offer or claim for an unjustified advantage. Basically, he says that no one can sell their organs or gain any advantage for it. This means that you can't even trade with your own organ, which means you want an advantage for, for example, when you die, that your organ will be used for transplant purposes. Article 8 concerns storage, storage, transport, import, etc. illegally collected authorities. Criminalizes, deals with criminal code. Article number nine, and I am coming to an end, criminalizes aiding and participating in an attempt. He's handling the criminal code. Article number ten is the last article in which we have applied a reservation concerning when individual states exercise their jurisdiction over people who commit a criminal offence in connection with this Convention. The liability of legal persons is addressed in Article 11. We have a law on criminal liability of legal persons. And that's the end of it. Article 12 defines sanctions, measures, etc. The following is article 13 defining aggravating circumstances. Article 14, previous conviction. I will no longer delay, I just wanted to say that I have pointed out to the Minister that a motion for a resolution is prepared for discussion and for the House, in which, however, only two reservations are raised concerning article number four and article number ten, so we should probably amend this resolution in agreement with the Minister. Finally, I would like to propose, as another committee after the foreign guarantee committee, that this Convention be dealt with by the Constitutional Committee. It is already in order to assess compliance with our legislation, and I think that, given the issue, it would be appropriate for the Committee on Health to deal with this as well. Finally, I would like to propose a reduction of the time limits for committee discussions by 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-005-222.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his intelligence report. I am opening a general debate which I do not have an application for. So I'm asking who's applying from the scene. I don't see anyone. I will therefore ask the rapporteur to repeat the proposal in the debate to shorten the deadline so that we do not forget this. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-005-222.u6	So I would like to propose a reduction in the time limits for committee discussions by 30 days to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-005-222.u7	Thank you. Who's next in the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. And the rapporteur proposed the Committee on Constitutional Law and the Committee on Health. Does anyone else have any other proposals for other committees? It's not like that. So we will vote individually on the proposals that have been tabled here. First, a proposal from the Organising Committee to discuss the proposal submitted by the Foreign Committee. I'll check you out and ask you for a new registration because the number of people in the House has changed. And once the numbers are settled, we will vote on individual proposals. I think it's okay. Let's get started. Voting number 169, which I have begun. I ask who is for the commandment to the Foreign Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 169 of the 95 present for 94, against 1. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the motion on the commandment of the Committee to constitutional law. I've started voting number 170, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 170 of 98 Members present for 76, against 12. This proposal has also been adopted. Now, a proposal for consultation in the Health Committee. I've started voting number 171 and I'm asking who's on the Health Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 171 of the 99 Members present for 72, against 9. This proposal has also been adopted. We will now vote on a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days. We will decide in the vote order number 172, which I have begun and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 172 of the 102 Members present for 55, against 16. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Constitutional Law and the Committee on Health. The time limit for the hearing shall be 30 days. Thank you to the Minister of Justice, thank you to the rapporteur and end with point No. 222. According to the approved agenda, we will now proceed with paragraph 215. Here I will ask for participation at the table of the rapporteurs of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and the rapporteur for the first reading of Matěj Fichtner. Because it's about
