ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u1	1. Law amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended /German press 501/8/ - returned by the President of the Republic The President of the Republic's position, stating his opposition to this law, has been delivered to you as House Press 501/9. First of all, I ask Mr. Richard Brabec, Mr. Environment Minister, if he wants to comment on the President's position. The Minister is interested. Before going to the rapporteur's desk and performing, I will ask that the rapporteurs Robin Böhnisch and Jan Klán be prepared. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this will be very brief. You've all got the President's position, and I have to say, I haven't found anything in there that we haven't discussed in that year and a half or almost two years here. So I must say that I remain entirely on my own, that I think that the parliamentary version of the amendment to the Nature and Landscape Act is good and balanced. I'm gonna ask you for the third time, and I promise you for the last time, for her support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. Opinions on the President of the Republic - Mr Robin Böhnisch. He's not interested. My colleague, Klán. He's not interested. I open the debate and there I have the priority right of Mr Miroslav Kalousek, then of the rapporteur and then of the duly registered colleagues Jan zahradník and Mr Vilímec. A colleague of Kalousek, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to ask the government a rhetorical question: Does the government care about enforcing this bill? Well, it should, it's a government proposal. And if it matters to the government, does the government, which otherwise has a comfortable majority to enforce such an important bill, have at least the minimum majority of 101 in the Chamber of Deputies? I'm not asking by accident, because the last time we voted on a proposal that came from the Senate, the government didn't have a government majority. And without the support of the TOP 09 MEP, this bill would not have been approved. I am afraid, or hopefully, that together we will be at least 101, that it will be this time too, that even this time the government, which declares it its priority, cannot do without the support of the opposition, without the support of the TOP 09, so that this proposal is approved. [[17.40 hours]] I'm not saying this to laugh. I say this so that, on a particular example, I turn against the often pronounced accusations that we are opposition at all costs, which in the Chamber of Deputies does nothing but negate and smash reasonable government proposals. Yes, we are opposition and we will be a consistent opposition to all the proposals that bring hazing, bullying, stalking, swelling the state, budgetary irresponsibleness, overregulation, administrative demands and many other and other gifts of a similar nature by which the current government of the Czech Republic grants citizens of this country. If, however, by some divine procedure, the government presents a proposal with which we agree, which we consider important, because it reflects the values for which we have been elected and for which we are fighting, no matter what kind of minister puts it forward, regardless of our opposition to the government, we are prepared to support it and we are prepared even to defend this law in a public debate that is very lively and very emotional. This is also the case with the Government's draft law on conservation of nature and landscape, which preserves a certain part of the wild nature for future generations. And preserving part of the landscape and nature to future generations is, ladies and gentlemen, a truly conservative theme, and we are a conservative party. Therefore, we have absolutely no reason not to support this proposal. We will support it for the third time, we will do so unanimously. I hope that discussions are concluded about the fact that we are the opposition at all costs, regardless of the subject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u5	Thank you to President Kalousek for the performance. Now, the rapporteur, Jan Klán, but in the debate. A colleague of the Zahradník will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. As the Minister has already said, I hope that during this parliamentary term we last address Law 114, respectively. that, therefore, we will last address the problem of Šumava during this parliamentary term. I, when I think of it, because I also discussed the Martyria for the two years as rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, when the apple of contention was Šumava. And I'm going to remind you that the disadvantage of this law is that all national parks are included in it, so whenever there's a problem in Sumava, in some other national park, we're going to have to open Act No. 114. And now I'm going to play a little futurologist, what happens when the law, perhaps, opens the future House again. It will happen that some lobbyists will come from a number of green or other environmental activists to expand, say, some free zone in Sumava, or maybe lobbyists will come, let's just say, from among the communities that are in Sumava, and we'll get swamped again, not us, but the future House will go back into Law 114 for a few months and we'll argue if Sumava does, not Sumava, and somehow it'll just narrow back to that Sumava. That is why, from the beginning, we have been telling KSČM as an MP to remove individual parks from this law so that Sumava had its own law. We also submitted the bill, even the Plzeň Region presented it, and the efforts were already here in the last parliamentary term, unfortunately it did not happen and the individual national parks remained in the law 114 and will always be an apple of contention. I'm warning you, we're always gonna be in the water. The cleanest solution would really be to remove individual national parks from this draft law 114 on conservation of nature and landscape and declare them a separate law, because if you change the territory of those national parks, you will only open the relevant law and you will not have to completely open the law no. 114. I know someone here said it wasn't entirely true, but we can have a discussion about that some other time, because now we're at the end of that phase of approval when the President returned this law to us. I may have welcomed some things from the Senate when the Senate returned it to us with amendments, but there it completely redesigned the purpose of national parks, so I could not support the resolution of the Senate because there could not be a vote after individual paragraphs, as possible on the amendments here in the Chamber of Deputies. That was a major mistake. Otherwise, a lot of things would have been passed into the law and we would have been somewhere else, and I could have supported the law, but since it didn't happen, I wouldn't have supported the law. I did not support him, I abstained from voting precisely because the individual national parks were not excluded from this bill. We haven't moved anywhere. I'm telling you frankly, if this conflict is not resolved, the national parks versus bill 114, we will always spin in circles and the apple of contention will remain Šumava forever. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u7	I thank Mr Jan Klán. Now, before my colleague Zahradník - I apologize - there are two factual points, namely Mr Votava and Mr Böhnisch. First, Mr Václav Votava. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have no choice but to agree with my previous speaker. Yes, the issue is the Šumava National Park, the Šumava National Park. The Šumava National Park is completely different from the other national parks, different mainly in this - this has already been tilted x-fold - that there are municipalities in its territory and there are people living in those municipalities. These people want to live there, so people should also be taken into account. I received a number of e-mails, letters from both the supporters of the bill and, of course, from the municipalities, from the citizens. You know well that both the Plzeň Region and the South Bohemia Region have adopted a resolution that rejected the government bill. They even presented their time with a special law for Sumava. I think he'd be in position. Yes, the Šumava National Park deserves its own law. Unfortunately, it always fell under the table, it was not the will of the Chamber of Deputies to approve such a bill. Although I don't always agree with Mr. President, I'm totally right about this. I will, of course, behave as I have always acted, and I will not vote in favour of this bill, which means that I will not vote against the President's veto.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u9	I thank Mr Votav for his time on the point of fact. I would like to point out not only to his colleagues that the individual Members who are given the floor have the right to speak calmly and in a sufficiently dignified environment, so please, those groups and colleagues who speak too loudly to keep their voice down so that Mr Böhnisch can have his factual point. [[Loud calls in the room don't stop.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I volunteered only for a small matter to oppose the inappropriate example set by my previous speaker, Mr Klán, for example, that the law would be opened for the sake of zoning. There's no way the law's gonna open because of the phoning. The phoning is gonna be dealt with in a decree. It was intended to address measures of a general nature where municipalities would have much more power, but the municipalities in Sumava themselves wanted to get rid of this burden and demanded a decree, and so there is now a decree in that law. [[17.50 hours]] But one more comment about both the rapporteur Klán and the rest of us. Well, opening Law 114 is as easy as opening any other law, even if national parks are declared each by their own law. Yes, a hundred and fourteen opens more often, but technically it's the exact same process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u11	I thank Mr Böhnisch for his time on the point of fact and we continue with Mr Jan Zahradník's speech, Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Before my colleague Zahradník arrives, I will make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Helena Langšádlová and Vojtěch Adam, until the end of today's meeting time. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now dealing with a law that is out of line with a number of ordinary laws that we are getting to know here and which we are discussing and which we are finally voting on, which we are putting amendments to and which we are dealing with here in the ordinary agenda of our negotiations. There aren't many such laws. I think there has been only one that has been returned to discuss both the Senate and the President of the Republic. I think such a law was the Civil Service Act, which was thus returned. This law was extremely political, and its discussion was also very intense, emotional, and I must say that from all the actors perceived so that we will probably never forget it. This law, too, is returned in two ways. It was returned by the Senate even with a comprehensive amendment, which was an attempt to compromise. I am not hiding that this comprehensive amendment of the Senate came from the discussion of its creators, senators and mayors, with scientists who are at heart the fate of Sumava and with tourists and other people who care about Sumava. Unfortunately, we didn't approve the law, and the Senate veto was outvoted. So now this law is actually coming back for the third time with the veto, with the opposition of the President of the Republic. What is the reason that this law, its negotiation, has such a course. It's probably because it's controversial, it's questionable. It is questionable from a professional, civil and political point of view. From a professional point of view, we have different views on how to manage such a territory, a territory that was not the wilderness we know from national parks on large continents in America, Asia. Yellowstone National Park, Yosemite and others, where people never lived permanently, which are huge complexes of nature. And with territories like our Sumava, such as the Giant Mountains and our other two national parks, where people, of course, throughout the history of our country, say for thousands of years, have lived for many centuries and marked the territory in their work, but also in a spiritual way. And now we have to deal with this problem. Of course, there is quite a twofold view of this. Representatives of the advocates of this law who would like to promote the existence of wilderness in the superior territory of national parks have the opinion that nature will manage itself. It's an experiment. Even they don't know how the experiment will turn out, when we'll be able to evaluate it. Will it be in 20 years? Fifty or a hundred? It will be our descendants who will be amazed to see what eventually became of Sumava, or perhaps with pleasure, what Šumava looks like. We cannot say that today, and the advocates of this law must admit that such forecasts are not capable of such predictions for the future. There are supporters of the moderate approach. Defendants that, of course, we must protect nature. We even have to try to restore the wildlife that may have been here in Sumava, but we have to try to help that nature. That we will be planted, if necessary, to protect the forests from the calamity, from the barking calamity. We will allow people to live there, to make a living, and also to visit Sumava. Yes, one of the previous speakers mentioned it. We're talking about Sumava. It's Lex Šumava. It's the Law of Sumava. That's not valid. It's also a civil issue. It's controversial from a civil point of view. People have lived in Sumava for many years. Some of them have long-term roots there. They find their ancestors in the original German inhabitants of Šumava. Some came there only after moving the German population, but again, they feel like they're part of that territory. They already have the graves of their ancestors, they have their villages there, which they manage autonomously according to our laws, and they elect their representatives, they elect their mayors, and they then uphold their interests. There is a much larger group in the number of speeches, unfortunately, those people who do not live there, who see it from afar. From Prague, from northern Bohemia, from northern Moravia, from Brno. It seems incomprehensible to them why we're so attached to keeping the human green Sumava alive. Why not leave it to her fate? Why don't we let nature do it? Why don't we try the experiment? As it turns out, no one knows. The others manifest themselves far more. They are more active in the media, the Internet and their speeches, the ability to organise themselves, to meet in several-headed groups here in Malostranské náměstí and to express their position quite clearly. It's those people who live in Sumava, and those who are connected with them aren't that capable. As I said before the program, these people are starting to engage, activate. He writes his letters, writes his opinions. Many even write with their hands. They don't have a computer, and then somebody has to rewrite it into the e-mail. So the civil conflict is clear here. Finally, it is controversial from a political point of view. It's controversial from a political point of view, that's obvious. Whatever the outcome, the conflicting position of the two parliamentary chambers. Opinion of the House, Opinion of the Senate. Whether the veto of the President of the Republic, which, of course, is a great encouragement to us. For us who want Šumava green, Šumava human. And then, of course, there is the political problem of supporting the law. President Kalousek here mentioned the fact that we have all noticed and which can be viewed from another point of view. Of course, there were 117 votes for the Senate Vote. The key votes were from TOP 09, otherwise the opposition parties, and that, of course, was decided. I do not question this in any way; it is the right of every Member to vote according to their conscience. And I've come to terms with how it turned out. [[18.00 hours]] Now there's a new chance. There's a chance to hold this law. Give Šumava another chance. And I agree with what my colleague Klán said, that Sumava is such a specific national park, such a specific territory, other than the other parks, the size, the settlement, the character, the history that she deserves her own law. I've been trying to give my colleagues a chance to get to know those opinions. Last time you received a brochure prepared by the Union of Šumava Communities, prepared by Šumava communities and their representatives. Today we have another brochure, unfortunately the time to study it was rejected in the vote. At least I'd like to introduce you to some of the important articles in the brochure. Here I have two such articles that I would like to read here with some commentary and introduce you to them. Everyone has a different attitude about the problem. The first article is an article by Professor Čermák from the Institute of Forestry Botany, Dendrology and Geobiocenology from Mendel University in Brno. The second article is then an article by Professor Kalina. In turn, it concerns, as Professor Kalina's scientific focus suggests, as an art and architecture historian, this attitude, let's say, of a humanitarian scientist. Professor Čermák, at the outset of his article, mentions the joy that several weeks ago in Paris, representatives of different states gathered together and agreed on a procedure to minimise global warming problems. Here I note that the professor probably wrote his article at the beginning of 2016, i.e. shortly after that gigantic ten thousand-dollar meeting in Paris at which the Paris Agreement was adopted. The professor has not read it yet, but according to the communication on radio and television, he says that the resulting report did not bring too new and generally that these important issues were evaluated by the participants very unilaterally, only in terms of global CO2 control. For example, he has heard no mention of the potential influence of releasing a huge amount of methane - a gas more effective in creating a greenhouse effect than carbon dioxide - from the sea of flooded, unseen swamps on the north coast of Asia or Russia and Canada. He also did not hear anyone mention the role of water and the extraordinary importance of its skupin changes and the function of the forest on a continental scale. In 1492, the sailor Kryštof Kolumbus, says the professor, pointed out the connection between the forest and the rainfall. In the diary, this sailor noted that when they arrived at a few populated but forested coasts or islands, it rained almost every hour. When civilization developed there and the forests were cut down, almost nothing happened. It just stopped raining or the amount of rainfall and mist significantly decreased. History teaches us that all the great ancient civilizations, whether in Africa, Asia, or America, that have destroyed their forests to the surface of the desert and dried up their landscape, have vanished. A group of scientists from the Institute of Nuclear Physics from his climatic department in St Petersburg, joined by physicists from America, Spain, Germany and other countries, focused on these facts. They studied the global model of rain rainfall distribution and found that over continents covered by deserts, fields, or low vegetation collisions have fallen exponentially from the coast at a distance of several hundred kilometers. However, if the continent is covered by an increased forest, the rainfall does not fall, on the other hand, slightly rising at a distance of over 3,000 km. Thus, the professor here and the graphs demonstrate the importance of the wooded surface of the territory due to the intensity and quality of the precipitation. The professor further mentions that both ocean water and vegetation on continents are heated with solar radiation, and if it is not covered by snow or ice, a large amount of water is evaporated. Likewise, water is evaporated from the surface of the leaves - now there is a quantitative description of foliage as well as deciduous and coniferous trees, and it links them to the detachable surface of leaves in the conifers of deciduous leaves. And notes at the end of his reasoning, which I will not specifically read here, that mainly the forest as a plant community with a large and height-diversified leaf surface makes the formation of temperature gradients conditional. And this is in this situation, this is the situation of moisture, moisture, water in the atmosphere, i.e. biosphere, the most important thing. In order for the forest to exist without targeted external interventions in all directions, it must be large enough. This is interesting information, and Professor Čermák illustrates it with the findings of physicists, which produced the minimum value of forest area for boreal areas in the order of 1,000 times 1,000 kilometers, which, as I have already said, is possible in those great territories of Asia or North America, where, of course, such forests can live their own lives, can survive various catastrophic, climatic, I don't know, fires etc. and evolve still as a forest unit. It is more complex for smaller forest units, yet it can be said that smaller forest units are quite sticking to something, but unfortunately, without contact, they cannot exist permanently on their own. The important thing is that there are extremely large changes in the volume of water during the group change. So when the liter of liquid water evaporates, the volume is almost thousand times that, it's going to be 1,250 liters. This volume is increasing, it is warmer than the surrounding atmosphere, which is a known phenomenon, and it is colliding again in the form of a liquid, so that its volume is changing again, there are pressure changes. So this biopump actually acts as a source of kinetic energy for moving rain soaked clouds, transferring them from one part of the continent to another, and of course they play an irreplaceable role in that forest. If the biopump mechanism is disrupted, says Professor Čermák, e.g. as a result of the mass extermination or death of the forest, the current of wet air from the ocean ceases to function and the continent begins to dry. If we want to get away from the level of continents, from those large areas to the level of dimensions of our landscape and our forest units, and could similarly evaluate them quantitatively, we need to quantify the field and physical parameters and model them subsequently with the appropriate mathematical apparatus. We already have these tools at our disposal. A number of parameters are also available to examine and predict the consequences of such fatal interventions in forest structures for water management in forests. [[18.10 hours]] Professor Čermák concludes his article, which is mentioned in the Sumava echoes proceedings against the background of the amendment of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act issued by the Life Movement, notes that they checked at the Institute of Forest Botany of Mendel University, which I have already quoted here, more than 15 species of trees, including, of course, their crowns and parameters of roots. They have come to sum up the results of 60 experimental sites in Europe and the US in more than 300 publications. So they have a huge amount of data that shows how important it is to preserve the living forest. A forest that is not cut down, a forest that is not dried up by some catastrophic phenomena, but which lives, which is green. Unfortunately, we in Sumava note that the principle of non-impositionality leads to the forest drying up, that its ability to be such a water supply station or water pump is declining, so the system of water relations in our territory is greatly disrupted. Sumava is a large area, the national park has an area of 70 thousand. hectares, together with the protected landscape area it is 100 thousand. hectares. But this is not enough compared to the huge, self-functioning forest systems, and we should therefore be very, very careful in accessing this territory. The second article, which I want to quote to you here with some commentary, is an article by Mr.Pavel Kalina called Krůrovec as a symbol or Bear Bear returns. This is a name that could raise doubts about who the author is, what his goals are, what his professional focus is. I can read here, or listener today, at this point, we refused to read it, we didn't want it, so listener. [[inform]] profesor doktor Pavel Kalina, CSc, is an art and architecture historian who teaches at the Faculty of Architecture of the Czech Technical University in Prague, a highly serious scientist who has the right and I think is also able to express himself on this matter. Professor Kalina's contribution is from 2012, he is given here with his kind permission and I think he has a lot to tell us even today, in today's discussion, a discussion of the Šumava National Park Act, a discussion of the Šumava Act, which will decide on her future, her life or death. Professor Kalina writes in his article: In recent years, much has been written about Sumava. In my contribution, I'd like to return to my roots. Let us ask ourselves what is actually a national park, when this idea was created within the framework of the Euro-American civilization and what its content was. Only after answering these fundamental questions will we be able to look at the current problems of Sumava from a certain distance. So how is "national" a national park? And even - what does this term mean? The oldest "national park" in the world is the Yellowstone National Park established on March 1, 1872 in Montana. Not on the territory of old Europe, which at first glance seems paradoxical. Here I remind you that in discussing the Senate vomit of this law on this day, on March 1st, I reminded you of this fact. The fact that we're here on the same day that Yellowstone National Park was founded. The national parks of the United States were logically intended to serve primarily the self - understanding of a young nation. Such a statement logically implies the meaningfulness of the concept of nation. Of course, it can be defined differently. I come from the fact that the nation is above all a horizon for dialogue. The nation is organic in total. The current fragmentation of society leads to no one discussing any more. It is no coincidence that words like national are excluded from "politically correct" discourse in this country. The link to the nation involves not only rational but also emotional and intuitive connections with a total that transcends the individual's ego. Nothing is more distant from contemporary narcissism, which manifests itself as a clear priority for individual interests. So we took the first step - we looked at the national park as something inherently connected with the historically graspable concept of the nation. Now let's take the second step - let's ask whether the concept of a national park is linked to Czech analytical "scientific" thinking about the world, or whether it is related in some way to our aesthetic or visual perception. At first glance, the idea of the national park was linked from the beginning to visual perception. Not purely objective research. This idea first appears, by the way, not with naturalists who will soon take over and develop it, but with poets like William Wordsworth, and painters like George Catlin. The creation of the Yellowstone National Park itself influenced the visualization possibilities of the period, especially the images of Thomas Moran, sometimes called "the father of the national park system." In one of his key paintings Moran captured the Yellowstone Great Canyon - which is shown here in Figure 1, you can find it then on page 18 - as the untouched work of boží. The painting was created during Haydenův's expedition in 1871, to which Moran, as illustrator of the monthly Scribner ©s Monthly, joined. The display of a monumental canvas at Clinton Hall in New York a year later contributed to the declaration of the entire area for the national park. Moran thus acted as a proxy for the application of various social interests that did not have to overlap, but could come to a consensual solution, which in general corresponds to the role of an artist in a pre-modern society. In addition to Moranův's paintings, however, there may be a completely contradictory vision of nature based on a distinctly individualist and individualist approach, which is characteristic of modern art. A fine example is the Dying Forest of Josef Váchal on the page. 18 in Figure No 2, which undoubtedly captures part of the forest affected by the crust. His author dealt with Šumava in the long term and devoted it not only to a number of paintings, but also to a few texts that are characterized by strong love for nature and places of no less strong aversion to its inhabitants and visitors. The destruction of the forest is like the visual parallel of Váchalův's misanthropic comments on the former form of Šumava and the world. Admitted or unconceived joy in the destruction of the forest is based on the idea that I, as a record subject, am a true man. I'm not just here as a tourist. "Tourists" are the others. - Kalina here is retelling Váchalův's thoughts. And I continue reading directly from Kalina: If Váchal derived his difference from defining himself as an artist, contemporary destructors define themselves as scientists. Of course, the concept of a "national" park in such thinking loses meaning, because no nation exists as a reference framework anymore. In the period between world wars, it would still sound like an impossible utopia. But, as Nikolaj Berďajev wrote at this time, the utopias are feasible, they are more feasible than the seemingly substantive objectives of "real politics." [[18.20 hours]] So our third step will be to claim that the crust is a symbol of a frontal attack on the elementary values of our civilization. This attack is carried out at a subliminal unconfessed level of consciousness. The bark is only its external and representative manifestation. The kůrovcový crisis, which has been manifesting itself for several years, represents another version of the crisis of legitimacy in the power of modern democracies, which begins with the French Revolution. How can the will of the people be realized in democracy if others constantly make decisions for it? As is e.g. Is it possible that the Minister for the Acting Party, for whom literally a handful of citizens have spoken, will decide not to deal with the cruststorm? The events of last year - Kalina means 2011 - and their media image has shown that effective public exclusion is not random. One of the articles on this topic in Salon Laws without scruples attracted what could be felt for years. The left doesn't really want the people. The Left is afraid of the people. It is a pitfall that Carl Schmitt, a famous lawyer and one of the most influential political theorists of the 20th century, has already described: Every democracy encounters an identity problem that is never set forward. The people can never assert their interest directly. Its role is usurped by subjects promoting minority interests. But popularity in the barking forest symbolizes more than animosity to contemporary civilization, whether it is enmity real or played. Contemporary political scientist Giorgio Agamben points out the difference between the holistic expression for life as a zoé and the term bios, which refers to human life reduced to biological survival, whose final station is a concentration camp, where it is really a "shaven life." Michel Foucault has already stressed that life is at stake nowadays, and this implies the decisive role of medical science ideology in the modern power system. In biology it is not possible to define what life is, the extinction of one of its forms only gives rise to another. Biological life is actually a consecrated form of bare life. According to Marsilius z Padova, approximately 1275-1342, one of the founders of the modern tradition of European political thinking, however, the community or human society is set up to ensure more than mere survival for its citizens - see his Defensor pacis file, where he says "civ... communitatem esse institutam propter vivere et bene vivere hominum in ea'. According to philosophy proclaimed by those who demand the restoration of the wilderness in Sumava, chaotic life in itself is placed in a place of human life. Man and his value system are down. Not only one value system is denied, but the possibility of creating a value model itself. Unnoticed, either there is an erosion of elementary values, without which it is no longer possible to talk about civilization, or - which is more likely - it is all just a rhetorical game. But then we want to know whose game it is - whose game it is - and who it benefits. And who he's good for. - I said that twice on purpose. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] The fourth step is to state that the attack on the fundamental values of European civilization is taking place in an illegitimate way, particularly with the help of the media, which replaces the people's will with their own opinion. It is in Šumava that the need for holistic holistic holistic access to the national park is clearly shown. During the last year's debate, I was repeatedly surprised by nihilism, with which some advocates of non-inhibiting could express themselves about the completely real cultural legacy found in Sumava. However, abandoned glass settlements should never grow in a newly created forest, certainly not only because it would be contrary to the international conventions which the Czech Republic has committed itself to complying with. Archaeologists, anthropologists, historians of architecture and urbanism are to speak on the topic of the national park. Media simplification and overall flattening of the debate have obviously caused and purposefully worked on it themselves by "scientists" who completely ignore any other than their own, narrowly specialized view. [[nature-]] The Šumava National Park, of course, is an idea in itself, which is created and developed in a certain cultural context. Sumava as such represents a huge uneven system. We can think anything about planting spruce on wood, but we cannot simply cross out this chapter from the history of Sumava or pretend that "natural will take care" of it. It is clear to the unprofessional, too, that the idea of the wilderness in Sumava is nothing more than a sense of reason to wait for the bear to reappear in its own development. Or is it gonna be, like, Yellowstone Park, a really autochthonous Méďa Béďa? So here's the point of the title. In this regard, one might ask: why did no activists protest when Marina Lipno was built near the border of the Šumava National Park? Does this mean that from Marina Lipno, or other resorts with zero relation to the landscape, it will go to an artificial forest? Again, it turns out that the barking calamity is actually a symbol of the destruction of the old world. Čech are to be reprogrammed. Developers, tourists and scientists will rule the new world. Part of Šumava will turn into a tourist ghetto and the rest will be transformed into a forest for decades. Ecology is clearly proving to be the reverse of consumerism here. Let us therefore approach the fifth step and this calls for a possible solution. The Czech Republic should maintain its own Nature Conservation Act on its territory, which, as I understand it, does not count on creating artificial wilderness. However, it is certainly not just about upholding the law. Behind the whole problem are the outlines of a much more serious dispute, and that is the question of further direction of our political system. We must not allow tourists from the windows of the mass resorts to look at the site of pseudoscience experimentation, protected by illegally organized pressure groups claiming superiority over the clearly expressed opinion of the population. Rather, it would be possible to begin to wonder if it was not time to really hand over power to the people. This handover may not take the form of referendums. Perhaps it would be enough to ensure the genuine impartiality of the public media and to reach an intergroup dialogue that would help rebuild the Czech political nation as a mental horizon in which important decisions take place. The future of Sumava lies not in the dominance of one opinion, but in the alignment of various interests. If this should not happen, then it will have to be considered to what extent the people themselves can assume the responsibility that is still being denied them under questionable circumstances. Ladies and gentlemen, here are a number of things that, however Professor Kalina wrote it sometime in 2012, very clearly describe our situation. They're talking about whose game it is and who the game is good for. That's from some paragraph here on the previous page. I repeated it. Law enforcement claims that this is a game of Šumava developers, landowners, Šumava residents, people who live in Sumava, even those who came after the war, generations who in no way want to concrete Šumava, turn it into carnivals, as you claimed, or as you were told by the people who wrote the e-mails. The fact that you are voting so explicitly politically about their fates is a great disdain for the position of people. It's actually a contempt for the citizens of Sumava. [[18.30 hours]] The Chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek here spoke of unattractiveness as a conservative topic. I would understand that, and I would support it if it were an unattractiveness at Yellowstone National Park or Yosemite National Park in the United States. Please, where is the wild nature where it has its history in Sumava, where people have lived for centuries? The former Minister and Honorary President Schwarzenberg expressed himself in the House, but also in an interview that was available on a server. He said a virgin can't be pregnant at the same time. If Šumava nature was virgin nature, of course, its virginity was lost in the time of the massive mining in the early 19th century, when its owners, the Schwarzenberg family, built Rosenauerův's navigation channel. By doing so, they reached with their timber for the flow of rivers, which flooded the wood to the place where the rafts were tied, and from there to Prague, where the wood was obviously sold. This is where Šumava lost her virginity, Mr. Honorary Chairman Schwarzenberg speaking. He then expressed another aspect when the editor asked him what he would recommend to do with Šumava. He said it was something similar as if your car was stolen and then asked the thief how to drive the car. I'm just giving this quote because it's available on servers. I think that here is conservative nature in Sumava to protect it so that its protection is consistent with tradition, history, living there, living there, and I firmly believe that people will live. It is not conservative to turn Šumava's overhalf into a wilderness and risk turning the whole of Šumava into a wilderness by doing so. This experiment was clearly demonstrated here by former Minister Martin Bursík in 2007, when the meeting took place, it was actually in 2006, about the change of the zoning. About what will be the first zones, what will be the non-impact zones in Sumava. And the negotiations were in accordance with the legislation in force at the time. Very lazy negotiations with the municipalities, everything had to be negotiated, agreed, discussed with the municipalities. And of course, they wanted to know what their options would be, how nature would be protected, where tourists could go, where the first inaccessible zone would be. And suddenly the providence of boží, unfortunately sometimes acting against the human race, was sent down by Orkán Kyrill, who at that time caused a large number of fallen wood, and Šumava had a chance, at that time it was possible to clear this wood, thereby preventing the crusty calamity sensitively, gradually in accord with the municipalities - and this is another place of Mr Kalina's article, a social consensus - to prepare a non-impressive regime that would sensitively support the emergence of wild nature. That didn't happen. Minister Bursík then ordered the wood to remain in the Šumava National Park in the first and second zones, which caused the barking calamity and his problem of transformation into the wilderness has been resolved. kůrovec did the job for him. All of this can be found here in Pavel Kalina's article. It is possible to think very deeply and intensively about its content. I would recommend that you read the article and think about some things before voting on the law. But as you can see, you want to vote today at all costs, Minister. [[To Minister Brabco sitting at the newsstand.]] Mr Vice-President, tell the Minister he wants to vote today. I'm sorry. At this point I will end my speech and give room for the speech to my colleague Vilímc, a colleague from the Pilsen Region, also a citizen of the region on whose territory the Šumava National Park is located. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. In addition to the debate, I have Mr Vilímec, who I am giving the floor to. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u14	Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, much has been said about this bill and, above all, its implications for the future fate and protection of the Šumava National Park. Maybe one of you is of the opinion that every sentence here is useless now, that it's just beating up empty straw. In the opening exhibition, the Minister limited himself only to the fact that he had found nothing new in the President's arguments and, in his view, this law is balanced and good. That's all he said. Too škoda he didn't convince all the actors. Because when I listen to the performances, they are mostly, and it was also in the third reading, the deputies elected either in the Pilsen Region or in the South Bohemia Region. Do you think it is normal if, as it is evident, this bill does not support not only the majority of the municipalities in Sumava, which are part of the Šumava National Park, does not, in my opinion, support the majority of the citizens living there, have the support of neither the Representation of the Pilsen Region nor the Representation of the South Bohemia Region that we want to introduce something against the will of these authorities? Are we serious about this going to be okay? I'm not convinced. I regard the fact that the petitioner, and I will personally do so here on behalf of the Minister of the Environment, has clearly failed to reach a compromise. They are talking about some compromise, but no compromise has been negotiated between supporters of the expansion of non-stress zones, i.e., in simple terms, supporters of the expansion of another wilderness, and the other party, most of the people living in Sumava, working in Sumava, and, of course, with those who are politically responsible for the sustainable development of local communities. You can say that nothing has changed since the third reading, except the President's veto. But yet something has changed, and I don't think the President's veto, I don't want to talk about the President's arguments, is an opportunity to think again about whether it's all worth it. If the battle won, which is clearly partial to one opinion, doesn't eventually turn into a hidden permanent war. And that is what I am very worried about in a situation where this bill simply does not have general support. [[18.40 hours]] It happened that until recently we were all bombarded by similar and apparently purposefully distributed emails from the pen of various representatives of environmental organizations and especially the Rainbow Movement, which is famous for its activities in Šumava. But now, from that third reading and, above all, from the rejection of the Senate proposal, more people from the other side have finally started to respond. Those who actually live in Sumava who work there and also have political responsibility in mayors for the sustainable development of their communities. It is understandable that many of these writers are concerned about what awaits them in the event of the adoption of the Government's draft law on national parks. Maybe they got in late, I'm sure they got in late. But these people aren't activists, they don't have the options, they don't have the background, they don't have the money that NGOs have. They do not draw subsidies from which they would pay for media training, learn how to write press releases and work with social media. They cannot and are not used to writing letters to Members and Senators, thus creating pressure on the legislator. They don't need it, or at least they haven't had it yet. Yet, and therefore, we should perceive them equally, and more strongly than the pressure groups of which we are interested. also further draw money on all kinds of projects and research, as if Sumava were their private laboratory. I will not quote so many authorities here, but I would also quote the expression of Professor Mendel University in Brno, Professor Radomír Mrkva, to supplement the picture. He draws attention to the fact that while the law sets itself an ambitious objective of creating a wilderness with original species of trees, it does not sort of solve the path that will be achieved. And it's gonna be a very thorny journey. I quote from his words. The return of key species of trees is simply achieved in the high mountain environment, but there is no natural force in the forested areas of lower positions that would return here beech and eat. Absent trees with heavy non-flying seeds simply don't walk on their own, so there is no way to do without human intervention. It does not change the objection that such a procedure is not ideologically clean from the point of view of creating the wilderness. The goal is not ideology, but the original forest. If we return to Šumava, the intended goal is to restore the original edible forests with spruce to more than 70% of the forest area. It is a work of absolutely unique and worthy of admiration in Europe, which is also challenging, but it will require a number of qualified measures led by qualified people and time. Since the original transformation into a spruce forest lasted several centuries, it cannot be surprising that a correction cannot be done within a few years, but must last at least a few decades. However, we will learn absolutely nothing about this in the other paragraphs of the bill. The designer simply does not deal with the objective set. The professor is also wondering about the plan of gradual expansion without intervention zones. Literally writes: It is also unclear why the tendency to rapidly expand the natural zone, and thus also the so-called. Without intervention, when the restoration of the natural shape of the Šumava National Park has not yet been processed on paper, and it is certain that it will not be possible without human activity. Yes, in Sumava there is an island on the vertices of the natural spruce, but this area is only about 13 percent of the area and cannot be expanded because the spruce in this form naturally grew only there. I don't want to quote another paragraph, I don't know if the Minister is listening or not listening, another paragraph from the statement of Mr. Emeritus Professor. Although I have quoted his opinion, my colleague, Zahradník, has quoted other opinions, I am aware that these views may not be the only ones that are right. I quote them on purpose. The views of those who have written or supported the criticism of the bill may not be correct either. I quote them so that we realize that even on fundamental issues so called. experts disagree. Many things are argued about, on many topics they give different views. And in my opinion, The Chamber of Deputies is not here to judge this dispute. But she should be able to make sure that there is no law that goes on one side, so to speak. Dear colleagues, as a long-term municipal politician, I may be most concerned with the totally unjustified weakening of the position of municipalities located on the territory of the Sumava National Park. While the Senate's proposal left the municipalities with reasonable existing competences, according to the House's version, it remains basically a hostage to the momentary management of the national park. In its proposals, the Senate merely respected the rights of municipalities to sustainable development and kept, rather than expanding or adding, the municipalities' opportunities to influence life on their territory in cooperation with the management of the national park. Apparently, it was almost literally taken from the legislation of the neighbouring Bavarian park. Šumava as a link between the Czech Republic and Bavaria is unique in its history. The war hit her hard, and then the communists came after her, who had her locked up for a long time. After 1989, life slowly began to return here. For example, the Bavarian Forest, where tourists reach the border on marked roads, now there is even 70 percent of the area without intervention. Sadly, after 20 years, or even more years, we resort again to experiments that can really damage Šumava and the current development. I'd like to quote - I'm not quoting any more authority now, I know there's a certain impatience, nervousness, many colleagues have asked me how long I'm going to talk, if we talk in nine o'clock, I can talk in seven o'clock. I replied that I would speak for a reasonable period of time, given the controversy of this bill. I'd like to quote one of those letters that was sent to me. It is a letter from a citizen, ordinary, if you will, a citizen of Šumava, who sent me and perhaps other colleagues the wording of this letter. Hello. On Thursday, April 4, you will vote again on the National Parks Act. I've lived in Sumava for over 40 years. My parents lived here, and my children live here. I'm sorry to forget the fact that it took local residents' approval to declare a national park, and we were in favour. After defeating totalitarianism and re-acquired freedom, once again taking on the seriousness of local self-government and citizens' initiative, we wanted this consent to bring our beautiful nature and our lives closer to an advanced Western civilization. We wished for a modern national park, similar to the Bavarian Forest we visited. We felt the pride of the neighbors who created the national park mainly because of the depopulation of borders, bringing more money and more tourists into the region. They did that, too. Unfortunately, in my country, I see it quite differently, quite the opposite. I attach this to young democracy and to a hostile perception of the protection of nature towards people. That is why most of the people of Sumava were inclined to the amendment from a workshop of senators similar to the Bavarian law, and it is interesting that local authorities have the right to veto in Bavaria, while there is 70 percent of the non-imposition. Hat down before the state of democracy with our neighbors. [[18.50 hours]] Unfortunately, in our country, this Senate proposal triggered something that hasn't happened since the revolution. Anyone who thinks otherwise is a developer, a asphaltist, a concrete man and all that. The bearers of the only truth have been in the past, and it always ended badly. Therefore, I beg you to think again and look at it factually for the benefit of nature and the people who live here. If the park belongs to a nation, I don't understand why we're the ones who are taken out. Human rights and freedom should also apply in the middle of beautiful Sumava. I'm not naive enough not to know that political business is being done through Sumava, but I don't think we can be indifferent to the demise of the democracy of the people of Sumava. Thank you in advance for considering your vote. Jiří Valečka. So many citations of Mr. Valečka's letter. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to remind you that representatives of both regions on the territory of Sumava, Pilsen and South Bohemia, rejected this House version of the law. I remind you that on the issue of Šumava - I was involved in the meeting of the Pilsen Regional Council - there were party fights, and there were many votes to reject the House's version of the law. The only party that acted consistently with the way it performed here in the Chamber of Deputies was the TOP 09. Indeed, none of the three representatives in the Plzeň Region voted in favour. Otherwise, all other political actors in the council were either strongly majority or 100% majority. Including representatives, the vast majority of members of the ANO movement. Ladies and gentlemen, if you confirm today by your vote the House version of the law, you will vote against the will of both regions, against the upper chamber of Parliament, against the President and against the Šumava municipalities and, above all, against the vast majority of the people who live in Sumava. In the case of Šumava National Park, we will not approve the law for Šumava, but rather the law against the inhabitants of Šumava, against Šumava as such. I'm afraid if you agree to the law that is put forward here, no problems will be solved, but new problems will start. Please, fellow Members, reconsider your decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And another one is entered in the debate with the addition of his contribution, Mr Zahradník, with this, please. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this will not be a supplement to my contribution. Maybe I'll go on from another keg. Perhaps in this speech I would like to recall some of the important claims that have been made in relation to nature conservation in Sumava. Last year we commemorated the 25th anniversary of the founding of the park. Back then, there are memorials who remember the time, who remember how suddenly, with some confusion, expectations, not quite clear ideas of what to do with our republic, suddenly fell into the lap of Sumava. Sumava, which, as I said before, has had centuries of human settlements, centuries of history as a human mansion. There were dozens of villages, small settlements, big towns. And all of a sudden, there was 40 years of wired territory that the border guards were guarding before us so that we couldn't run over it to the West. Each of us, back then, the guys we went to Sumava, well knows how consistently they did it. How Šumava managed to cross the path of asphalt roads, which were to bring a guard with a gazebo to the scene of the arrest of the intruder in the shortest time, I don't know, within three or five minutes, so that they would arrive and the poor man, the boy, the girl, fleeing for freedom through the Iron Curtain, returned again to reality, preferably to some communist prison. And this Sumava they decided to protect, declared a national park. The national park was actually declared in the whole territory of Bohemian Sumava. Now we see that it was probably a mistake that the park was too big, that so often reminded of the Bavoř, who have given us the national park as a role model, they did it differently, in the territory of a third. While municipalities are directly intraviled on the territory of our park, this is not the case in Bavaria. That's where the situation is a little different. Yet we are still confronted with how well the Bavor do it. Sometimes we are even accidentally confronted with how well Rakušan do it when our forests are compared to theirs. The forests on the Austrian side mostly belong to the Schlegel monastery's economic forests. So they're forests that aren't national park forests. Different people expressed themselves in the process. I'd like to recall some of those quotes. For example, one such, let's say, the guru of the wilderness process, Professor Fanta, said: It is necessary to ensure a strategy of mixed diverse forest crops, otherwise we will move in a vicious circle. - Strategies of mixed different ancient forest crops. Unfortunately, it will be very difficult to realize that now in Sumava. What such a forest looked like, says Hřivnáčův's guide after Šumava published 1883, in reprint 2005. The forest, like most forests in this landscape, consists of four fifths of coniferous and one fifth of deciduous trees. The first one is the spruce and the fir, the second one is the beech. The spruce and fir are over 400 years old. They are up to 52 meters high at a diameter of 100 to 150 cm. Beech only up to 250 years. It is up to 25 meters high at a diameter of up to 56 cm. There are also giants up to 500 years of age over 60 metres tall, up to 3 metres in diameter. - That's what the fabulous woods looked like. This was the nature of the wild, described by Hřivnáč by the famous guide after Šumava. Another interesting quote I would like to mention here is Mr. Jan Kumpera's quote - History of Western Bohemia. The motto here is: The border mountains formed by mountain beech trees and conifers, especially by fir trees, were at least suitable for settlement. The mild climate reached its optimal temperature at the end of the 13th century. The long-term consequences of the 30-year war include changes in ethnic boundaries to the detriment of the Czech population, as the populated Czech areas were settled by new German immigrants. Here I have to say that I always ask how the advocates of the wilderness and the complete 100 percent unattractiveness want to achieve the growth of the fir in those higher parts, there will be a beech growing when there is no assumption in the monocultural genetic formation for the seedlings to get stuck there. If we don't help it, if we don't plant these trees, fir and beech, they won't grow there, and it'll be a recurring spruce forest, as Professor Mrkva says in his article, still some sort of succection. [[19.00 hours]] Adalbert Stifter in the book Memoirs of my great-grandfather - Die Mappe meines Urgrossvaters, which was published in 1922, is quoted here, he talks about life in Sumava. He says: The life of all people in the old Sumava, Čech, Němec and Žid, all without distinction nationalities, has never been easy, simple, relaxed and light and has been very far away from expected romance and book idealization. And here I would like to draw attention, ladies and gentlemen, to my colleagues and colleagues, to the quote, and I turn not unintentionally to my fellow Members, Members and Members for KDU-ČSL. It is a quote from Dr. Petr Pithart, who says: "On the Bavarian side of Šumava lies municipalities outside the territory of the national park, yet the Bavarian Assembly gave them the right to veto. It's natural and fair. The people who live in the region must be able to decide whether to avoid the region as part of the experiment, whether to become poor and depopulation, or to remain attractive and able to make a living. Our Šumava municipalities are within the national park and the right of codecision has been denied, more precisely in different ways." This is an essential quote relating to the position of municipalities in the new, you-promoted House of the draft law on the conservation of nature and landscape. Yes, municipalities there have the right to agree with them on the formulation of basic documents, the principles of care, the rules of visitation, but while with municipalities and regions it is precisely determined how many representatives on the park board and with the park board it is necessary to argue with them, it is no longer stated in the law how many members the park council can have, and so it may be quite possible that if the municipalities are not obedient, they will rebel, so the park director simply nominates a number of council members able to overrule those 24 representatives of municipalities and regions who are legally members of the national park council. This is what Dr. Pithart anticipated then. And here I have to say, unfortunately, his colleagues can't hear it. Another interesting quote is Ondřej Fibich's quote from Old Šumava's Most Complete Vocabulary. He says that one of the twilights of Sumava occurred between 1928-1931 and the beginning of the economic crisis that halted economic development. Since these years the settlement has practically not developed, on the contrary, numerous plants of mills, hamrs, sawmills, glassworks and others have ceased to exist. The Sudeten Party came into this in 1938 and the emergence of a protectorate and the gradual depopulation of the male population for the military discharges of Hitler. In 1945-1947 almost all of Germany's population was moved away. Sumava died for many decades and gradually its thousand - year structure fell apart. Josef Váchal in the book of Sumava the Dying Wanted -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u17	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment. I'm having trouble understanding you because of the elevated noise level in the room. I understand it's tough after 19 o'clock. I'm gonna ask my colleagues for some peace, and if you have anything to deal with, move to the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u18	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'll raise my voice to the voice level of a teacher speaking to a naughty, obsessive class. In his book Šumava dying and romantic, Josef Váchal wished that the conditions would return before the Beetle Calamity from the second half of the 19th century, as they were captured by Karel Klostermann, when the Šumava forests carried in them a glimmer of the ancient pagan forests. Yes, it's Fibichův's debatable text, I'm not. It is possible to look at it with two eyes, but it proves that Šumava is not a wilderness. It's all been changed a long time ago, it's been inhabited, it's been destroyed, today there's another settlement. Let's keep that in mind! Then there are two quotations: "Caring for cultural heritage in Europe means continuity of activities and importance associated with them. " "The land from which a man has left is overgrown and deserted like a man whose wife has escaped." The first one was Master Blažek, the second one is Roman Kozák. That was another quote. There's an interesting other quote I'd like to make here. It's a quote from Professor Dr. Bělohlávek, a candidate for science. He says that Šumava National Park is a public property that is financed by citizens' taxes, and civil law is to visit this park. Meeting people with a park has a huge educational effect. I will not quote from the National Park Care Plan because it is a dead document that has been replaced by some other document or already from the Šumava National Park website, but I quote here the misleading statement by the director of the Nature Conservation Agency František Pelc from 2013. He says: "National parks are established in the Czech Republic in a populated cultural landscape, therefore their mission should be to create conditions for maintaining historical settlements, local traditions and exploring nature within a friendly tourism that can be an important source of income for local residents." So also this, please, let's keep this in mind, let's not try to crowd out the people of Sumava, and let's not try to crowd out the tourists.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u19	I'll take a short break and ask for peace again. And those I turn to know who I turn to. I don't have to name it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u20	Okay. Ladies and gentlemen, I have one more quote from Professor Reiholf, the landscape ecologist from Munich. I quote the last sentence from his quote: "Active care for valuable biotopes is necessary to preserve species of cultural landscape, which concerns all of us. Each individual is responsible for our environment." Ladies and gentlemen, I can see that the desire to decide and vote is great, that you're already wondering what this zahradník is always bothering us about why he's doing this. I don't know. I am doing this because I think the people of Sumava must also get a word, and they must also be given the opportunity to hear their opinion here. Therefore, at the end of my speech, I will read the press release of the Union of Municipalities of the National Park of Šumava...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u21	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I call for peace in the third time! If there's anything you need to say, you have a chance outside the O.R.!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u22	I'll read it. The press release is written with some grim hunch about what is going to happen today, and it says this: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is likely to vote today over the President of the Republic's veto on the amendment to the Nature and Landscape Act. As of 1 June, the amendment to the law, which is bad news for Šumava nature, Šumava communities and their inhabitants, farmers and visitors to the national park, will apply. It is necessary to see the amendment in the context of other provisions of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, the Environmental Impact Assessment Act and the Supreme Administrative Court judicature. The provisions of the amendment on the undisturbed course of natural phenomena in the vast majority of the territory of the national park clearly define man and any influence of him outside that territory. During the legislative process, the Union of the municipalities of the Šumava National Park submitted sufficient specific comments and objections which were not heard by the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] The definition of the main objective, without intervention, in most of the territory of the national park without the possibility to restore the original edible compositions of the forest with a spruce mix of spruce will cause the current spruce economic forest to re-crust sludges of huge dimensions with an impact on forests of neighbouring non-state owners. This calamity and subsequent extraction will make the ecological and environmental functions of the Šumava Forest even worse, especially its water management function, which is already badly damaged today, despite false claims by the advocates of the wilderness. The design of Šumava municipalities for the gradual reconstruction of the natural composition of the forest and the gradual declaration of non-impositional territory was rejected. Šumava will not open to tourists more and the unattractive crap environment will make it even more difficult for Šumava's declining attendance. The amendment will have negative effects on existing traditional farming, which preserves the diversity of landscape nature, which is the cultural legacy of our ancestors. [[The President is ringing the bell to keep the noise down.]] The amendment in the Šumava Nature Zone does not allow the discovery and rescue of paleontological monuments, which are real and in Sumava thanks - or rather by guilt, I repair the iron curtains unexplored by the roots of our civilization. The vague provisions of the amendment will result in the destabilization of the institutional environment and an infinite number of judicial processes, which will significantly burden the state budget. Even today, with an area of zero-impact territory of 20 percent of the area of the park, the Šumava Park Administration does not have enough funds to operate. Further enlargement without intervention will mean additional expenditure from the state budget. It's not so true he doesn't care for any money. Signed for the Union of the Municipalities of Šumava National Park Antonín Šubrt, Chairman. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to follow this - I would say desperate - appeal to the Šumavák and their mayors in your vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you all for keeping the room quiet. President Stanjura is in favour of the debate. And once again, I'm gonna ask for peace. I hate to do this so much that I have to yell at you, so why are you doing this to me? [[Laughs in the hall.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u24	Thank you. So we had two options today - either we could comply with my fellow Member's proposal Zahradil and you could relax - Zahradil? [[Voices from the O.R. Gardener.]] Gardener? [[Cheer up in the hall.]] I'm sorry, Honza. And we could have read it in peace. You rejected this legitimately, and now you're obviously nervous that Mr. Zahradník is quoting it to you, because he and I consider the debate to be supported by facts, opinions, that sort of thing. It's not a sticker. We also don't say that anyone who supports it is an eco-terrorist like you who doesn't support this law, you say it's a concrete lobby, a developer, has a plot there, God knows what's behind it. I know it's a very simple argument to say, well, we're not gonna listen to him, those developers again, and they want golf courses. You don't listen to the opinion of the people who live there at all, do you, Minister? We're just smarter than the people who live there, and we're gonna make you happy, even if you don't like it. And that's it. I agree that these are desperate letters and desperate calls for the help of mayors, long-time mayors. And what's the answer? They're naughty, concrete lobby, developer. Preferably the developer. Like chop-chop, who's against it. We're saving. Let's keep the piece of nature. Minister, how many times have you said in the debate that, for example, Mr Zahradník and others defend the interests of developers? Many times. Many times. And if I wanted to use the words of your party boss, I'd say that's a lie. That's still a repeat lie. - We're still hearing it in a different context. Try to take the opinion of the people who live there seriously. Try to take seriously the opinion of a long-standing and successful governor. Try to take the South Bohemia view seriously. That's where your coalition movement is, isn't it, Minister? What is the opinion of the representative of the South Bohemia Region? Different than yours, opposite. So you from the Ústí Region know better than your party colleagues from the South Bohemia Region what is good for Šumava, South Bohemia and Plzeň Region. I don't know, maybe you should have chosen other representatives there who don't understand your helpful enlightened approach to this territory. What is the opinion of the Plzeň Region's representative? We heard it from the representative of the Plzeň Region. We're smarter again. Even the bad guys? And if I have accurate information - if my colleagues complete it, it's a major majority opinion, not the current coalition that's there after the election. [[unintelligible]] It was the view of these regions before the elections, there were elections, political representation changed, both politically and personally, and the view remained the same. But that's how he made deaf with deaf. You just don't want to hear it. And if I interpret well the Senate proposal you rejected, I know we're not voting on it today, so he actually said, "Let's preserve the existing powers of cities and municipalities." He didn't give any new powers. He didn't change the current state of affairs. Is the condition that bad? The government, whether regional or municipal, is doing it wrong? Years? In various political configurations to tell them in this case from Prague, although we are from different corners of the Republic that we know better than the people who live there. Yes, you're so proud that you know better than the people who live there, what's good for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I do not see anyone else reporting to the debate and ending the debate. Now I would use time to read some apologies. Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes for personal reasons from 18.30 to the end of today's negotiations. Mr Herbert Pavera apologises between 19.00 and 23.59 for personal reasons. Minister Daniel Herman has been apologizing since 19.30 for departmental reasons. Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes from 18.45 until the end of the day for personal reasons. Mrs Zelienková apologizes from 19.00 to the end of the day for family reasons - but here she is, waving at me. Mr Okamura apologizes for reasons of work until the end of the day. Since I have completed the general debate, we will continue to proceed on this point. Article 50 (1) (a) 2 The Constitution of the Czech Republic states that if the Chamber of Deputies insists on the passed law by an absolute majority of all Members, the law shall be declared. Otherwise, the law was not adopted. So I'm going to ask that it be set in a proper manner by the kvorum. Thank you. With priority rights, the President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u26	Thank you. Before this vote, I would ask for a five-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u27	Thank you. I will, of course, accept this proposal, so we will continue - I am interrupting negotiations within 19.24 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-002-001.u28	It's 19.24, we'll continue the adjourned negotiations. The number of votes we need is set to 101. We will therefore vote on the following motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies insists on the law amending Act No. 114/92 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended, according to House Press 501/8." I'm not registering any check-out request - I can see it now. That's what I thought. I'll ask you to rejoin your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the resolution tabled. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting 45, 149 Members signed in for 117, versus 18. [[Let's hear it.]] This proposal was adopted. I state that the resolution has been adopted and the law will be declared. That concludes this point. Let's keep going. We have a package of laws before us that have been returned to the Senate. Before we proceed to discuss these proposals, at the request of the President of the Senate, I propose that Senators Renata Chmelová and Eliška Wagnerová, Senators Lumír Kantor, Jaroslav Malý, Miroslav Nenutil and Pavel Štohl be allowed to appear in the Chamber of Deputies. Information on the Senate's amendments has been distributed to you in your mail. I'm asking who agrees to have appointed senators and senators perform. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? - I'm gonna ask you all to stay calm in the room. Voting 46, 144 Members registered, for 119, versus 2. This proposal was adopted. I'm opening another point.
