ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u1	8. Government draft law on the management and control of public finances /German press 1001/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the draft bill will be presented by the Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný. Minister, please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you a proposal for a law on the management and control of public finances. The draft law replaces the existing law on financial control. The current regulation of management controls was created in the framework of the preparation of the Czech Republic for accession to the European Union and is effective for 15 years without major changes. Practice has shown that the law in force is unsatisfactory in many ways. The draft law is presented because the current Financial Control Act does not clearly establish personal responsibility, there is no clear obligation to behave economically and the role of internal audit in the control system is not clearly defined. This leads to constant difficulties in managing public finances, where it is unclear who is responsible for what. Subsequent checks shall be carried out in duplicate and shall differ in their conclusions. The draft law was discussed in the Audit Committee, the Budget Committee and the Public Administration Committee. All committees recommend that the bill be approved. I would like to ask you to approve this material and submit it to the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for further consideration. This law also relates to another point - in relation to paragraph 9, public finances, I do not know, if anyone makes a proposal to merge the debate - I will say it. I therefore propose to merge the debate on these laws because they are related. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The committee resolution was delivered as House prints 1001/1 to 4. I ask that Mr Vladimír Koníček, Mr Vladimír Koníček, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Audit Committee dealt with the 1001 press and adopted a resolution at its 46th meeting on 20 April in which it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies that the Government's draft law on the management and control of public finances be approved by the House press 1001. He has not adopted any amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Laudát, speak gradually, whom I do not see anywhere in the hall at this moment. [[Member Laudat rises from his seat in the hall.]] I can see him now, I'm sorry, I keep looking forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President - Vice-President, I am sorry. The Committee on Budgets has discussed this material - this example was discussed on 19 April 2017 and adopted the following resolution on it: Following the opening words of Deputy Minister Tomáš Vyhnánek, the report by Laudát and the debate by the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament that the Government's draft law on the management and control of public finances should be approved as amended by this amendment: " (2) To the Supreme Audit Office, a municipality which does not exercise extended competence, a voluntary organisation of such a municipality established, a voluntary association of municipalities, a voluntary organisation established by a voluntary association of municipalities, a school, legal person established by a municipality which does not exercise extended competence or established by a voluntary association of municipalities, paragraph 1 shall not apply." II. It empowers the rapporteur to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The point is, in principle, that the members of the Committee on Budgets turned to the majority support of the proposal after it was argued by the author of the amendment by Mr Vilímc that this would significantly reduce the administration, and the majority - a large majority of the committee heard it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u7	Thank you. I will now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Klán, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. Let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which, at its 56th meeting following the reasoning of Dr Tomáš Vyhnánek, Deputy Minister of Finance, after the report by Mr Mgr Jan Klán and following the debate adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve 1001. As rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I am giving priority to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u9	Yes, thank you. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Klán has signed up with priority right at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u10	Have a good afternoon again. Mr Vice-President, allow me to present a few amendments to this law. I must begin by saying that this law may obviously have been written - I don't know if there are any people from a private company, but it is interesting that there are many mistakes in that law. The error, confusion, grammatical typos, etc. that corrects my amendment is not just one, but there are quite a lot of them, so I will introduce them to you all individually. This is an ex ante control, i.e. forward - at the beginning of a certain control. That is indeed an anti-corruption law. It amazes me to follow up on my colleague Chvojka that the reconstruction of the state does not deal with this law at all. She doesn't care at all, and she's interested in completely different laws, and then she blames us for not discussing some important laws for the functioning of the state. This is one of the key laws of the fight against corruption. Indeed, it is only two laws, it is this, i.e. the law on the management and control of public finances, and then, of course, the law on public procurement. No register of contracts or anything else, of course, can be added to the Supreme Audit Office Act, which reduces the level of corruption. But if we look at this draft law on the management and control of public finances, there is no way that the public administration position is taken into account. And those authors didn't realize that in my opinion. So I have prepared amendments. First, I prepared them with experts from Charles University who deal with this problem, so I reflect their position. [[16.20 hours]] So let us look at the various amendments. The objective of the management and control of public finances. In Article 5 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: The following shall be added at the end of the text: "and their protection against risks'. Now allow for a short justification: The protection of public funds against risks is so far laid down in § 4 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) Law No 320/2001 Coll., on Financial Control, and pursuant to § 25 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) feeling. The law is obliged, inter alia, by the head of the public administration body. establish and maintain an internal control system that is able to detect, evaluate and minimise operational, financial, legal and other risks in a timely manner. On the other hand, in the proposal for a new law which we have put forward here, it is only an obligation in Section 10 to introduce risk management, i.e. The duty of the process, ladies and gentlemen, but not the objectives. As mentioned, setting goals is an important interpretation rule that helps correct application of the law in accordance with the principles of good governance. Article 10 General provisions on management and control mechanisms. In Article 10, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The following sentence shall be added: "The administrator of the public budget and the public body for which the internal audit service is not established shall ensure that the reliability and effectiveness of the management and control mechanisms and the consistency of the operations with a view to managing the adoption of other sufficient measures'. Once again, I will introduce you to the reasons for this amendment: where an internal audit service is not established, internal control should work. The proposed section 10 is completely inadequate from this principle. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 only a brief task shall be given to establish management and control mechanisms. Following the entry into force of Act No. 320/2001 Coll., on Financial Control, have been jointly renamed departments and functions of internal control to internal audit. In the new criteria proposed, internal audits in a number of public authorities will be abolished. However, the aim should be to ensure that where they do not meet the criteria under Section 22 - the volume of expenditure, the number of employees, etc. - the internal control units or functions have been re-established, otherwise there will be a significant deterioration of the control system, to a level lower than it was before 2002. The amendment is based on the text of the present section 29 para. 6 of Law No. 320/2001 Coll., where it is required to replace the internal audit activity where the Internal Audit Service is not set up. K § 47 Efficacy. Section 47 reads: This Act shall take effect on 1 January 2019. I would, of course, like this law to apply and become effective on 1 January 2018, but unfortunately, for technical and practical reasons, Minister, it cannot be done. Once again, I will explain this to you: The law fundamentally changes the requirements for control systems in public administration, which have been created 15 years since the effectiveness of the previous law on financial control. Not only does it change terminology but it also introduces new elements, e.g. the role of verifier and evaluator. Several implementing decrees are to be issued to the law. And I want to ask you, how many are there going to be - ten, thirty, fifty? I'd like to know that, too. The Ministry of Finance claims in the explanatory memorandum to this draft law on § 4 that it will prepare an explanation campaign in the form of methodological aids and model guidelines. It is therefore necessary that the public authorities become familiar with all the implementing rules and methodological guidelines and then begin to change their control system completely. In addition, there are many problems in the bill, e.g. unclear provisions on the internal audit process carried out by the set-up staff in subordinate organisations, the qualification rules and tests of internal auditors, the creation of audit committees without specifying anything and determining their activities. At least part of the problems can be expected to be clarified by the Ministry of Finance when developing methodological guidelines. it will be time to issue an amendment to the law so that new legislation will contribute to improving the quality of control, not to the rapid expansion of the system that has been created for years. Please note that the Ministry of Finance gives up in the new law the right to control recipients of subsidies from various ministries, so for example. could not check the subsidies for sport provided to the body associations. I'm sure we're all aware of what happened here recently. So the Ministry automatically gives up the option to control it. And I think that's wrong. The law must make it clear. In the application of the law, the explanatory note, which in several places is not in accordance with the text of the bill, will not help, inter alia. refers to the non-existent Section 51 of the draft law or the Electronic Signature Act which was repealed in September 2019. [[in the written document indicated 2016]] Here, Minister, I wonder how this is possible. There's a law written, and there's a lot of mistakes, non-existent paragraphs, and references to long-determined laws. I don't know what this is all about. I'm glad I found some mistakes, and I'm pointing out here that we really improve the law and somehow take the mistakes out of it and sort of erase them all in some way. In the event that the law is adopted with the original date of application from 1. 1. next year and published in the Collection of Laws in autumn, public authorities will have a minimum of time to prepare for the new system. Moreover, the changes relate mainly to the economic sphere, where excessive cumulation of activities is common at the end of the financial year and at the beginning of the new year. The Act also obliges public authorities to issue several new internal regulations. The deadline for application from the beginning of 2018 is therefore completely unrealistic from my point of view. The current law on financial control is not contrary to EU rules, it establishes clear responsibility for decisions on each revenue and expenditure operation and control so-called. four eyes. The requirements for efficiency, efficiency and efficiency are in both the current law and Act No. 23/2017 Coll., on Rules of Budget Responsibility. In my opinion, therefore, too much haste to abolish the existing law is not appropriate. And let's really work through this law. We're pushing him again in some way fast. But it's a paradox that he's been preparing since you're in the government, in essence, like the CSSD, the ANO and the KDU-ČSL movement. Ever since you came and joined the government, you've been preparing this bill ever since. And it's been preparing for three and a half years, and just before the end of this term, you're putting it here, and it's full of mistakes. That's just mean, that. Well, let's move on and let's hear what mistakes I have found in this bill. Repairs of technical errors. K § 11 Performance of control. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 11 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the words "purpose a" shall be The beneficiaries of the subsidies are always determined by the purpose of use and, where appropriate, different conditions, e.g. the date of commissioning, the obligation to report different messages and many others. However, it is crucial that the funds be used in accordance with the intended purpose. Apparently the word purpose fell out of the proposal by mistake, so it is necessary to add it back to the text. Article 12 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the management of public finance control. In Article 12, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 3 Section 12 regulates the so-called Level 2 economic control, as defined in Article 11 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, is defined in Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 2 - control by public budget managers of applicants and beneficiaries of public financial support. The term is defined in Section 4 letter. i). Public universities and public research institutions should not provide public financial support to anybody, therefore they do not carry out level 2 management economic control. Laws are not to contain provisions whose fulfilment is impossible. The paragraph was written again probably by mistake, as the word had fallen out before. The same wording was also given in several other paragraphs, where there are some reasons. [[16.30 hours]] As regards Section 40 of the Annual Summary. In Article 40, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: This Regulation The Ministry of Finance sets out a decree on the basis of Sections 38 and 39 of the structure and method of transmission of annual reports to public authorities. From these reports, the Ministry of Finance will produce an annual summary which will be transmitted to the Government Audit Committee and to the Supreme Audit Office. The content of the summary must be based on reports transmitted by the various public authorities. By decree in Section 40, the Ministry of Finance wants to do its own task - how the summary is to look, there is no other addressee of the decree. This is completely unnecessary and absurd bureaucratization. That's the so-called utopia of rules, the attractiveness of bureaucracy. The Ministry of Finance can compile an annual summary without issuing a decree. Let's go to other grammatical mistakes and other uncertainties. K § 7 Administration of foreign funds. In Article 7, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 3 in the second sentence, the clutch "a' is replaced by the clutch "ani'. In that provision, the verb is in contradiction: "not affected', it is necessary to use the merging clutch "any'. Cannot be combined with "a" clutch. This is a Czech problem after that, so I would recommend to the Minister that he at least have it checked at the Czech Language Institute when he is presenting it to us. V § 22 Establishment of the Internal Audit Service. In Article 22 (2) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 4 'in its' is replaced by 'in its'. The draft law states "the administrator of the public budget may impose an internal audit service on a public body in its budgetary capacity'. In Czech, the subject is claimed by the pronoun "svoj". It is necessary to rephrase 'in our budgetary responsibility' - once again we are in the Czech language - that is the responsibility of the relevant budget manager to another administrator. V § 24 Scope of the Internal Audit Service of the Public Budget Manager. In Article 24 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: Article 3 (3) "in its budgetary scope" shall be deleted. The draft law shall state "if the administrator of the public budget has decided to set up an internal audit service, it shall ensure its budgetary scope'. In Czech, the subject is claimed again by the pronoun "svoj". It should be "in its budgetary scope', that is to say, under the responsibility of the relevant budget manager, not another administrator, as it is written there. As Section 24 states in paragraph 1 above, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the It's clear what's going on. Misuse of ownership pronouns and repetition of words on budgetary scope may be omitted. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I have presented to you several amendments to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. But, as I said at the beginning, it's an ex ante check, so we know in advance that we're going to allocate resources well and we're not going to waste resources. This is an important law, one of the most important laws for the functioning of our state. But please, don't bring it up here from the Ministry of Finance, you can't even read it - it also came to me on the committee when I looked into it, that it was simply not read, it was full of mistakes, and then I presented it in a hurry just because it was linked again to the European Union, that the European Union had sent something to us and that it was necessary to approve, and that is why we are going to fit the whole thing in there. That's the fifth law we've been doing around here. It's really rusty. And the user of the law, when he takes it into his hand, he can't figure it out because there's gonna be a lot of typos, a lot of other things. Minister, check these things and, if necessary, legislative technical modifications, read the grammatical errors at the beginning of the third reading, where the possibility is. It really looks stupid. I don't want to stand up for you, but I don't think it's a dilettante thing, but no one really checked it out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, it is pointless to say that I am a minister for ten days and that I am familiar with the basic principles of the ministry's work. I would like to thank Mr Klán for taking the time to read this law and proofreading it. We will certainly respect that in legislative technical comments. Now I will not comment on comments that are easy to correct, because it is really mainly language proofreading, but I will only comment on the amendments on which the Ministry of Finance has a negative opinion. The amendment, which is therefore marked with Article 1 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is hereby amended in accordance with Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, the Ministry of Finance does not agree with this, on the grounds that the aim of public finance management and control was wider in the original versions of the bill. According to the recommendation of the Legislative Council of the Government, the aim was to narrow it down to its current form to match the subject of the draft law on the protection of public finances. By supplementing that sentence, the bill would regulate a much wider range of relationships than intended. Risk management is one of the mandatory management and control mechanisms set out in Section 10. It is one of the fundamental pillars of the public finance management and control system and a tool for achieving the basic objective of managing public funds efficiently, efficiently and economically. In addition to this management and control mechanism, the law also regulates other mandatory management and control mechanisms and also leaves for each organisation of a state administration or a local authority to introduce, if necessary, other measures that could contribute to the protection of public funds. The objective of the law is also the result of negotiations with comment points, which explicitly stated that they require an adjustment to risk management in particular by legislative means. I merely recall that the bill was sent to 121 comment points and 2,365 comments were received in total, of which 1, 363 essential. This means that this bill was not a hot needle stitch and certainly did not fall into the Chamber of Deputies without thorough commentary. Amendment No 2, with which the Ministry of Finance also disagrees. The draft law provides for an obligation to manage internal audits in the event of compliance with criteria resulting from compliance with points of reference and reflecting the need for this mechanism in the organisations concerned. For low risk organisations, it makes no sense to establish an internal audit service in accordance with the principle of proportionality and the internal audit function cannot be replaced by other measures. In view of the personnel problems of small municipalities and other small organisations, it is not appropriate to set up replacement services for internal audits or employ other persons who would monitor the reliability and effectiveness of setting up management and control mechanisms. Such a mechanism would only constitute additional costs and administrative burdens. We certainly don't want that. The risks of organisations and local authorities, which do not have to be set up by internal audit services under the draft law, are treated by management and control mechanisms in accordance with Section 10 of the draft law. Specific authorities and persons shall be responsible for the reliability and effectiveness of the management and control mechanisms in the organisation of the state administration or in the territorially self-governing whole. This responsibility is directly provided for by the draft law in Section 6. Amendment No 3 on which the Ministry of Finance also disagrees. The draft law on the management and control of public finances has been being prepared for a long time. In the case of adoption of amendments, this is a political decision and it will be at the House on which date it will determine the effectiveness of this law. All other proposals are either language proofreading or not relevant. The Ministry of Finance has a neutral opinion on them, and I thank Mr Klán again for reading this law thoroughly. I'm just pointing out that everyone makes mistakes. Even Mr Klán here today told us that we are referring to the already repealed electronic signature law, which was repealed as of September 2019. [[Member Klán off the microphone: I said 2016.]] I'm not sure, but I guess September 2019 wasn't yet. Then I would like to comment on Mr Vilímec's proposal, which was adopted by the Committee on Budgets. The Ministry of Finance disagrees with this amendment and the reasoning is as follows. The draft law does not provide for a new obligation to prepare the annual control report. A similar obligation arises for small municipalities, contribution organisations and voluntary associations of municipalities as well as from Act No. 330/2001 Coll., on Financial Control in Public Administration, as amended. The annual report will contain only the most important information on economic governance. Compared to the report on the results of the financial controls presented today, the annual control report will be considerably simplified in both formal and content terms. The report will require only the minimum necessary information on management economic control and will be submitted once a year through the information system. The administrative burden of all obliged entities will therefore be reduced. [[16.40 hours]] Annual reports are the main source of information for the Ministry of Finance to focus the methodological management of management of economic control in public administration. On the basis of the information contained in the annual control report, it will be possible to assess the maturity and level of setting up of the entire public finance management and control system, which includes to a large extent small municipalities, contributory organisations and voluntary associations of municipalities. In order to ensure methodological support for these entities, it is essential to provide feedback from them in the form of information on management economic control in the minimum necessary form by means of an annual report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u13	Thank you, Minister. With priority rights, Mr Klán, then with proper application by Mr Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u14	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the extensive justification why the Ministry of Finance does not support my amendments. After all, when I spoke with the translator, you were not there at the time, Minister, that was the interesting government crisis, so there wasn't a former finance minister, but there was a deputy, and when I asked him how this law was made, there were, of course, many comment points - tens. But they also made it clear to me that they were lawyers, that only lawyers wrote it, and they never asked anyone in the public administration. And I'm here to put forward proposals that are from the public administration and are consulted with public administration experts. Just make it a little bit sweet in some way. However, I am not aware that I would say in September 2019, I said in September 2016, but this is not relevant at this time. The important thing is that the e-signing bill isn't. It's important to know that there are references to things that don't exist at this time. Well, that really needs to be fixed in some way. However, I have come up with one more thing, and I will now read the amendment here, of course I will say it a little bit in the detailed debate, but, as I said at the end of the text, the words 'and their protection against risks' are added, so I will give it another modification when in Section 5 paragraph. 1 at the end of the text, the words "to implement an effective risk management system including prevention' shall be added. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u15	Thank you, rapporteur. Now, Mr. Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u16	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Mr Klán and the Minister are right, the law is being discussed for a really long time. He's been on the Government's Legislative Council several times, I think she's returned the bill once. And I'm sure the law, I don't know if it's the main instrument in the fight against corruption, I don't know, I think it's kind of the Internal Control Act, the Internal Audit Act. But it is true that the problem of this law, this bill, but also of the current law is that, of course, public entities are different sizes. There are organisational elements of the state, state funds that have large budgetary resources, and there are also the smallest municipalities that simply have a minimum budget, but often almost have no employees. So now I would like to make a comment on the optics of the Union of Cities and Cities, because I am the chairman of the Financial Commission of the Union of Cities and Cities, and the Union of Cities and Cities as a point of reference to this bill. In many cases compromises have been made, consensus. Originally, the proposal contained that every public body should have an internal audit. So I'm pretty sure I'm kind of positive about it. In April - 13 April, the Financial Commission of the Union of Towns and Municipalities met on this very draft bill, it was before the meeting of the Budget Committee, and the whole meeting, it was about two or three hours, attended by Mr. Deputy Tomáš Vyhnánek, so we actually discussed not the legislative technical problems of the law, but the content of the law very closely. And, of course, it must be seen that the internal control system in a small village consists essentially of only two persons, otherwise it is not possible: the mayor, who is mostly not at all relaxed, and the accountant, who is often not even an employee of the municipal office. It just needs to be perceived. And, of course, members of the financial commission, mostly mayors or mayors, and I must say both small municipalities and large statutory cities, have been assured by the Deputy Minister that it is essential in the law to set up control of so-called four eyes, i.e. approvers and verifiers, etc. So that's the thing with which the Union of Towns and Municipalities, if they don't agree, at least they perceive it, and they won't definitely go hungry if this bill is passed. With regard to the amendment approved by the Committee on Budgets, he first adopted it and then approved it, the Committee on Budgets, this is a matter that has actually been discussed for about an hour at the meeting of the Financial Commission. And the debate clearly showed that it should be limited not only in this law, but also in this law the obligation of an annual statistical report, which burdens small municipalities with small or minimal administrative background. I know, and we also discussed that the content of the final report is narrower than it is under the current law, yet there was a great call for small municipalities or voluntary associations of municipalities with no administrative background at all to be abandoned as far as possible. The Financial Commission of the Union of Towns and Municipalities called on the Ministry of Finance to consider the effectiveness of certain statistical obligations, the submission of the inspection report, the final report, which is also presented once a year, there is no change. You know, when I drive, I've been a local politician myself for 27 years, and when I'm driving on those worries and in those small towns, I hear all kinds of sadness about the ever-increasing administration, bureaucracy. And it's not enough to just talk about the need to remove the unnecessary administration and bureaucracy. I think it's time to take action. The Committee on Budgets, you know, when something similar was a discussion about three years ago, not more, five years ago when an obligation was established, first it should be an obligation for all municipalities, then it is only for municipalities over 3,000 inhabitants to have to process the so-called PAP - a detailed analytical overview. I checked how much accounting work they've done with it myself. And let's say, yes, that PAP demanded EUROSTAT. That's why it's done. But I don't know if any data at the Treasury is even being used from that detailed analytical survey. I'm convinced they don't use it. I'm also convinced that no one reads the annual reports at the Treasury. If I'm wrong, let the Minister argue with me. I am convinced that no one reads it, that it is simply another bureaucratic administrative burden. And let us just cancel what the European Union is not asking us to do at this point. This is required from the perspective of some informational knowledge. But I certainly am not aware that anyone would ever read these annual reports, especially if it concerns really small municipalities. From this, on the basis of this discussion and even after a thorough discussion of the first reaction of the representatives of the Ministry of Finance was rather neutral, then it would probably come to that office, as the view changed a little bit, with the Ministry of Finance not wanting it. But let's try to see the reality of the matter that what no one needs, nobody reads, so let's not try to implement as an obligation - or she already is, but let's try to remove that obligation. You know, it's a small step if it's accepted. [[16.50 hours]] The Minister of Finance quoted his ministry's position. I believe there will be some time to consider whether this position must be so steep if it must be so negative. Let's remove things that, basically, when I asked if someone was using it, I learned that almost nobody was using it, and it's necessary and let's really try to simplify these things. The proposal does not concern those large municipalities which are subject to internal audit, it concerns those small municipalities, it concerns small public bodies. I was also quite interested in the fact that if this is an obligation for all the organisational units of the state, as it is designed, and I know that the Supreme Audit Office is an independent body and is also an organisational component of the state, why the Supreme Audit Office does not have to send it as the only organisational component of the state, as stated in the draft law. So it's just to illustrate the reasons why I put the proposal on the budget committee. The Committee on Budgets approved the proposal. And let's try to empathize with real life and the problems of these small communities. I know that if it stays there, that's what I've been briefing on the budget committee, so the mayors have learned to live with it, and they'll live on with it, but it's pointless if no one really needs it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister of Finance. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now respond to Mr Vilímec's contribution. Basically, it has to be said that the annual control report is actually simplifying, so it certainly is a step forward. I don't really care if someone at the Treasury is reading the control reports or not, but I'm sure I'll be interested in what they're doing with the data, and if there's anything at all, if there's any intention of doing anything about the data in favour of the public administration. If I find that this is not the case, that the data are being collected for nothing, then, of course, the Ministry of Finance will change its position on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u19	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. There was no further motion to return. I am launching a detailed debate in which Mr Jan Klán is signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u20	Thank you for the floor, once again, good afternoon, Mr Vice-President. Don't worry, I will not repeat the amendments I tabled in the general debate. I will now just apply to House document 6473, which is the amendments that I have tabled here, and I will now read one more amendment, as I have already announced in the general debate, namely that in Section 5 paragraph. 1 at the end of the text, the words "to implement an effective risk management system, including prevention" shall be added. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-06-ps2013-057-09-005-008.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate on this point. It's not like that. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for any final words. Neither the Minister, nor the rapporteur, nor the other rapporteurs are interested, so I finish second reading of this proposal and thank everyone. Let me read you a few apologies. Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes from 16.45 to the end of the meeting, Mr Jiří Holeček apologises between 16.30 and 21.00 for family reasons and Mr Martin Komárek apologizes from 18.30 to the end of the meeting day for personal reasons. Opening point
