ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u1	2. Government bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws /house print 855/ - second reading Please take the position of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka and the rapporteur of the Committee on Security, the Guarantee Committee, Mr Václav Klučka. We agreed to the proposal to repeat the second reading of this bill. The resolution of the Constitutional Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 855/7. Now I ask the plaintiff, the Prime Minister, whether he is interested in speaking at the beginning of the second reading. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I will not delay very long, I just want to appreciate the fact that we have succeeded before the Government has tabled this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies to reach a relatively high consensus across the political spectrum, and I firmly believe that we will be able to reach the end of this bill. I hope that we will be able to approve it in the Chamber of Deputies so that it can be one of the things that will remain after this term of office for the Chamber of Deputies. I am just reminding you that we are building a system of parliamentary intelligence control and strengthening the overall control of intelligence services in our country by creating a so-called. the second stage of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm asking if the rapporteurs want to speak. First of all, the rapporteur of the Defence Committee, Mr Václav Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have it difficult, I am both defence and security, and in this bill I work as rapporteur for the Security Committee. I won't be long either. The genesis is what the Prime Minister described. At the third reading we had, we returned the law to reading the second. I just want to say that the Security Committee has not repeated its meeting for second reading, insists on the original proposal that we have in the system, and I will sign up to it afterwards, after a detailed debate is opened, so that we can get it into the situation of a possible vote. At the same time, I am announcing that my amendment, which I had in my previous second reading, will no longer be applying for unnecessary provocation, virtually. in order to allow for a lighter resolution on the voting schedule to be submitted by the Committee to the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u5	I thank Mr Klučka. Member Tejc as rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee is not present. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Jana Lorencová first came forward. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u6	Mr President, colleagues, it is problematic when the law focuses on seven fundamental issues of meaningful intelligence control. It is feedback as the principle of effective control, who proposes candidates, qualifications of candidates who can submit a motion to carry out checks, the way in which they control, review decisions not to issue information and penalties in breach of laws and obligations. It is logical that insiders who have direct, concrete work experience in intelligence services have a more responsive view of the intelligence services and have a negative attitude towards all disproportionate interference from the outside. News services are sometimes called secret jargons, precisely because secrecy is a key privilege for them, on which their work stands and falls. It is therefore important to proceed to the issue of proportionality. It is logical that the increasingly complex and demanding security situation in our country, but also in the world, forces our company to deal with increased demands for protection of society and state interests. They're making us do it. It is equally logical that, after the experience that the Czech Republic has had with specific intelligence scandals, but also with scandals of all governments that were supposed to use the services, but did not do so sufficiently, or abused the information, it is a legitimate requirement for a company to protect the intelligence services to increase checks equally with the powers to ensure that the intelligence services do not get away with their mission. On which, perhaps, all who have so far agreed impartially on the bill's proposal for an amendment have expressed that such a proposed control will be ineffective, will just cost more money from the state budget, will give someone an interesting reward, but the effect will not be such as to guarantee the protection of state interests hand in hand with the protection of civil rights and freedoms. There are many clichés to the law, but it does not deal with important questions and arguments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u7	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u8	Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. Thank you for the floor. Since I would not be able to do so on a factual note, I have entered into a general debate with the fact that I would like to respond and explain in advance the matters which concern one of the amendments which it proposes to repeal in Section 5 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. The term "security' is replaced by the following: In the original Act, § 5 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) it is written: Military intelligence provides information (a) originating abroad important for the defence and security of the Czech Republic. - The word "security" wants to eliminate the amendment. So now let me explain to you a few basic concepts and a systemic grasp of the concept of security. External security, not defence, was perceived by the national state until the end of the Cold War mainly in relation to military security, because the military attack on the state by the proper army of another state was a dominant external threat. After its elimination, states not only built and maintained their own military forces, but also formed alliances with other states, implemented peaceful diplomacy, tried to mitigate tensions by mutual acts of trust, or to gain a time advantage for their own armaments. According to Mr František Škvrnda, who deals with this matter, national security is considered a state without threats to territorial integrity, i.e. a defence aspect of ensuring the security integrity of the state, and the quality of life of its citizens. To identify possible threats, i.e. information important for defence and security, because the concept of security includes the concept of defence, which can have its origins abroad, we must - not we can - also use the intelligence services available to the Czech Republic. Otherwise, we would basically resign to ensuring national security and the implementation of the objectives and tasks outlined, at the minimum possible threat to our national interests, which would be the result of the approval of the proposed amendment. Responsibility for this situation will fall on the head of those who raise their hand for this amendment. Military security, i.e. external defence, resource and environmental security, and finally political and cultural security, are considered essential areas of national security. The concept of national security as a definitional conceptual category represents a comprehensive, i.e. a comprehensive system view of security and defence, based on national interests, provides for the creation of optimal conditions for the operation and development of the state and prepares, where necessary, the use of armed forces and other means of force. National security of the Czech Republic is not in constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended, directly defined. However, its definition can be drawn from the definition of the basic obligation of the State in Article 1, which states that ensuring the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Czech Republic, the protection of its democratic foundations and the protection of lives, health and property values is a fundamental obligation of the State. And the list of conditions for declaring an emergency, state or state of war in Article 2 states: If sovereignty, territorial integrity, democratic foundations of the Czech Republic are threatened, or to a large extent internal order, safety, lives, health, property value or the environment, or if international commitments on joint defence, i.e. cooperation of intelligence services under collective defence, are to be made according to the intensity of the territorial extent of the situation, state of emergency or state of war. External security, i.e. also related to defence, is a political state in which a state, a group of states or an alliance of states is a far-reaching threat to their territory, population and political freedom to act. In order to identify possible threats, i.e. information relevant for defence and security, which may also have its origins abroad, we must - I say again we must, not we can - also use intelligence services. Therefore, my fellow Members, I ask you not to approve the amendment proposing to delete the word'security'. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u9	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Another duly registered member is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u10	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I can see that we are not exactly enjoying this - the intelligence services. After all, I would like to briefly justify the proposals that I will then make in the context of a detailed debate as a press that you have been stationed in the system for quite a long time, but I consider them extremely important, and that is why the law has returned to second reading to enable proposals to be made. I am concerned about the situation which I consider to be actually completely unnatural, that we are writing here on the one hand, how all intelligence services, their materials produced by them, their procedures and other issues are subject to secrecy, when various MPs are allowed to enter this level of control number two, that is to say, a special commission from verified people, and we are also saying, on some issues, it is not possible for the Director of the Service to issue such documents to them with the agreement of the Prime Minister, and at the same time, in today's version of the Criminal Code, we are in a situation where any of the law enforcement authorities on a proposal from the State's representative and with the agreement of the District Court can access any classified information to any object where classified facts are located, and we are free to get to know them, confiscate them and other things. That's just what I think is a completely abnormal state of affairs, where we've been patronizing police and state officials and prosecutors who can only enter with the court's stamp. [[16.30 hours]] I see this as a big problem, and I propose three alternative solutions. The first two are based on relatively simple logic and I would like to vote on them earlier, because I consider them correct. If it is the interest of law enforcement authorities to enter the premises where they are located, of course legally, which is reserved as such, it is not that I stole something from my home or that I find it during a random search of the garage or garbage can, but where there are legally materials of the nature secret and top secret, not even the lower categories, but really only T and PT, then the approval of the Supreme Court is needed for such a police authority procedure. And I give this again in two alternatives - either the Supreme Court in Prague, which I would consider most logical, because it is also the Supreme Court that allows wiretaps to the intelligence services, or alternatively the High Court in Prague and Olomouc, respectively. the two supreme courts competent. I don't care, I've just been charged with some statement that I don't like Olomouc as a priori. So, please, there's no complaint about this town. It's always been my criticism of the conduct of the High Attorney General in Olomouc, but not of the city, not of the court and nothing similar. If there were a chance that such proposals would not be accepted, because I know that it was the state prosecutor on the Constitutional Legal Committee and through the Minister of Justice that she was particularly strongly opposed to them, so I also had some communication with the Supreme Prosecutor, and I am presenting a possible third proposal that would effectively protect access to those classified information in my opinion much weaker, and not creating the real guarantee, but if those proposals that protect objects were not accepted by chance, then I would also ask that we vote on the third alternative proposal as well. And I will suggest that there be a special vote on points 1 and 4 and 6 and on point 5, which I do not consider necessary. I will return briefly to the reservations that have been made, virtually. written in various opinions that have come to this, how much it will make the work of the prosecutor's office or the authorities active in criminal proceedings difficult. First of all, I don't think that's such a problem, because those situations where you need to come to some object where secret and top secret facts are found, there really isn't much, and it really shouldn't be a situation where someone goes to see if they were properly billed or uninvoiced invoices for petrol or something like that. This really is a situation that I find abnormal and cannot happen. As far as the reservations communicated by the D.A. are concerned that they do not know which objects are the nature of Ta PT, that is not entirely true. It is known and it is run by the National Security Office for Private Objects, which must have certification and must obtain permission from the National Security Office. For state authorities, this really isn't one central location, but, of course, it's run by the relevant state authority, where the security director approves it, so even there, if there's a situation that they want to enter rooms that have certification to be able to find T and PT materials in them, and they're reserved for it, there's some security director who can verify it. If this happens by accident, they will simply have to suspend the operation and, if necessary, request the subsequent consent of the Supreme Court during the procedure. But I consider it very crucial that we create such protection, because here there are really two key state interests. On the one hand, an interest in criminal investigations, which I fully respect, but at the same time an interest in protecting classified information that is and can be in a number of cases, and that is to be done in the proceedings before the court, is to be assessed because their interest in the state's situation is much higher than their interest in the proper conduct of criminal proceedings. There are simply types of classified information that we share with our foreign partners, or others, whose coverage would really cause almost inconspicuous damage to the Czech Republic. So I just wanted to briefly present the proposals that I will make in a detailed debate, and I would ask the House very much to really think about them. In this case, I think that there are no stickers, although the Code of Criminal Procedure is being amended, but they concern absolutely clear protection of classified information, they concern intelligence services and, in fact, the way in which classified information arising from intelligence activities is protected throughout this bill is also addressed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u11	I thank Mr Benda. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u12	Thank you. Dear colleague, Prime Minister, fellow Members, I would just like to repeat some of the basic things, because we are discussing important legislation that has already been enshrined in the coalition treaty, and then in the government statement as a response to a rather serious one, I do not want to say chronic problems, but not isolated in our intelligence services. At the same time, I think it included a year and a half of the work of the working group of all parliamentary parties, which included consultation of all intelligence services. If I am not mistaken, they all agreed to the proposal and considered it reasonable. Everything has been thoroughly discussed in parliamentary committees, returned to second reading in the light of the dispute that occurred in the constitutional committee. And here I would like to ask your colleague, Marek Benda, what happened there in the second meeting, that there was no agreement, and what the agreement might look like. Thirdly, I think that the proposal to delete or not to delete the safety mention, unless it was discussed in the working group, so I would advocate not to put the amendment in, and I quite agree with what was said here by my colleague Chalupa. But I would like to call on us to take that step within this parliamentary term, because it would really solve a number of problems and improve service performance. That they are involved in international exchanges, cooperation, etc. and they need certain and new elements of control, it is indisputable and we should not discredit it with some very ad hoc effort either to stop it or modify it or something like that. Hence the thorough preparation. And I'd like to know the last thing that the reservation of the Constitutional Legal Committee was here, or what the disagreement was about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u13	I thank Mr Gabal. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If anyone else does not apply, and this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, I apologize, so there is a point in fact by Mr. Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u14	Mr Vice-President, I just wanted to respond to the question put by Mr Gabal. In the first session of the Constitutional Committee, the question was not addressed at all, while it was dealt with in repeated discussions. I don't see anyone's head. He just didn't get most of the proposal. I think that, in particular, because of the reservations that have been communicated by the Supreme Prosecutor's Office through the Ministry of Justice. I have tried to disprove them in part here in this debate, and I think the guarantee committee will look at them one more time and, if necessary, assess which of these proposals is acceptable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u15	Thank you. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I will end the general debate. I ask about the final words of the rapporteur, if any, by the rapporteurs. It's not like that. I do not see the proposal for a re-negotiation of the law to the guarantee committee and I am initiating a detailed debate, which Mrs Jana Lorencová was the first to sign up for. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u16	Mr President, I subscribe to the amendment to the Government Bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws, it is the House Press 855, House Document 6363.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u17	Thank you, ma'am. Another party to the detailed debate is Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u18	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, too, to sign up to House document 5875, which is the version of the mandatory consent of the High Court in Prague, 5874, which is the version of the mandatory consent of the relevant Supreme Court. And if these proposals had not been adopted, if they had not been adopted, then to House document 5877, which is a version of protection, respectively. increased attention when approving if law enforcement authorities want material in the classified and top secret category. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u19	I thank Mr Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr. Váňa. After him, Mr. Ambassador Klučka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u20	Good afternoon. I also sign up for my amendment, which is in the system under number 5311. This is therefore an amendment to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u21	Thank you. The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As I have already announced in the general debate, then I suggest you take a look at the 855/4 press, which is the resolution of the Security Committee of the 30th meeting held on 16 November 2016, when in Part 1, he has an amendment, which I hereby sign up for in the system, so that it can be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-002-002.u23	Thank you. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. If no one else reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. There is no interest in the final words, so I finish second reading of this bill. I thank the Prime Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
