ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u1	192. The proposal of the Liberec Region's representative to issue a law amending Act No. 243/2000 Coll., on budgetary determination of taxes, as amended /German press 791/ - first reading And here I welcome Mr. Governor of the Liberec Region Martin Půta - hello, Mr. Governor - because he will present the motion submitted under the authority of the council. Before I give him my word, I thank Mrs Věra Kovářová, who is rapporteur for the first reading and has already taken the floor at the rapporteur's table. There. I will now give the floor to Mr. Governor Martin Půta, but I will ask my colleagues to either take their seats or to transfer discussions that will not concern the budgetary determination of taxes into the foyer. Mr. Governor, I hope it's quiet enough for you to bring it up. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you in advance for the fact that the draft amendment to the Act on budgetary determination has come to the discussion of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, thank you for the opportunity to present the bill here briefly and briefly. The aim of this proposal, which was approved by the Representation of the Liberec Region last March and which was supported by all 41 representatives present from all political parties, is the return of value added tax revenues for municipalities and cities to value before 1. 1. 2012 when it decreased to 20,83 %. It is the same proposal as the Senate proposal, which was not approved in the House. Its main objective is, as it has been able to return funds to the budget of all regions for the original share, so it is also to return funds to the budget of cities and municipalities. The proposal is quite simple and brief. The tax revenue of municipalities should be as from 1. 1. 2018 to return value added tax to 23.58 %, which would mean an increase in total revenue of CZK 7.6 billion for cities and municipalities if I took the 2016 figures. You can imagine very simply that it is about 700 crowns per capita in each village, in every city in the Czech Republic. I am convinced that because municipalities are obliged to publish all their contracts in the register of contracts, they will be under very good public control and that the councils, mayors and mayors are certainly the most directly controlled by their constituents as they deal with all their budget revenues. So the cost of the state budget will be roughly CZK 7 billion, which is the figure resulting from last year. However, I believe that it will be well-invested money, money invested in the budget of self-governing entities that provide basic services for residents from the capital city of Prague to the smallest village somewhere in the Czech or Moravian border. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u3	I thank the Governor Martin Půta and I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Věra Kovářová to present the news report. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, the Liberec Region's representative has submitted a proposal 22. 4. 2016. The proposal is very simple and unextensive. In principle, it merely increases the share of municipalities in the national gross return on value added tax of 23.58 %. In addition to the transitional provision, the determination of effectiveness at 1. 1. 2018. The proposal was then sent to the Government for an opinion, which sent it 20. 5. 2016. The Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies then appointed me rapporteur and appointed the Committee of Budgets as a guarantee. It is my duty as rapporteur to point out that a similar proposal has also been made by the Pardubice Region's representative, the same material is also addressed in the proposal of a group of Members. Clearly, this is a very important subject that we should pay due attention to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u5	I thank the rapporteur for the report and open a general debate for which I have three applications so far. And the rapporteur was the first to speak as a Member this time. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u6	The esteemed colleague, my fellow Members, the material presented here by the representative of the petitioner, I think to all colleagues and colleagues, not only those with local and regional political experience, familiar, so I think that it is not beyond what has already been said by the appellant to present it in detail. Most of us certainly remember the extensive discussions that have taken place on this subject on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies in recent years. I would therefore like to stress, at least in my speech, that the proposal has the support of important organisations representing the interests of the municipalities. It matches the Union of Towns and Communities, the Rural Recovery Association and the Association of Local Authorities. Let me read their joint statement here. I quote: "The joint declaration by organizations defending the interests of the Czech authorities to change the budgetary determination of taxes. Partner organisations defending the interests of self-government without distinction of size, i.e. the population, with this joint declaration, declare the support of the Liberec Region's representative's proposal for a law amending Act No. 240/2000 Coll., on the budgetary determination of taxes, as amended, House Press No. 791, and they ask the responsible representatives of the legislative power to support the right of municipalities and cities to receive sufficient revenue when discussing this proposal at the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. The requirement to increase the share of value added tax to 23,58 % is considered legitimate by the self-interest organisations, since municipalities provide the largest volume of public services, the internal debt of the municipal infrastructure remains historically and new and new obligations are still being added to them without adequate funding by the State. The municipalities are well managed and responsible, and they are the fundamental pillars of the state that the state can rely on in the future. Partner organisations defending the interests of self-government therefore require the strengthening of the tax revenue of all municipalities, which will ensure the stability, development and quality of public services to citizens of the Czech Republic. Done at Brno, 20 January 2017.' So many joint statements of those organizations. I hope that, in view of this statement, the Ministry of Finance, headed by Minister Babiš, who we salute to the mountains, will not, this time, define this proposal in contrast to the recent past and continue with what I see as a very unfortunate campaign against the countryside. I don't know if this campaign is intentional or unconscious, which has been launched by, for example, the Act on budgetary responsibility and the Act on Electronic Recording of Sales, which they have and will have major consequences for municipalities and cities, even though some do not want to accept them so far. [[17.10 hours]] Mr. absent finance minister, I really believe that you will not be able to block the negative effects of your laws on municipalities and cities, on the Czech and Moravian countryside, and to strengthen the tax revenues of self-governments that will help rural development this time. Moreover, given what the Minister said at this point a year and a half ago, the means that can be redirected to self-government, which are better economic operators than the State, should be enough. What did Minister Babiš say? Quote: So vote for EET and there is money for municipalities, for everyone. - Listen once again: So vote for the EET and there is money for the municipalities, for everyone. If the Minister's words apply, and I want to believe that in this case, seven or eight billion crowns must simply be found for the development of municipalities and cities, for our entire countryside in increased tax revenue. Even for that famous EET that might finally be good for something. At the same time, allow me to update the following proposals. I propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days, and I propose ordering this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. She will certainly take note of her own proposals as rapporteur, and I have also noted them. Mr Vilímec will now speak in the debate and Mr Herbert Pavera will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u8	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, as the rapporteur has already said, there are currently three amendments to the Act on the budgetary determination of tax revenues in the Chamber of Deputies. House press 777 submitted by the Pardubice Region, House press 791 submitted by the Liberec Region and House press 830 submitted by Members of the Civic Democratic Party. All these initiatives have one thing in common, so it doesn't really matter what initiative we're discussing here. From 1 January 2018, they unite the share of the municipalities in shared taxes - I use the word unifying - on the 23,58%. The government, as we have ensured, has united and restored the original share of the regions in shared taxes since 1 January 2016, to 8,92 percent. At that time it was 8.29 per value added tax and increased to 8.92 per cent. As you well know and remember the heated debate, however, there was no unification in the case of municipalities. Since this year, only slightly increase the proportion of municipalities in VAT, from 20.83 % to 21.4%, while at the same time canceling the so-called VAT. an incentive component for the income tax of natural persons collected on the basis of a tax return. That was the senator's proposal, which was mentioned by the Governor, so it was not the proposal for 23.58, but only 21.4%. When I go back to the past, the proposal made by the Liberec Region essentially follows the proposal that I read in the second reading of the original proposal in 2015 because the idea of unification was actually created for the first time at 23.58 %. Perhaps it would be good for the rapporteur to remember the assurance of the government coalition and, above all, the Minister of Finance and the representatives of YES in December 2015 that the government, who rejected the proposals increasing or renewing the original proportion at the time, would have prepared an amendment to the Act on the budgetary determination of tax revenues relating to municipalities. Yes, last year about twice, the working committee met to determine taxes. Since it was not possible to agree on anything with the Minister of Finance, no amendment of the law was processed by the Ministry, nor is it planned in this term. All we have to do is go back a little bit. And here I would like to refute the argument, perhaps not so much against the increase, perhaps not so much from the Minister of Finance, but from the Ministry of Finance that, in the meantime, 16 or 17 years ago, there has been twice an increase in the budgetary determination of taxes. Yes, since 1 January 2008, the share of tax revenues has indeed increased slightly since the original share was 20,59 %, to 21,4%, in connection with the increase in the budgetary determination of taxes for the smallest municipalities. At that time, the increase in the budgetary determination of taxes was about 4.5 billion. Crowns. However, more significant changes to the RUD criteria for individual municipalities, reduction of size categories and other things were also part of the change, in particular the replacement of jump transition between these size categories by the so-called system. gradual transitions. In particular, the last one was the logical result of the earlier rendition of the permanent residence of citizens on the last day of the calendar year. But on this overall change, and I note, some cities have gone through a lot. It was mainly about Olomouc from the big cities - she was about 200 miles away at that time. CZK, and then a number of smaller cities in the population range from around 3,000 to 15 000 inhabitants. That is why, in 2012, the second change was mainly linked to the strengthening of the size category from 3,000 to 15 000 inhabitants. Overall, the change in 2012 with an earlier contribution to primary and kindergarten pupils, at which time it was 1.5 billion. from the General Treasury, so total was 12 billion. Crowns. However, this change in 2012 also brought a reduction in the budgetary determination of taxes for the four largest cities and a relatively dramatic reduction for some small municipalities with large cadastrals. Today, when we discussed national parks, especially the Sumava National Park, the municipalities in the Šumava National Park lost a relatively large share of tax revenues. In the meantime, this was actually discussed by the Governor in connection with pension reform and VAT increase, while the share of municipalities and regions in VAT yields decreased in 2012. As you know, pension reform has been abolished by the government without compensation, but the shares have only been corrected in the case of regions. This was not the case with the municipalities. Therefore, we can endlessly discuss with the Ministry of Finance officials whether the amount of 23.58 is correct or not correct, but therefore I use the word unification of the share of all tax revenues and, in principle, a complicated calculation, we get to the fact that the amount of 23.58 % is equivalent. And I consider that the municipalities require an increase in VAT to be a legitimate requirement for them. [[17.20 hours]] The Ministry of Finance argues that I do not want to elaborate on this completely, by how much reserves the municipalities have in their accounts, that the municipalities are well managed and that they are also involved in the overall higher collection of tax revenues. The rapporteur here recalled the recent or approved laws relating to budgetary responsibility, which led to a sharp response by the municipal authorities in particular. In principle, a responsible person is actually being prosecuted. This is the truth that should not apply, and therefore this proposal by the Liberec Region and the other two initiatives are trying not to make this matter work. The three legislative initiatives are essentially similar. They are all based on the fact that the share of VAT should be unified, the share of all shared tax revenues of 23,58 %. The representatives of the municipalities, regardless of whether it concerns the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association for Rural Reconstruction and the Association of Local Authorities, eventually leaned to discuss the Liberec initiative mainly because this initiative does not have any ambition other than the unification of tax revenues to the level of 23.58 %. However, I must point out, and this debate will certainly take place at second reading, that there is also a problem in this limited ambition. Over a period of time, it is mainly from the Union of Towns and Municipalities level, but I think it also applies to other associations, calling for an increase in the criterion of the number of primary and kindergartens pupils from the existing 7 % to 9 %. It turns out that the current criterion is too low and does not correspond in fact to the average non-investment costs that municipalities must incur as school founders. The change would increase about CZK 2,500 to CZK 2,700 per pupil on average. Such a change, of course, creates some consequences for municipalities that do not run the school. That is why, at least in this case, the second reading of this amendment is being promoted at a time when the overall budgetary determination of tax revenues is increasing. Otherwise, in the future, it is difficult for us to agree cross-cuttingly in all the size categories of municipalities. As regards the renewal of the so-called motivation, there was a big debate about that two years ago. The figures from last year and the prediction of this year show that the actual abolition of the motivation for the income tax of natural persons paid on the basis of the return will mean a greater negative impact for many municipalities than the Ministry of Finance at the end of 2015 and then Mr Martínek assumed. The inkaso of the return tax increased from 2,500 million in 2016. CZK 6,850 million. Crowns. In addition to the economic growth itself, the effect of the tax refund for the so-called "tax refund" has subsided. working pensioners from past years. Of course, some communities make money from motivation, some of them don't make money from it. A certain link should be incorporated in the system of budgetary determination of taxes to pay tax revenue in the specific territory where taxes are actually incurred. It is not black and white, but only a centralist approach, in fact, does not motivate the community to create favourable conditions for business, and that is wrong. I know that the existing coalition does not support the introduction of motivation for various reasons. It matches a certain profile and the actions of this government. But this moment is also important, although I don't quite think we should accept it right now. But it also includes, in addition to our proposal by Members of the Civil Democratic Party, the initiative of the Pardubice Region. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure there's more to this in the tax budget. But some other changes make the situation more obscure, complicated, and, ultimately, someone makes money from them and loses the other. That is why we should be very considerate. Some experiments, for example. on the transfer of the income from gambling tax to the budgetary determination of taxes, with which the Minister came to the Working Group on budgetary determination of taxes, I consider it one of the other complications. I believe that the majority of the Chamber of Deputies can agree at least on the need to remedy the situation that has arisen here in the budgetary determination of municipal taxes. No one can question that even by referring to the so-called. good management of municipalities. I therefore also recommend this House press 791 to be forwarded to second reading. I support the rapporteur's proposal to reduce the time of discussion by 30 days. And I believe that at the second reading it is possible to at least change the strengthening of the criteria of primary and kindergarten pupils, the change in addition to the unification of the share, the change that, at least in the case of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, self-government can agree on without difficulty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u9	I thank Mr Vilímc. And before we continue, I state an apology from 18:00 on the health grounds of Mr Vojtěch Adam and between 17.30 and 19 hours of Mr Daniel Korte. We will continue the debate by speaking to Mr Herbert Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u10	Nice and pleasant evening, dear colleagues, Mr President, Mr Governor, honourable members of the government. Let me also express myself as a representative of the mayors of municipalities and cities, because I have been mayor for 19 years, to this novel. I think it is very good that this amendment has come here to discuss, although we have had several opportunities to increase the budgetary determination of taxes for municipalities and cities. I think that if the share of municipalities and cities from the national gross return on value added tax is increased from 20.83 to 23.58 %, it will significantly strengthen the budgets of the municipality. I remember the recently increased budgetary determination of taxes in 2013, when our budget determination of taxes jumped by 10 million in the municipality of Bolatice, which is 4 440 inhabitants. Crowns. This is a huge amount that helps in the development of our community. When the budgetary determination of taxes increases by almost 2%, it will once again increase by several million crowns. And I think that's what this is about for all municipalities and cities to have enough funding to develop services, to develop life in the community, to improve the quality of life in the community. When I looked at the Government's statement on this proposed amendment, I am very sorry that it expressed itself negatively. Perhaps I would understand with the Prime Minister that he has not undergone any lower functions such as being a deputy, being mayor, deputy mayor, etc., so he does not know how to run the village and what the community and the city need. With Mr. Babiš, I'm not surprised that he doesn't want to give money to municipalities and cities, either, because 6 250 municipalities are not the voices of the mayors who would vote for Mr. Babiš, for example. And the citizens who live in these municipalities don't understand yet that if the budgetary determination of taxes is increased, the municipalities and cities will live better, as will the citizens. Perhaps it would be good to tell all citizens of the Czech Republic that this amendment can bring them an improvement in the quality of life. I believe that they will monitor the decision-making in the Chamber of Deputies and monitor how individual political parties have acceded to this amendment. I think that KDU-ČSL, which is a coalition party, will support the budgetary determination of taxes, because Minister Jurečka, as Minister of Agriculture, has the support of life in the countryside. And how else to support rural and rural life than by increasing the budgetary determination of taxes? The increase in taxes will mean greater development of municipalities and cities, it will also mean greater independence of municipalities from subsidies. I confess that we have benefited from subsidies since 2000-2001, when the first major European subsidies began. But I am sworn opponent of all subsidies because they bring unnecessary bureaucracy, unnecessary problems, polish clicks etc. And I've been saying for a long time that it's best to give money to municipalities and cities that know how to make the right use of money. By increasing the budgetary determination of taxes to municipalities and cities, we will, of course, enable municipalities and cities to better plan their development. So I think it's also a good thing and the support of these municipalities and cities. [[17.30 hours]] Personally, I also believe that it will be possible to reduce the number of officials if the grant titles that are in some ministries are reduced and which can also be cancelled. The money in the budget of some 7 to 8.5 billion, which is mentioned, which could go to municipalities and cities, is certainly to be found. After all, the economy is going well. So why not help the municipalities and cities? Moreover, the money will certainly be found on the saved wages of officials who will not administer grant titles, which may be cancelled within a few or next year. I would also like to say that I really think that what Mr Babiš here said in the past that municipalities have a lot of money in their accounts - yes, they do, because they are trying to manage well. But it must not be forgotten that they have their debts. And that, too, needs to be recalled. So it's gonna get even eventually, the surpluses with the debts. So they're not exactly world-class in that community. And if the bureaucracy from the state to the municipalities gets even lower and more money for the municipalities, there will be more services in the countryside, believe me, and there will be more happy citizens. I know what I'm talking about. And as I was saying at the beginning, I've actually been mayor for 19 years and 27 years in the municipal council of Bolatice. I believe, my dear colleagues, that you will proceed responsibly here to this amendment and that you will support this amendment, not only to proceed to the next reading, but to approve it at the third reading. And thank you so much for any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u11	I thank Mr Herbert Paver for his speech. We will continue with Mr Ivan Adamec's speech. A colleague of Antonín Seďa will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Governor, fellow Members, it does not give me the right not to speak to this bill. This is, of course, an increase in the share of RUD for municipalities. It's a commendable move. If I take this very popularly, the municipalities are at the end of the food chain, as they say, which of it is divided by the RUD. And I'm a little worried. We're at a time when the municipal elections aren't for another two years. The Minister is not here today, he controls the EET in Harrachov, so I don't know what he would have taken on this bill. I think we've already tried this place the last time it got bigger, virtually. The share of the tax budget was returned to the regions, and then we met with a great deal of disavowment and I would say with such a stern refusal that the municipalities had enough money. It looks like it at first sight, but the reality is, of course, somewhere else. And that kind of money now comes from the fact that we're actually in a time of economic growth and the taxes are actually going, but I don't think that because of the newly introduced instruments, it's already falling here, but it's just because the companies are doing well and that the circulation of the money is more or less there, and the share of VAT is relatively high on the share of taxes that the municipalities are getting from the RUD. So it looks really good. But there may also come a period that will not be so rich in the prosperity of our companies, and the community will immediately feel it. Perhaps I will mention 2008, when we suddenly lost CZK 40 million in the order of 280 million we obtained as a municipality from RUD, and that is already quite a high number and it is necessary to deal with it, because every community that wants to manage economically, this share of taxes should be sufficient for the normal operation of the municipality, because if it is not so, then the municipalities live at the expense of the future, because it is as if they are eating money that should serve as resources for investment. You know, there's always a debate around the RUD because of course these are coefficients, different shares there. Small villages shout that they have little, and they envy large, which, of course, provide completely different services. It's an artificial system. It needs to be said that it's an artificial system. It's a redistribution system. I have quite rightly registered here the comment of my colleague Vilímec on the motivational elements. I'm gonna be straight with you. The motivational element for municipalities is definitely not RUD at present. It is employment for municipalities to create conditions for companies to do business on the territory of the municipality. And that's pretty much how it's been set up for years. The last blow came about the tax mentioned here by a colleague Vilímec, who at first glance looked very unprofitable, but as it turns out, it's not entirely true. I understand that there is a need for a certain degree of solidarity between our communities and cities, because, of course, not everywhere is a life-threatening business. There are municipalities where this business is very difficult, difficult, and there is a need for these municipalities to have a certain part of the share of the budgetary determination of taxes, even though I say that infrastructure costs are incurred where the business takes place. And, of course, the municipalities that run the business today are kind of bits, because they have to spend more resources on the infrastructure that belongs to the business. And the only effect is employment. Let me just say a little bit more here, maybe that's what I'm thinking. You know, I don't think the state will want to give up the part that's part of the bill's content. It won't, because the package is one. And every time you put on a raise, you have to take it down a notch. And of course, the state doesn't like to give up what it chooses. In the end, most conjectures here in the attic The Chamber of Deputies is about what we will actually do for the state money in the Czech Republic, what we will pay for, where we will support or not. So maybe if the timing was in a year, a year and a half, I would have believed that the success of this proposal would almost certainly be guaranteed. I'm not so sure right now. However, I commend the Liberec Region's initiative because I think it is a big misunderstanding that municipalities have enough money. With regard to the management of municipalities with money, it must also be said that yes, we have come up with a lot of instruments here, we are publishing selection procedures, a register of contracts has fallen here, which I personally do not consider to be an anti-corruption instrument at all, but this could be a discussion for hours with me, because I think it is just a bureaucratic instrument from which virtually nothing can be recognized. And there are a number of ways to explore whether municipalities manage how they should, economically and with proper care, be able to manage. But I think we need to remember the main point of this problem, and that's the voter. If you think the voters are blind in these villages, I want to tell you that they aren't. And they watch very closely what municipal money is being spent on. And unlike the state, most of them can even do the math. Because you know it, our citizens, and now it's not an insult, it's just that, they just can count on thousands of crowns, hundreds of thousands, some with millions, but when it comes to billions and hundreds of billions, of course it's such an abstraction, and it's no wonder that some things can just elude them there. And, of course, the control mechanisms must be set in a completely different way. The control mechanisms must be adjusted completely differently. And the state has them. So why not? By the way, the last time we approved the so-called financial institute here, which, of course, was not the constitution, it was the law on budgetary responsibility, so paradoxically, where we should push hardest on the sawmill, that is, the state's management, we did not push too hard on the sawmill, and we added administrative acts to the municipalities in the form of other documents that they have to process each year with the preparation of the budget for the fiscal year. I mean, I welcome it. I'm sorry the Minister isn't here today. Maybe he'll get better by next time and listen to the debate here. And while we're talking here, and my colleague Pavera said that about the debts of the municipalities, I'd say the municipalities have huge internal debts. Most municipalities, and I would say that almost all of them have internal infrastructure debts, because if you take that time de facto since the war, how they invested in infrastructure, you all know what the infrastructure looks like from this time, regardless of how it may have served over time. And then there was just not much invested in the new infrastructure, like the sewers. Today, of course, we are catching up at the price of debt, at a price and one that we may not like to be vassals in our own way of European funds. Sometimes we approach conditions that we don't like at all, but there's just no money anywhere else, so that's why we're acting like this. [[17.40 hours]] Perhaps, to the very end, one more thought. You know, when you go down somewhere, and it may be in the vision that it is a good thing, because 2008 was really difficult, and the time of the economic crisis was definitely not only easy for municipalities, but also for our citizens, and not even for the state, so it is very difficult to get back on track. And in this case, I would very much like to support the bill, although it was not customary for us to cheer here and vote in favour of regional proposals. That's just the way it is, I'm not gonna comment on this anymore. I would very much like this to be approved, because we are really going to help the municipalities and the state will not lose. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u13	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Now, Mr Antonín Seďa, the last member of the debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Mr. Governor, fellow Members, there has been a lot to say about the amendment to the Act on the budgetary determination of taxes, so I would only like to make two comments. The first one, I want to remind you that the reduction in the share of taxes went to 1. 1. 2012 in the right-wing governments, where the STAN movement was part of a government coalition, and this was a reduction from 21.4 percent to 19.93 percent. It is currently proposed, as the petitioner said, to increase the municipality's share of value added tax from 20,83 % to 23.58 % from 1 January next year. Second point. The Government's position, which is mentioned in Houses press number 791/1, has already been mentioned and is disagreeable. According to the Government, the reason for this is the complexity and imbalance of the proposal. Another reason is that the decrease in the share in the past was not from 23.58 % but from 21,4 %. And the last reminder was the impact on the state budget. It's supposed to be 8.4 billion. koruna and not, as the petitioner and explanatory note said, 7 billion. Crowns. But I think that's because of economic growth. I would like to conclude personally that although I consider this proposal to be a per partes proposal in the light of the comprehensive financing of self-governing bodies, I support it in the next legislative process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u15	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. In fact, my colleague, Ivan Adamec, is still reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr. Governor, fellow Members, I was relieved that even colleague Seďa says that another legislative process is needed. But I was gonna say one thing. Today, in 2017 and the crisis ended in 2014? [[From the diaper: 2013.]] 2013, so we've been slipping in that fix for four years. So please think about this dimension as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Another factual point by Mr. Josef Uhlík and then colleagues... They know that electronic factual notes take precedence. Both colleagues are being logged. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr President, Mr Governor, colleagues, I have only briefly, because I have also been concerned for 16 years, and now I am the Chairman of the Financial Committee in Ratíškovice, so just to say that the municipalities are doing well now. I'm not saying very well, but okay. One example. 2012 from Ratíškovice cca 27 mil., last year tax 40 mil. One hundred and fifty percent. So what we have to say is that this is what it looks like in our communities that we have very solid incomes. As far as 2017/2016 is concerned, this is equivalent. In the first two months of January, February compared to last January, February, 470,000. So I'm just setting an example of a 4,000-dollar community. I, of course, now as a representative and, on the other hand, a Member, a person is in a double role, I have no problem -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u19	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u20	- raise taxes, but it should be, I think by the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u21	I'm tolerance alone. Thank you. Now two factual points from the point of view. Mr Kučera and Mr Horáček. First, my colleague Kučera, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u22	Only briefly to his previous speaker, Mr Seďa. I'm also glad you're more or less supportive of this. He's a little bit like the pension reform where some things are also being dealt with there by not exactly standard procedures through government proposals. So I think that's a good thing. I just want to say to balance the system that, on the one hand, we have the budgetary determination of taxes and the money that flows into the municipalities through budgets, and on the other hand, we have the unfortunate subsidies and the subsidy system. I think that every responsible government and every responsible House and every responsible economy should just strengthen the quality and well-balanced budgetary determination of taxes at the expense of subsidies. This means that subsidies should be reduced and should really focus only on extraordinary issues rather than on standard funding. And I'm just a little scared that this grant instrument, grant titles are being used - and this government is an example of that - more and more often. For example, one particular example where this is a completely bad example of using subsidies, such as supporting the construction of kindergarten schools. This seems absolutely wrong to me, because this is a thing that should be financed mainly from the budgets of municipalities, virtually. regions which are the set-up of such facilities. If this is solved through subsidies, we're just saying: you're in the hands of those officials, you have to meet their conditions, you have to meet those parameters. That's how the community can deal with the money according to their conviction -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u23	Mr. Ambassador, your time has ended for a point of fact. Thank you. Now, Mr Horáček, then Mr Adamec, also with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am, of course, glad that the initiative comes from the Liberec Region, from my region, but it is not important because the mayors meet throughout the Republic and discuss this problem. I would just like to point out to the previous speakers, both at Ivan Adamec and at Herbert Pavera, that they may have forgotten in the debts that the state is ordering more and more services that are imperfectly valid. It doesn't apply the whole thing, and then, of course, the municipalities have to pay it back because the state has ordered the service and keeps adding. Well, that's one thing. The second thing that surprises me is the government's attitude, because wherever government officials, ministers come and discuss with citizens and discuss with the mayors and the chieftains, they praise how the mayors have actually learned to manage money over the years, how they manage money and what everything has been done and done in the municipalities. That is why I very much acknowledge the proposal to strengthen the budgetary determination of taxes, because, as we have already said here, we have actually helped the municipalities once before, we have found that the municipalities really do well to manage almost 100 percent of their resources, and if we want to show them that we support them, that we appreciate them, so colleagues and colleagues, please, let it go to the next round, give it to the proper committees and certainly it is for the good of the whole Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u25	I thank Mr Horáček and now Mr Ivan Adamec's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u26	Thank you. Mr President, Mr President, Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to respond here to the leap in budget revenue that has been mentioned here in the community of 4,000. You know, the way we feel about this is that in 2012, we approved an amendment to the Tax Budget Act, which took money from four of the largest cities, and then it was redistributed into municipalities in different ways according to size. And it's possible that in the case of a 4,000-dollar community, this jump did it. Some municipalities didn't jump, at least the four of them took the money. And I can speak from my own experience of a 32,000 city. In our case, it made about 20 million out of the 280, 290 at the time. [[17.50 hours]] So it can be very different. I just wanted to explain so we wouldn't really see it that way. And let's really take it that way, and so did our colleagues here, yes, it is necessary not to look at the absolute amount of money that comes from this, but at the structure of drawing this money from the particular municipalities. And that's where I think there's this buried dog where, on the one hand, we say it very populistly - some politicians say it, I don't - communities have enough money, so they don't need anything anymore. But it's not like that. If you look at what these communities have to do for it - and it came down here, too, that the state has imposed a lot of legal obligations on us, and the money isn't working out. And the state is doing it so cleverly, because in a number of cases, the money is bowing to us and those activities that we could possibly reduce, we can't, because - and why would we do it when the money is there for exhaustion, and where we know that we need the money differently and add it, it just doesn't work there. It's really about the drawing structure of the money, and since we have a merged public administration model, it's just sometimes-- [[- Mr. Congressman...]] Yes, I'm sorry - sometimes it's a problem. Please let's do the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u27	Thank you. Now there is a factual point by Mr Liberty. And then the chairman of the ODS Club is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u28	Thank you. I'd just follow up on my previous speaker's words. Each coin has two sides. The change in the budgetary determination of the taxes that this House voted for meant less than 850 million to Prague. Can you imagine what that money is, what a hole in the budget it is, and what that means? These are things that really need to be done with great discretion, to count on one side and the other. If you take Prague, which fulfills a number of other functions, the function of the capital. It's very expensive - all the diplomatic corps, all the events that are here. Even the other three cities, which were less damaged by the new tax determination, all struggled with it for another three years before they dealt with the issue. So I'm very, very warning against any reckless voluntaristism - I'm going to take it down, I'm going to add it. It's not that simple.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u29	I thank Mr Svoboda for his time on the point of fact. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura now. We are still in the debate. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u30	First of all, I really want to thank the government's majority sincerely for finally putting our words on it. At least that's what it looks like. Since the motion was repeatedly voted here, it was repeatedly rejected. Or very similar. And there's no point in competing for who was first, who was second. What matters is what the outcome will be. I'm going to take a little tour of the past, because I met Petr Gazdík at a meeting with Deputy Minister Janota at the time. We have created a working group to change the budgetary determination of taxes. I don't know if it was 2007, or 2008 anymore, but sometimes at that time. [[Vice-President Gazdík: Seven.]] Seven, Vice-President Gazdík calls me. And that's when we first started the debate on the budgetary determination of taxes. The popular discipline of all finance ministers is: here's the pie and you'll kill yourself inside as you divide it. It worked pretty well. We heard a performance by the former mayor of Prague, who paid for the last change - he and his town. Some other cities will pay for it. On the other hand, the vast majority of cities and municipalities have improved, and especially for those experts who know it, we have chosen the turn, the u, which was in the budget revenues of the municipalities. In particular, it was very beneficial for cities from three to ten thousand inhabitants. Why this proposal is good and deserves our support as much as possible unchanged, is that this time it does not share the pie that belongs to the self-government. And that's a completely different debate. Here we take it at the expense of the state, maybe the county. Respectfully at the expense of the state, because the regions have no change, and therefore the debate within, in the Union of Towns and Communities, the Association of Local Authorities and among the individual mayors, is much easier than when any finance minister says: so calmly, but I will still lose the money and you agree on how you share it. However, in addition, I certainly want the right principle of increasing the share for municipalities to 23.58 % of VAT - and I just want a shortcut. The increase in tax collection, as the economy grows, will not last forever. So it is not worth arguing that municipalities' incomes are growing during economic growth because they are either stagnating or declining in recession or stagnation. And every mayor knows that if he's planning his investment program, he still doesn't know at the beginning when he has the idea for the event, if it's really going to happen in those years, there's going to be enough tax revenue or not. So, basically, it's right that we're talking about a share of taxes. When the economy goes well, cities and municipalities get more money, and if it doesn't do so well, they get little money logically. However, in this competition within the municipalities for those shares we are gradually disappearing almost completely some principle of support for those who create good conditions for business and employment. Always the argument - yes, Mladá Boleslav, good for her, and Prague. The others are on it. But then the system is unfair in that-- and I'm going to take, like, two five thousand or ten thousand cities. One council is actively creating good conditions for employers and the other does not give a damn. And de facto they get the same thing. I think we should think about in this parliamentary term how to project the principle of merit in order that the one who tries and creates the conditions to create jobs in his city is better off than the one who doesn't. I remember the debate, today we take it for granted - it was a very difficult part of the money to divide by the number of pupils in schools. And it's a fair principle. Again, when you compare two smaller municipalities, one that has a school, and one that doesn't have a school, of course, there are completely different costs for the village. And it's a good thing we put that parameter in place. But let's debate if it's right. I'd make it a little stronger. We all say, and I think it's true that school is the cornerstone of life in the village. So the bondification of the community that's setting up that school, which means there's a lot of costs, should be higher than today. At the same time, we dropped out, and I am very glad, the undignified negotiation about what non-investment costs are. As one mayor sent another bill to fix the school, and now we were considering whether it was an investment or a repair, and that's how it was paid. This is all right. And that's what we could discuss. But even if the proposal stays unchanged, that's good. We have a very similar bill. I'm saying there's no need to compete for who was first. So we're prepared to increase this parameter over the long term. To be fair again. At the time we changed the ratios between big, medium and small, but we also changed the revenue from gambling and directed directly to the municipal treasury much higher income from gambling than before. Because before that, the lottery companies had the authority, then the municipal authorities got it. Which is much better. And it's up to every council to decide whether they tolerate gambling in their territory. So he's getting some revenue from his profits, and he can reinvest it in sports, ecology, pavements, that depends on the council, or not. However, in the debate on the change of the RUD, I noted the proposal or the idea that we would centralize all the money from gambling and divide it by population. And that's not a good idea. Because I'm sure it's better to leave it in that particular town or village. Those who decide freely that the gambling will not be there do not count on the resources. Those who decide to be there, whether it's regulated in time or in place, in turn, those powers of self-government are quite powerful, so they count on those returns. At the same time, they know that this alone carries some public policy costs, etc. [[18.00 hours]] Well, I'd warn you before that, we should fundamentally change it like this a few months before the elections without a more thorough debate. And it is high time, because next year there will be municipal elections, and if we set these rules from 1 January 2018, all candidates for municipal elections can have an idea of how large the financial resources will be, what investment plans they can offer to their voters, and with what really can voters get what they can really reach out to them with. I'm an optimist. I think we're gonna make it through this parliamentary term. Let's talk about the shares, the scales, or the motivational file. Even if we don't find a match, let's support the law. I'm going to ask everyone not to ask for additional conditions, so they don't say, "I was in favour, but because they didn't pass my excellent idea of changing or introducing a new parameter - altitude, I'm going to change the weight of the cadaster, etc., e.g. I'll change the weight of the number of pupils. Which I'm in favour of, but I don't want it to be an excuse not to pass the law in the finals. During this parliamentary term, ANO colleagues here have come up with a new method that has not ceased to amaze me to this day: first I will support the amendment and then I cannot vote in favour of the law because the amendment has been passed. So I would like us not to use this method for the budgetary determination of taxes, so that, if necessary, we keep it on other bills, those poorly written and unnecessary laws, we have quite enough on the agenda. This is a well written, simple law that deserves our support mainly - not today - especially in third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u31	Thank you to President Stanjur. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. With a factual remark, Mr Kučera. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u32	Thank you for the floor. I would only react briefly to my colleague Stanjura. I'm more or less inclined not to really think about so-called. centralizing the collection of money from gambling. It's a thing that's very sensitive. It is a matter that now moves the municipalities, the council deals with it today and daily, whether they are to gamble on their territory, in quotation marks, or not. If there is any right way, it is to put enough tools in the hands of municipalities to effectively regulate the gambling so that they can squeeze it out of those urban areas where they don't want it, or from locations where they don't want it, and so that they can ban it. However, I would like to point out that it has already been decided exactly right before that the proceeds or part of the proceeds from gambling are directed directly to the village where the gambling is operated. Since the municipality or representatives can actually decide for themselves to assess how much their city is at risk of gambling, whether there are locations where they do not want these gambling to be operated, or whether they will even introduce zero tolerance. And it's all up to the representatives, not the decision-making of the state or the ministry that they don't see in the municipalities. At the moment we start budgeting this money per capita, that means the number of citizens, so, of course, some municipalities will bear costs that are relatively negative, with gambling, and the other will benefit from it, that they will have revenues. So I believe no one will think of going that way and putting it back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u33	Thank you. So far, Mr Fiedler, Mr. Fiedler, has been the last one entered into the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. What I wanted to talk about was just mentioned by Mr Kučera, who mentioned it here. I was just surprised by his attitude. He himself rightly mentioned that there is an aspect that municipalities or municipal districts that operate gambling and have a return from it, and then there are other districts where often people who are affected by it and their families, and it has social implications, bear the consequences. That's what he said himself, but he warned us to do something about the distribution of taxes. On the contrary, I am not sure that this is the right thing to do, because it will very easily happen in cities where there are urban districts, that one city district, which - I am not saying that it will directly declare zero tolerance of gambling, but we know that it will - it will not support these gaming rooms, but it will have to bear the consequences of this, especially now I say in those big cities where there are districts, these people are moving around the city, and suddenly there will be revenues in one district, but the consequences will be another circuit where, in theory, the accumulation of these citizens can occur. The rapporteur was with me at the exit meeting of the budget committee in the North Bohemia Region, or in the Ústí Region, where we had tables - there was no colleague Stanjura - that the border municipality, which lies at the border with Germany - now I am not sure if I remember the sums well, the village of 600 inhabitants had how many million returns, I do not want to say the figure, it was a huge number of revenue from gambling. And I can imagine because I'm from the Moravian-Silesian region, like Jesenicko, Osoblaha and other areas when you arrive, a big problem. Farming went missing. People don't have it, they just don't get it, and the state won't help them with the bad luck of having it lying on that tip of the republic where rich tourists or rich clients from Germany, Austria, don't spend money on gambling. And I really don't think that the view of dividing the revenue from gambling in a way that where it comes from, let's leave it there is clearly correct. I'm not saying it's clearly right to divide it across everyone, but I'd rather lean towards this wrong version than leave it the way it is. Don't be mad at me. In order for someone to profit from it, and the other to blame and not have to bear the consequences, there is no right option. It is a pity that the subcommittee on taxes, customs and lottery has not met for a long time and has not dealt with this issue, with statistics, after we changed the gambling law, with the consequences. So in conclusion of my performance, I don't think it's right to leave the gambling taxes only where they come from. We should think very carefully about how we're going to share it. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u35	I thank Mr Fiedler. Mr Vilímec and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u36	Mr Vice-President, I just have a brief remark on gambling. Yes there are municipalities, one is needed by Česká Kubice in the Plzeň region. They are border communities that have relatively large proceeds from gambling. It's not connected to any clientele. It is simply linked to the fact that they are border communities. And we can discuss whether they should have that amount of $100 million or not, but I'd like to warn you that the money will be distributed centrally from gambling. When a similar objection was raised by the Minister at the work meeting for the budgetary determination of taxes, I said to him: Go and see what it looks like in these municipalities as well. It all has two sides of the coin. On the one hand, income, on the other hand, of course, costs and all the negatives associated with it. So I'm just signing up for that yes, let's have a debate around this issue sometime, but I wouldn't have linked it to the budgetary determination of taxes at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u37	I thank Mr Vilímc. If no one else is in the debate, I am done with the debate. I am asking about the final words of the appellant or the rapporteur, as appropriate. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u38	Mr Vice-President, Madame Members, I will again be very brief. I think the one-hour debate has shown how many parameters can be reflected in the budgetary determination of taxes, how many different opinions about how to change precisely the budgetary determination of taxes have been expressed here. That is why the ambitions of the Liberec Region's representativeship were relatively small - and that is the return of the only parameter to the period before 1. 1. 2012. If you consider your support for this proposal and its release for second reading, I thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u39	Thank you, Mr. Governor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u40	I would like to note that the series of speeches that have been made here have been made in support of this proposal. During the debate, a proposal was made to shorten the committee's discussions for 30 days and a motion was made for a commandment for discussion in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u41	Thank you to the rapporteur. We will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We shall vote on the commandment submitted to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 189, 117 Members and Members registered, for 114, against 1. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. The rapporteur said that this should be a committee on public administration and regional development. Anyone else have a suggestion? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u42	Thank you for the floor. I'm suggesting more constitutionally legal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-013-192.u43	The Constitutional Legal Committee. Please. There. We will first vote on the commandments of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I have begun the vote on this proposal. Who's in? Who's against it? It is the vote number 190, 117 Members and Members registered, for 108, against 2. The motion was accepted. Furthermore, we will vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. I have begun the vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. Who's in? Who's against it? It is a 191 vote, 118 Members and Members registered, for 37, against 41. The motion was not accepted. The last proposal we will be voting on is a proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days. I have initiated this motion for a vote. Who's in? Who's against shortening the deadline? It is a 192 vote, 118 Members and Members registered, for 55, against 45. The motion was not accepted. I therefore note that the proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee, then to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I thank both the draftsman and the rapporteur, and I conclude the first reading of this bill. The next item to be addressed is the interrupted item.
