ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-000-000.u1	Hello, everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening on the third day of the 56th session of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all here. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I declare that the following Members have asked to apologise for their absence at today's meeting: František Adámek - foreign travel, Pavel Antonín - health reasons, Jan Bartošek - health reasons, Jiří Běhounek - working reasons, Ondřej Benešík - working reasons, Marie Benešová - working reasons, Zdeněk Bezecný - personal reasons, Jan Birke - personal reasons, Milan Brázdil - health reasons, Pavel Čihák - medical reasons, René Číp - health Zahradníček, Radim Fiala - family reasons, Petr Gazdík - working grounds, Stanislav Grospič - Milan Šarapatka, Leoš Heger until 10.00 excused for work reasons, Gabriela Hubáčková - medical reasons, Petr Kořenek until 13.00 - working reasons, Jiří Zemánek excused without giving reason, Roman Kubíček from 14.30 to 19.00 for working reasons, Jaroslav Lobkowicz - foreign travel, Karavelová Radka, Votava - working reasons, Czech Republic - working reasons - working Dana, Czech Republic - Karel Tureček - working reasons, Czech Republic - Lukáš Václav, Czech Republic - working reasons - Jan Volný - working reasons - working Váhalová, Czech Republic - Vlastimil Vozka - Helena Válková - working reasons, Czech Republic They apologize to the members of the government: Mr Bohuslav Sobotka from 11.00 for work reasons, Mr Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek until 10.15 and from 16.30 for work reasons, Minister Richard Brabec until 11.30 for work reasons, Minister Jiří Havlíček for work reasons, Minister Milan Chovanec from 11.00 for work reasons, Minister Marian Jurečka until 14.30 for work reasons, Minister Miloslav Ludvík for foreign travel reasons, Minister Martin Stropnickýý for morning meetings for work reasons, Minister Kateřina Valachová until 14.30 for work reasons. So many apologies that we know about for now. [[It's busy in the hall.]] Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 288, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. At the same time, I would like to point out that by 11.00 at the latest, applications for oral interpelations may be submitted and the drawing of lots will take place at 11.30. Let me ask you, there's a limited number of us here, so if possible, we'll reduce the noise in the hall and settle down. And we'll proceed to discuss the point.
