ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u1	74. Government bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its solution (Insolvency Act), as amended /German press 1030/ - first reading We have interrupted this item on 27 April of this year at the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and, at the same time, we have interrupted the general debate. I ask that Mr Robert Pelikán and the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Jaroslav Borka, take the position at the rapporteur's table. I ask whether the applicant or rapporteur is interested in speaking. They don't. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. On 27 April, the general debate was interrupted by a speech by Mrs Jana Černochová. I'm asking if the Member... But he's not present, so he's not interested in performing. I ask who else wants to speak in the general debate. Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I just want to propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days, given the running time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u3	I'm registering a reduction in the deadline to 30 days. The vote on that. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Mr. Mr. Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I have been waiting for the Minister of Justice to come forward now to answer the questions, reservations and comments that were raised here during the first reading. He has done only one thing, he has proposed a shortening of the deadline, which I do not know if this is how we should hold a debate in the Chamber of Deputies, Minister. I don't know if I should reminisce about the comments that were here. And they were quite serious and they were comments concerning the comments made by the Union of Towns and Communities, the Confederation of Industry, the Chamber of Commerce, the Supreme Court, the Supreme Administrative Court, the Regional Courts and the like, and these comments were not even incorporated. But I'm not gonna repeat them here today, and somehow...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u5	I'm very sorry, colleagues, but please let your colleague finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u6	I will not repeat the comments here, I suppose in the final word, or at least I invite you to do so in the debate so that we can respond to that, you will answer the fundamental reservations that have been here. I just want to sum up for Club TOP 09 that we will in no way support this law. We consider it a moral hazard that promotes non-payment of debts and non-compliance with contracts, which fundamentally harms creditors and their constitutional right to protect the ownership of creditors. In our view, this law supports the irresponsible and takes the opportunity to satisfy their claims. So that's why I've already proposed in interrupted first reading and I'm reminding you of three variations, that means rejecting this proposal and if it doesn't pass, return to work. And in the event that this proposal fails, the deadline should be extended by 30 days, because we should not approve these pointless and, say, socialist experiments at the end of the parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. However, I politely warn the Minister that he cannot propose because he is not a Member. The extension of the time limit may be... And now there's an active MP! Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u8	Thank you for the floor. So I will represent the Minister and suggest that we reduce the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u9	Yes, thank you, Mr Kubíček. And I ask who else is joining the general debate. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u10	I want to ask the Minister if he has any arguments or is afraid of debate. I know I'm gonna sit out, I'm gonna be quiet, I'm not gonna say anything, I'm gonna cut the deadline, I'm gonna push it through. [[unintelligible]] But the questions, the reservations not only from the opposition, but also from the institutions that Mr Plíšek spoke about were a lot. And the Minister does what? She's quiet and she's smiling. So what? There are two possible answers. Either he doesn't know the answers, which is a little sad about how he interprets, what a priority it is for him, or he's afraid of the debate, and he knows his arguments are lame. Then I hope that both of my opinions will be refuted by your well-founded speech, Minister, and you will answer those questions and reject those doubts or criticisms, and you will submit some facts. Not by me setting up a law here, let's not debate it, let's cut short the deadline to be here again in 30 days. Of course you can. But then it's either first or second. Then there's no third option. In the meantime, you have a third chance to answer the questions and disprove the doubts and answer the criticism. It's up to you which of the three options you choose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. If no one else reports to the general debate... aha, Mr. Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, I am in favour of addressing the problem of insolvency, which affects a large number of our people, our people. The problem is, we can't select how many people get into debt traps, not by their own faults, but by other circumstances, and not by their recklessness, which accumulates more and more debts. According to this proposal, for example, the debtor will be indebted if he repays at least half of the creditors' claims in three years or at least 30% of the claims in five years or tries to repay the claims for seven years. Then the satisfaction of creditors may be less than 30 per cent. But the pursuit of repayment of claims is a very vague legal concept which, in my opinion, can be easily abused in practice, and can lead to the creditors' side that they will not get their money at all. So I assume that the Ministry, or the Minister, has prepared for the second reading some refinement of this provision, this term, and some refinement. The explanatory memorandum states, inter alia, that the purpose of the amendment is to address the problem of debt traps while allowing some debtors to return to legal economic activity. However, it is also possible to view the amendment by simply trying to address the consequences of over-indebtedness, but not by addressing the reasons that lead to over-indebtedness. Perhaps the causes of easy debt in the Czech Republic, such as easy loans, advertising massages by the media and so on, should be addressed. Of course, this is not a question of regulation in the insolvency law, but it is very closely related to this problem that we are trying to resolve today. I believe that if we focus better on preventing debt, they will not have to deal with the new and new conditions of debt management in this way. [[9.40 hours]] I support this bill, but there must be some refinement at second reading in order to avoid what has already been mentioned here, and this is the moral hazard, which means that softening debt conditions does not mean that people will still be more easily subject to those advertising campaigns and will borrow even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u13	I thank Mr Hovorka. He is still apologizing for today's meeting throughout the day, Mr Milan Urban. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u14	Hello, thank you for your word. We have said enough about these things with the Minister, and I do not want to repeat the various arguments that have already been made. Perhaps I would just like to point out to the sněmovna that this kind of trial, that the debtors who are in that debt trap - and here I acknowledge that there are sad cases, and I am even willing to accept that these people are not always responsible for this - so let us not just describe the debtor as a novel by Jindřich Šimon Baar For a cow, that means some poor man who is really poor, and we will help him out of poverty, but we must also see the Feldkurate Katz of Švejk, which means: This is what we need when people lend us. And I guarantee you that Katz's Feldkurats are more than the ones the law suits. And if we approve this law the way it is designed, then - I'm not afraid to say the word - mass abuse. And those debtors - the way it works is that they're already reading the headlines today and they're already learning there: there's going to be a change. And payment morale is falling now because they're waiting for - as I think the Minister says the word, but maybe it wasn't him, so I don't want to attribute it to him, the word - he didn't say it, he said it, Mr. Plíšek - General Pardon. So, of course, they're not stupid and they're already watching, and the payment morale is falling now even for those who can. So I would just point out - with this law very carefully, let's not let it happen to us that perhaps even a well-meaning intention will help those who really don't deserve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u15	Thank you. With a point of fact, or properly, Mr Fiedler, please? [[It's a real point.]] It's a real point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u16	Thank you for the floor. I've already said it here the last time we discussed this point in the first part. I agree with what the previous speaker said about Katz's Katza, that's what's convenient for us when they lend us. Well, why are they lending us? Those borrowers should bear their trade risks. And again, I'm sorry, I'm gonna go back to the fact that they're borrowing that they're sinning on the hammer of the executions. That's why they're so recklessly lending because they're saying at least we're gonna get some of those debtors. And colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies, I have suggested here several times that we address the issue of executions, multiple executions, unnecessary multiple executions, where these people are charged unnecessarily multiple charges. You turned it down. Let me repeat that we're dealing with point C, and we've missed points A, and colleague Hovorka said that maybe even points A, which allow it to be borrowed headlessly. Unfortunately, you rejected my proposals to deal with the executions. What we're dealing with now, I don't understand why there's now a meeting on the agenda, what's been here since the Senate since 2015, you've rejected that step a few times before a little bit of execution. (?) Unfortunately, I have nothing more to add.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u17	Thank you. Chairman Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u18	Thank you for the floor. Given that, as I am following Minister Pelikán here, he clearly does not intend to speak in the general debate. I don't know if the reason is that he doesn't know the answers or isn't ready. If this is the second option that he is not ready, then I will allow him to prepare, and I would like to request a break at the TOP 09 meeting for 30 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u19	Thank you. And I'm interrupting the House meeting until 10:14 p.m. when we proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a pause at the TOP 09 meeting. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u21	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm gonna ask the minister if he wanted to get off, if I didn't just beat him. You want to get out? But in the final word, if I understand correctly... [[He doesn't want to.]] Maybe you'll answer. We had the break for that reason so you could think about the answers, so I wouldn't want to, as long as they're fresh in your head, beat you to it. [[Minister Pelikán does not want to speak at this time.]] Okay, I'll talk. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleagues, of the comments that have been made from many places about this law. I think that they are very fundamental and that we should have them right before the Minister, as he has promised now, responds, refreshes the rest of us, and perhaps you, too, who may not be so devoted to this particular bill. I think it is important to start with the Supreme Court because the observations of the Supreme Court's civil and commercial college on this bill are really important and essential. I will skip those relating to the timing of the whole amendment proposal, and I will get to the law as a whole in general and to the comments the Supreme Court has on this press. Let me quote: The Supreme Court, contrary to the petitioner, considers that the existence of multiple executions against propertyless debtors... [[The MP is shutting down because of the noise in the hall.]] Thank you. ... that the existence of multiple executions against non-sequential debtors who do not have the means to pay their existing and enforceable obligations and the impossibility of such persons to resolve their bankruptcy in the field of insolvency law in a bail-out manner, since they are unable to repay at least 30% of their creditors' claims for five years from the proceeds of their assets or from their income, is not the reason for the proposed changes. The insolvency law does not work, it does not and cannot function as an instrument to dedebt all categories of debtors - natural persons "at all costs". Its primary objective in economic terms was never to dedebt the debtor. Where such an institute was introduced and did not work in the form of a debtor's settlement agreement with creditors, but as a favor forced by the state for the money of creditors, it is in the game, and as it is served from Germany's experience in preparing their bankruptcy law, it has always been primarily an assessment of whether a civil society, in which the rules for debt relief, not the creditor himself, but the state power at its expense, is rich enough to afford such a concept.... Here I will repeat: not by the creditor himself, but by the state power at the expense of the creditor himself. Next point. More than a century of experience with the functioning of bankruptcy law in the territory of Bohemia and Moravia shows that every time creditors have lost their trust... [[Once again, the MP silences himself for the great noise in the hall.]] So I will repeat it so that colleagues who did not listen to it: More than a hundred years of experience with the functioning of insolvency law in the territory of Bohemia and Moravia show that every time creditors have lost confidence in the effectiveness of the insolvency law system, usually after they have found that they are excluded from effective control of insolvency proceedings and that the profitability of insolvency proceedings is extremely low for them, it has led to a rejection of the current adjustment after some time, as it has proved to be massively circumvented in favour of the idealised and reality of economic processes that do not fit the legislator's ideas. A similar process can be expected - to be feared - after the adoption of the amendments now proposed. Next point. Let it be noted at this point that the House's press 785 contains the position of creditors in debt relief already by restricting, firstly, their ability to enforce a meeting of creditors, secondly, their ability to enforce a change in the insolvency administrator, thirdly, the guarantee of verification of the honesty of the debtor's intention in debt relief by abolishing the debtor's mandatory personal contact with the court prior to the decision to approve the debt waiver. [[right: weakens]] Eight o'clock. In combination with the abolition of the current, i.e. the 30% quota required to achieve the effect of debt relief for debt relief, it can be expected that the "cocktail" of measures directed against the interests of honest creditors will increase their efforts to thwart the debt relief process and promote a consistent examination of all the debtor's offences under the current legal condition on the subject of recklessness, negligence and dishonesty of the debtor even where their approach was still neutral - they did not care, in principle, because they had certain 30 percent. Next point. However, from the text of the proposal itself, let us compare paragraph 16 of the draft amendment to Section 395 - that there is also a limit here, so that not all "necessary" will be able to enter into debt. Without regard to the declared intention, it can then be demonstrated that some proposed changes are contrary to the purpose of de-debting, the typical example of which is the change in diction § 416, which is point 49 of the proposal, which results in the debtor being less indebted. If the proposed changes are passed, the insolvency courts may be expected to start, in part, under increased pressure from disgruntled creditors to assess more strictly the fulfilment of the conditions for authorisation, approval and duration of the debt relief, as provided for in Section 395. Some of the proposed changes then testify to the poor orientation of the petitioner in the current version of the insolvency law. They're implementing something that's already regulated by the law. - That's what I think is important, too. We see that there's been a presentation of what's already in the law, so maybe a schlendrian. [[10.20 hours]] The Supreme Court points out that I will no longer read the brands in the resolution of 24 July 2014, the Collections of Judgments pointed out that - and I quote: Under the law prescribed by the 30 percent quota, the satisfaction of creditors - which is Section 395 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) insolvency law - the exemption from the payment of the rest of debts may, in debt, cover up to 70 per cent of the debtor's debts without regard to whether the creditor agrees and whether the creditor is in the same or even worse social and property position than the debtor himself." In other words, the effort to debt the debtor at the expense of creditors at any or too high price may necessarily lead to and sometimes will certainly lead to the bankruptcy of creditors of the debtor, especially if it is creditors, which are also natural persons, i.e. consumers. In conclusion, the Supreme Court adds that, although it generally appears a beneficial effort to analyse the functioning of similar institutions in foreign legal systems, years of experience in the functioning of bankruptcy law and subsequently insolvency law in the Czech Republic, it demonstrates that mere mathematical transfer of foreign concept to another legal order does not work anymore because the way in which civil society in general, and creditors in particular, is built on debt relief processes, is significantly influenced by the reliability and speed of the process of negotiating civil administrative and commercial disputes on claims and the enforcement of judicial decisions in the field of enforcement law. An example of the infunctionality of the transfer of such an arrangement to another environment is Slovak regulation, which has a number of features consistent with those introduced by the Czech proposal, as evidenced by the specific knowledge that the Supreme Court has from frequent direct contacts with Slovak bankruptcy judges. Even after eleven years since the adoption of the law, it is an adjustment that has not fulfilled the excessive expectations of the legislature. For the conditions of the Czech company, it is hard to expect a willingness to further mitigate the conditions of debt relief at the expense of the satisfaction of creditors for the part of the middle class that behaves economically responsible, it is more likely that an increase in frustration from the fact that others pay off their debts and rely on their forgiveness by the state at the expense of creditors. Then there are comments on the individual points. Of course, you can look up these comments for yourself here. I think it was crucial to mention the ones I read. And then there is also the fundamental position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. Many of you are also active here at municipal level - mayors, councillors, representatives at all levels, of course. So I'm sure you should know the union's position as well. [[The Minister objects off the microphone.]] I remind you of that for today's meeting, Minister. I know some colleagues must have read it, but I believe not everyone has had time to get to know it. That half-hour wasn't long enough. So now I will allow myself to comment, which are only of a general nature, and I am shortening it, it is not entirely so that the minister, who is already looking forward to his performance, does not wait too long. The proposal is inspired by foreign insolvency proceedings systems, particularly in Germany, where there is no threshold for repayment of debt obligations for six years and in Austria, where a limit of 10 per cent is set during seven years. The petitioner of the proposed legislative change advocates the good functioning of a similar system in neighbouring Germany. However, there is a benevolently set condition of 80 347 approved debt relief in 2015, which is an average per capita of 0,103 %. In the Czech Republic it will be up to 38 000 in 2020 according to the calculation of the petitioner, which represents up to 3.5 times the German practice. This system will bring enormous numbers of people into debt in the Czech Republic, which is unprecedented in Germany or in other neighbouring countries. In Austria, it is similar to Germany, so when we compare ourselves with these systems, it is strange that we should have such an enormous increase. It is clear from the comparison with neighbouring countries that the debt relief institute in the Czech Republic is already being overused, as debtors are under-informed about its details and basic rules. Such proceedings will then end after a few years of repayment and reimbursement of the costs of the insolvency administrator without a desired result. Bad debt results go hand in hand, but so does its abuse by debtors, who take credit only a few weeks before they propose debt. Unfortunately, the amendment deals with such dishonest intent in a very general manner and leaves at the discretion of the overloaded courts to assess these border situations. The introduction of provisions that allow debtors to go through debt relief more quickly, but with a fixed limit, after three years of 50 per cent of liabilities and after five years of 30 per cent is unlikely to be used in practice, since the amendment to the target group does not reach the current 30 per cent limit. Furthermore, the amendment introduces only one way to satisfy creditors, namely a payment schedule with the cashing of property substance. According to the current text, creditors must choose either a repayment schedule or a cashing-in of assets. The solution, which could mean higher performance for creditors, has its protective limits in the amendment, which make it more or less unusable. This applies in particular to the protective limit in the provisions of § 398 para. 6, where the debtor is not obliged to issue the assets for monetary purposes unless the proceeds exceed CZK 100,000. Furthermore, the same paragraph states the protection limit for the monetization of the debtor's dwelling, which is set at a thousand times the amount of the normative housing costs per person under the Social Support Act § 26 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) 4 484 CZK, i.e. the value of the dwelling must not be less than CZK 4 484 000. For example, the average price of flats in the Ústí Region is based on less than 600,000 CZK. I think for about 4.5 million you'll buy... [[Once again, the Minister objects.]] He's not there anymore? It's not there anymore! Very well. We'll find out about... [[The Minister is still talking.]] When the minister comes out, he'll fill us in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u22	I ask the Minister not to yell at the lady. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u23	Thank you, Mr President. The petitioner does not justify why it should be just a thousand times the normative cost of living. The protection of some of the debtor's extraordinary income after approval of the debt relief may also be regarded as a problematic adjustment. Article 428 (1) (b) of CRR Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the sentence shall not constitute an exceptional income from claims under insurance contracts for damage insurance and claims under the right to compensation for property and non-property damage. Such protection may have absurd consequences in some cases, such as in a situation where the debtor would be insured for bankruptcy and such income would not have to be issued to creditors to replace their claims against the debtor. In the light of the above observations, the Union of Towns and Municipalities considers that the petitioner should not present in this form, but first adequately assess the effects that the proposal will bring. [[correctly: requires]] [[10.30 hours]] I only read one of those comments from the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and I have comments from the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, but since the Minister is already impatient, as he has been proving all along, he will want to answer. I think that these comments are absolutely essential and that the Ministry should deal with them, because there really is a moral hazard going on here. I think that if someone is responsible at an adult age by borrowing, then they need to know that his actions, his behavior are supposed to have consequences, and he has to pay back. And if he's not able to pay back for any objective reasons, then, of course, there's supposed to be a debt institution here, there's supposed to be help for these people. But on the other hand, we must not allow that we will have such conditions of debt, which will actually favour the debtor completely, and from debt relief, virtually. this tool becomes an easy tool to circumvent the rules. Therefore, I think that we should take this law very seriously here, and I do not agree with shortening the deadline for discussion, because it is a fundamental matter, a fundamental standard that will have a major impact on thousands, hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic, but not only on debtors, but also on creditors. Please don't forget them. So I thank the Minister in advance for responding to all the comments that have been made here, and for actually all the questions that have already been raised here by the previous speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u24	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We'll continue our meeting this morning. I'll ask you to bear with me, Minister. I'll read your apologies. Today, Mr Václav Klučka apologizes for the whole day for working reasons and today for the whole day for working reasons, Mr Martin Kolovratník apologizes. Before I give you the floor with priority rights, Mr Soukup has a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I do not want to complicate the discussion of this law, I am very glad that you have decided to come forward and answer the questions, which is why I am glad to have the opportunity to say my opinion. Let's ask ourselves the basic question, how does the debtor feel about it? Not a debtor, what a creditor. His rights will be reduced a little bit. I understand that it is such an instrument that relaxes or could release certain social tensions, let's say, but isn't it also a bit of social engineering? And is that appropriate in a situation where there is almost a tragic enforcement of law in our country? For example, there is evidence of this. Soon we'll be talking about one of these laws, let's say it's an advance maintenance law, when we have to save one segment of those debtors, which essentially makes us discriminate against the others. I would say that precisely the debt relief, this law, and I am not saying that in full, but an insensitive approach to the use of these options, it basically deepens the problem of debtors as such and deepens the problem of law enforcement. I'd be happy if you wouldn't let me worry about that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u26	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, even though you haven't spoken, you have spoken. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to respond briefly to these comments. I would like to begin by saying that it can certainly be beneficial to mention here some resumé or even citations of some comment points in the legislative process, but it is only good not to forget two things. On the one hand, the comments in the legislative process are settled, i.e. that even those that remain so-called. not settled, i.e. they were not granted, so at least it is always explained by the petitioner why, i.e. there is a settlement table in which this dialogue is captured, and it would always be worth looking into. In addition, and this is much more important, as part of the process, it is also happening that the proposal is changing depending on the comments, so, for example, when there was a long quote about what is there about the residence occupied by the debtor and when it will be preserved, so following the comments, and in truth not only following the comments, the rule was dropped. There's no such rule, and it's not meant to be, so then it's a little unfair to quote comments on something that's not there anymore. When I sum up the content of these unfinished comments, whether they were here or not quoted, they are largely in the spirit of one thing, and that is that by introducing this proposal, moral hazard arises, because debts are to be paid. I'm surprised that we're having this debate today, that we didn't have it six or seven years ago, actually eight years ago, when right-wing governments even introduced the debt institution and admitted the possibility that somebody could be forgiven 70 percent of his debts. From the fact that the entire debt has to be paid, to the fact that it is enough to pay 30 per cent, this seems to me a significantly greater shift than from 30 per cent to zero. I would have waited, or I was convinced that we had already had this debate, that we had already understood that debts were certainly to be paid, but that, at the same time, if there was such an economic situation with a person, when he was unable to get out of those debts for the rest of his life, that insisting that debts should be paid in full is not inhuman but also economically counterproductive. Because what does that lead to? This actually promotes economic gambling or moral hazard. Because what does that lead to? This leads to a man's necessarily resigning after some time to try to satisfy his creditors. He's in a situation where no matter what he does, only interest will be paid. And at the end of his life, the debt won't be less. No matter what he does, he'll be bigger than he is today. You'd have to be crazy to try to pay as much as you can in a situation like this. And we're watching it. Sooner or later, and mostly after a rather short period of time, they leave the official economy, they become officially completely derelict, i.e. any property is written on someone else, these people work black, receive benefits and simply learn to live in some other, unofficial gray world in which creditors can't. [[10.40 hours]] So the essence of our proposal is not that we would like to promote moral hazard, but rather that we are trying to prevent it by insisting more consistently that people should pay their debts, but to the extent that these people are humanly capable. That's the point of the proposal. The proposal is very strict. Try to imagine for yourself that someone will sell you all your property today, and for the next seven years you will live off the minimum. Everything else you make, you hand over to your creditors. Seven years. In principle, these are two parliamentary periods to make this more understandable. And if anyone sees this as a general apology, as an amnesty, then I don't. This is very cruel and it is more cruel than in most of the surrounding countries. Almost all of them. This also brings us closer to the answer to the second main question that is raised, and that is whether our justice system and our system are ready to handle the burden of debtors. Because the truth is, we have an incredible half a million people in a debt trap today, maybe more, half a million people we know about, or over half a million we know about. And so theoretically, this whole number of people could suddenly enter the debt relief process, ask for debt relief. Two things about that. The first of them, again, as I verified in the regional courts, when the debt was introduced as such and at that time it meant a complete transfer of insolvency law, i.e. out of 5,000 cases of trade defaults, 30,000 insolvency cases were suddenly a year, or a six-fold increase, so at that time no one asked the regional courts if they could handle it. And no one has helped them in any way. We are not just asking, we are counting, we see that they are going against the direction of any increase or the likely increase in new things, but other trends that should compensate us, namely, in the first place, that the number of proposals for debt relief in the current adjustment, i.e. With the 30 percent limit, it's already falling, because simply what's accumulated there, those people who have been waiting for years to propose debt, to file, so they've already gone through the process, and now it's just those who keep falling into it, which is a much smaller number. The second thing is that even with your help - I thank you very much for this - a novel recently passed here, which significantly shifted the burden associated with the administration of debt relief from the court to insolvency administrators, i.e. the insolvency courts are relieved and this new spare capacity allows them to process more cases. Go ahead, and without any analysis, but it happened, that's when it was done, the trade dispute agenda moved a while ago, that's a rather significant agenda, from regional to district courts, so now there are old cases running out. And the judges who have judged this are free in quotation marks, and therefore they have a capacity that they can possibly use for insolvency, where we are also gradually transferring them now, because there are simply not many other agendas left in the regional courts. So these are all things that go against and create some kind of capacitive reserve that will allow a new strain to be essentially managed. Not to mention that, overall, we are counting on a large number of unsuccessful debt reliefs to go away, thanks to you who helped us accept and accepted our proposal, the change in the fact that a lawyer has to file a motion for debt relief, so that it should not be that any uneducated person makes proposals in cases where they cannot or should not be granted. That's what the Supreme Court said about the reminder that was quoted here that people who are not qualified are getting into the process, they don't really understand what it is, and they're not qualified to go through the process. And this change should prevent it. And the last thing I want to say is that the increase is probably going to be much smaller than what it would be if we looked at the number of people who are now in debt traps. For a simple reason, and that's because the process, as I said, is very strict. Just because someone's in a debt trap doesn't mean he's willing to do something about his situation by going through a purgatory like this. A lot of people who are in that debt trap have just learned to live in this, and those who have learned to live in it, those who really live in that gray economy and don't worry about it, so they won't have any reason to worry about it in some seven-year debt relief process, because it's not gonna bring them anything positive. The process is really designed for honest people. To people who are aware that they made a mistake and are ready to pay for that mistake, to work it out. Seven years of their lives are devoted to economically rebooting. I'm afraid there'll be a lot less than how many people are trapped in debt. Well, that's the last of it. I am convinced that to whom or not to be granted a debt relief benefit or something else must not depend on the current capacity of justice. I am convinced that it is the duty of the Ministry of Justice to adapt the capacity of justice to the state's legally-political interests and not vice versa. Of course, an exception would be a situation where it simply would not be possible, but that is certainly not the case. So the Justice Department is ready to cover any possible increased needs. And for the reasons that I explained, we don't know what they are at the moment, and whether they will be at all. If I try to close it down and sum it up... One more thing. Sorry. We are still being accused that the RIA does not contain any calculation of the effect on creditors. We really can't do the math, which we probably deserve the Nobel Prize for Economics if we can figure it out. But we can make an estimate, the estimate is positive, and it's a qualified estimate based on experience abroad. In any of the countries where there is such a form, as I say, mostly considerably more moderate, the possibility of debt relief is not observed significantly reduced payment morale of debtors against the Czech Republic. There's no such thing. Thus, if such a reduced morale is not, it is clear that this difference, that is, whether there is or is no debt, does not affect payment morale. For the reasons I described, that's not weird. [[10.50 hours]] So for creditors this will not have this negative effect and it will have the opposite, I believe, effects positive. First of all, it is that creditors dispose of unenforceable debts, in a way that they will be able to liquidate, in an accounting and tax manner. Today, many creditors lead many executions in vain, burdening the entire system with unnecessary costs of execution processes that cannot lead to the recovery of even a single crown, because simply the situation of the debtor is not such that there should be any more crowns, when I may be the fifth in the order, and those executions lead for the only reason that they cannot write off those claims, and thus get back what they paid in taxes on this income, because for them financially, fiscally it is income. If the borrowers go through with these debts of debt in debt, they'll be able to deal with it fiscally, so they'll be corrected for the injustice when they had income on paper, they'll get the tax, and they'll really get nothing, and they're just worried about it. So this is the first important positive moment - everyone clears books about these claims. And the second positive moment is that those people-- and that's the goal-- who go through it, they're going back to the official economy. If they go back to the official economy, in that official economy, they're gonna buy goods, they're gonna make money, they're gonna pay taxes again. As I was saying the other day, in America, which probably doesn't sound like a completely left-wing country, not only is it a very simple debt relief process, but when you go through debt relief, personal bankruptcy, then there comes a phase where you get the most credit card offers, because for banks, the best client is the one that just went through debt relief. So much for the ending. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u28	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Marek Benda will now appear, and Mrs Jana Černochová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u29	Dear Vice-President, Minister - Ministers, there are only two others - ladies and gentlemen, I listened quite carefully to Minister Pelikán and tried to perceive his argument and, of course, the argument is still valid and I would also sign it, but it is not clear why it should be zero. That's the basic problem! The minister began by making the first major change here years ago by right-wing governments, which allowed debt relief from 100 to 30 percent. I think it was the right change, that there really are people who get into a situation where they can't pay off their entire debt, and that in some cases it can really be innocent, that it's not like it's a deliberate effort to collect so much credit and get so much in debt that I can't pay it back, but that someone just took more than he was capable of, something happened in his life, divorced, lost his job and more and more and more. Then we went down the road, and it's really advantageous for creditors, that if at least part of that amount is repaid and it's either 70 per cent by three years, or 30 per cent by five years, at least part of that amount, at least part of the creditors get it, then it's possible that this person might have become a beneficiary of this personal bankruptcy, that creditors could have said, "I can really write the rest off, I'm cutting the rest off, it's no longer the claim I have - and it ends. But what does the Minister come up with? It comes from this very benevolent state, in my opinion, where only part of my debts is needed to pay off, so suddenly we say: you don't have to pay anything at all. It's a zero. And the only ones who get income from this are insolvency administrators, which I find completely absurd. The only person who will have to pay all the time is the mandatory fee of CZK 1,000 a month, don't take my word for it if it's 1 050, which is paid to insolvency administrators. This means that the proposal brought by this government says: the money to be directed towards creditors for partial debt will be redirected to insolvency administrators - they will be redirected to insolvency administrators! - and, instead of paying at least part of the debts to the creditors, it will be paid on an ongoing basis to the insolvency administrators. And we're pretending that this is something right, fair, that doesn't increase moral hazard and what, on the contrary, is supposed to help the economy. I really, really don't understand. If we took the numbers we have before us - and I don't think it's true that half a million people are really trapped in debt, as the explanatory report claims, virtually. the claim of the Ministry of Justice - if we were to admit that this half million is already so overdebted that they are unable to pay back, and if we took seven years times a thousand crowns a month, then approximately 50 billion is redirected from the repayment of debts to their creditors towards insolvency administrators. And that's the victory that the Justice Department is coming with to help each other dramatically? Or is it lobbying insolvency administrators? Or is it the lobbying of insolvency administrators who came in and said, "Mr. Minister, we don't have enough orders today, do we need to improve in some way?" To me, this really seems extraordinarily absurd that the only person who will be satisfied in that system today will be insolvency administrators. It's something similar to when we had to recover small claims from transport companies before, from debts for waste or similar municipal matters, where creditors almost didn't care, debtors were beaten and the only ones who were satisfied in the system were lawyers representing those parties, whether in the form of lawyers or later executors, and it became incredible... Vice-President is disturbing my newsletter. [[Interview, mr. Philip at the newsstand. - He's sorry.]] Nothing is going on, but I speak mostly to the rapporteur and to the Minister when I speak. And it became an incredible business for the legal services that represented both sides. And now it comes with the idea that this business will also be created from over-indebtedness. The first important point I'm making. If we were talking about the level being reduced from 30% to 15, I think it's still a thesis we can discuss. But in my opinion, at least part of the debt has to be repaid, and it cannot be said that the penalty for the debtor who has been owed will only be that he will pay in this sense in quotes to the civil servant, because the insolvency administrator at that time is nothing other than someone who sees for the state how it is managed, rather than paying the civil servant to keep an eye on him. I can see the huge moral hazard in this. The creditors get nothing, as the Minister says, in fact, the poor debtor is still so badly beaten for seven years, and the only ones who get income out of it are insolvency administrators. Is it right, or isn't it right? I don't think it is. I think the current situation - I say, I'm ready to talk about reducing the level from 30 to some lower number, but it can never be zero. Because I really say creditors, you guys suck, and it's just about making room for insolvency administrators to work. [[11.00 hours]] I also consider the amount of debt to be a huge problem. It is probably repairable when it comes to committee meetings. It's just a real shame that all the proposals from the Justice Minister's workshop come here as relatively just before the election, even though they were promised long and long ago. And the Minister is mad at me today for stopping him with forensic experts and interpreters, because I say, that's not the kind of thing we'd be able to rewrite in two months on the Constitutional Legal Committee. I'm a little worried we can't even rewrite insolvency properly. It's too complicated a bond to just cross out, but maybe we can do it. I certainly would not recommend dramatically shortening the deadlines, because we will have to do this on the floor of the Constitutional Legal Committee, because this is just a populist scream that says: dear debtors, we are prepared to debt you no matter how much you owe. I'll go back to that amount. A thousand times the minimum of life. In addition to the fact that the minimum of living can also change over time, the amount may increase even more. And so it's 2.2 million. Do we really consider that a moral debt that someone has taken and is not to pay a penny of it? It is I, indeed, two million, and I do not think that as a lifelong, almost lifelong MP I am poorly paid. But two million really isn't a small amount for most of the population. I would understand if we were talking about the debt I took, which the ordinary citizen took to buy a new wall, a new car, something similar to 200,000, maybe up to 300,000, that it's still legitimate to have a discussion about whether the debt is supposed to be this forceful character. And I've been saying all along, there's no way I think it should be a real loser. I always think something should come back to those creditors. But 2.2 million? Do we consider that a normal debt that normally takes place? Especially in a situation where we know well that even today in those proposals for debt relief, virtually. Personal bankruptcy often occurs when the debt increases just before bankruptcy is due to occur. And we saw it in the legal services, especially those in the legal services of illegals, where lawyers didn't provide it, but where all sorts of strange offices provided it, that they first took twenty, twenty, twenty-five, sometimes seventy-five thousand, they said, "Take it easy, there's no problem, you can go up to that limit." They were the ones who profited, and then they said, "Well, unfortunately, it's not possible to pay everything, we got our 75 grand and 30 of the rest will be paid. And now we're going to say 2.2 million is going to pay zero? And we're gonna be here in two or three years, when we stand here, we're gonna be so surprised that all sorts of groups have come to call them well, you owe 400, and you can't pay back, you can borrow half a million, or one and a half million to 2.2, and we're gonna make you a great proposal for debt relief. I know the court can, of course, theoretically stop it, creditors can theoretically stop it. I know these protective mechanisms are there. But we really know how they work, that it's far from that simple. Of course, the court often doesn't know. Of course, those creditors often do not know. So this is the road? The amount seems completely absurd to me. Debt to zero seems completely absurd and really risking an extraordinary moral hazard in the future. The Minister mentioned here the fact that we are in one of the previous amendments to the Civil Code, respectively. The insolvency law said that in these cases they had to be represented by a lawyer. Well, with all due respect to the state of attorney - and I'm a barrister, so it's kind of my condition - to think that, in the number of lawyers in the Czech Republic, it creates some fundamental barrier and fundamental protection against being filed incompetent proposals, or even to avoid submitting these proposals that I mentioned here, essentially fraudulently, I only took on other debts to get... I consider myself unruly optimism by the Minister. Unorganized optimism. And I think we both know that there's a vast majority of honest people in law enforcement, but that, like every profession that's free and uncontrolled, there are people who aren't completely honest and who like to present anything if they have any profit. So to think that it would prevent by saying a compulsory lawsuit in this case, it would prevent the filing of incompetent proposals, virtually. I also consider the circumvention of the law to be unmanaged optimism. I'd probably end up... Although the Minister's assurance that the capacity of justice will adapt to the new bill, he unfortunately does not know what to expect, so he does not know where to strengthen the capacity of justice, which I also heard in the previous speech, seems to me a little "we will strengthen it when the trouble begins." If I were to rely on what's being presented, we'd have half a million by the government. I don't think it's so bad that there's a whole bunch of people out there who could, of course, pay back, but they don't want to pay back for different reasons. For various reasons, they don't want to pay back. Because it's often quite simple for that gray economy to earn more or less black and just say, well, the debts that stay behind me, I don't give a shit about them. Of course, it's gonna be a big problem for these people when they get caught up. But many people today live from day to day and think only about whether to buy plasma TV the next day or how much to have beers - or how to go to the theater so I wouldn't just be negative. And these people don't think about paying it back, and they don't really care that it's pushing ahead. They don't even care that they get interest and other things. But if I were to assume that this is the right number for the ministerial number of half a million, and I assumed that maybe only half of it is going to come with the big loser's vision, then I have roughly 25 of it - and again I would ask not to be taken at the word, but about 25,000 personal bankruptcy is going on every year, so I'm going to be ten times that. So I'm at ten times, and I'd say that maybe more closely guarded, and given what I've been trying to suggest here, how we're going to continue to cheat on this, those courts should, on the contrary, be more stringent to assess the zero. So to say, the Justice Department is obliged to secure capacity options, and if you approve, I'll deliver the judges there, but if it comes up next year, it's a nice thesis, but if it really happens... Even if there were a triple, if I were to be very skeptical, three-fold proposal for personal bankruptcy from 25 to 75 or 100 thousand, which could lead to a four-five-year period of debt, let's say we're still in a situation where today's insolvency judges can't handle it. And I don't know if the Minister has prepared in his pockets - something has been whispering around the Supreme Court, how many lawyers you and President Šámal have prepared from practice that can come - but I don't know if the Minister has prepared in his pockets another hundred judges in insolvency courts. [[11.10 hours]] So I think there's just a little bit of a problem here too, and I think it's very unreasonable, which is why I don't want the bill. I feel like we're supposed to get back to him in the next term. Today's 30% makes it possible for people to go into debt. If we're gonna agree it's supposed to be some lower number, not 30, but 15, I'm ready to have this discussion, but I don't think it's supposed to be a zero at all. That just zero is really naughty and that at the same time it's immoral to pay only to insolvency administrators, and that was the only ones who made a profit out of it. And that it is just a promise that the government has actually given and says: we will allow all of you who are in debt to be in debt. It won't happen until the end of the term because it won't show up in practice. It's always the easiest way to bring it so it doesn't start to apply until after the election, and it turns out it works or it doesn't work. It will prove that even in this practice it will not work completely, because on the one hand, judges who would be able to judge it will be missing, that means there will be a great delay, there will be a great delay on the part of the judicial decision-making process, then those people will find that although creditors zero, but the insolvency administrator per month a thousand crowns, that means they have to pay something and someone who doesn't actually deserve it. This means many who have fled to that grey economy and have no interest in paying back anything and have no interest in admitting their income and having no interest in living off the minimum of life, say: well, let's not go there either, why should we pay those seven years? So I think, even in the end, it turns out that it's far from helping as many people as the government's original promises - we're going to debt you all. But I would ask very much to consider whether the moral hazard of going to zero - and I have repeatedly said that I think it is right that it is no longer possible to pay back, and it is right for those creditors to pay back only some sums and both parties to cross it out. I mean, we all know it that way in our lives. Well, at least give me something when I borrow, there's nothing I can do, I'll just write off some loans. But I'm going to have a hard time talking to someone I lent a hundred crowns and he said to me, "I'm not giving you back a penny and everything's fine." It's right for everyone to cross it out, it's not right for anyone to be a zero. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u30	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. With a point of fact, Mr Karel Fiedler is registered, and then you will be given priority rights, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u31	It is at the end of the term and we are still learning in the House. I just found out that when a colleague named Marek Benda says he's done, it might be a while longer. But that's just to lighten up. I will respond to what has been said, his arguments and what I said a while ago, or in my earlier performance with a factual remark. It's because there are so many "buts" - and I'm going back to thinking that we should sort out the executions first and then proceed to those insolvencys. Now I don't know what's already been done in that regime, whether or not a motion has already been filed. I'm making a motion to re-work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u32	Thank you. This proposal has already been made here in the debate, but I will attribute you to the appellant. And now with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u33	Thank you. I would like to respond briefly to three comments or topics of my honourable colleague. I must say that I appreciate that we are having a real debate here today on the content of this proposal for once. I like that. The first concerns the total limit of a thousand times the minimum of life as the maximum amount of debt that can be entered into the process. Honestly, if I had my way, he would... [[Several Members are having fun out loud.]] Now I'm distracted, Mr. Benda. If I had my way, there wouldn't even be this line. Because it's about that, and it's very important, I don't know a debtor who owes as much as he borrowed. So it's not a line, as the MP said I borrowed $2 million, and now I won't have to pay it back. No way! In fact, I certainly do, at least at the beginning of the parliamentary term, I do not know at the end, but almost none of those people who are in that situation would be loaned 2 million. You must have some creditors who are willing to lend you $2 million first, and everyone will change their minds. So what we see - and believe us in this, we actually encounter these cases in our routine - are the people who borrowed what you say at the beginning. They borrowed it on the living room wall, or whatever it's called, what people put in the living room, some still, 100 grand, or the kitchen of 150,000, for example, or some bullshit. There are also people who have been inconsiderate, but simply those total debts in terms of how much money they actually drained someone, that's 100 to 200,000, 50 to 200,000. Everything else is interest, interest interest, fees, costs, penalties for early non-payment, etc. It means, it's just that when things get out of hand and stop paying back in time, all of a sudden it starts to grow exponentially, it's going to rocket up. And all the boundaries that we can set -- and that's why I don't want them there -- all the boundaries that we can set, it's going to fly through like... And today it's going to exceed 50 percent of my ability to pay back, and tomorrow it's going to be 30 and 10 for the next month, as it is for the exponential curve. It's like you're multiplying rabbits. Of course, it's easy to argue -- well, why don't we take the amount of the principal, that is, what this guy actually borrowed, and take some percentage of it or some ceiling in this. Well, if we can find it safely backwards, yes, but we can see in the case reports of those people, those falling into a debt trap, that there will be at least once and most times so-called. Recrediting, when these people are gradually getting away from the most serious borrowers or creditors to the least serious ones, and at each of these levels, it occurs that what was previously interest on accessories becomes certain, because the contract is already formulated so that it lends it some amount, but it doesn't lend it to him that he could actually borrow it and he could buy something for it, but it lends it to him in the sense that it will pay the claims of the previous creditors, the previous wave of creditors, and usually even on the lower floors, with even even a larger amount written there, a significantly larger amount than what the new creditor will actually pay, that the first big interest, often 100%, is hidden in the so-called. I'm sure. It will be written: I lent a million today, and he actually paid the creditors, often still connected to the new creditor himself, like half a million to the debt, which at the beginning was a hundred thousand. [[11.20 hours]] So that's how the real world works, and that's why we can't do what sounds logical otherwise. And that's why the ceiling is there. Like I said, I wish I didn't have it there at all, but it's so high up there because it's not the ceiling of money someone borrowed. That's the ceiling of where those debts have grown in purely mathematical and accounting exercises. That's what the other thing has to do with it, and that's why we prefer not to talk about a reduction from 30 to 10 percent, like they do in Austria today. Indeed, it is the last country, or the only country other than the Czech Republic in all of Europe, which has a percentage limit. Because the percentage limits for this reason are always unfair, that is, because what the percentage is calculated from is not what the person has ever borrowed. That's one thing. And the second, very important thing, the percentage limit, and that's the Czech experience, and that's the Austrian experience, it has a perverse effect. The debt relief isn't built on you paying 30 percent today, and we're gonna erase the rest. It's already been built today that you have to pay as much as you can. And if it's at least 30 percent, we'll erase the rest. But once you set a line like that, she'll inevitably become a line not minimal, but firm in that practice. That means you're gonna be looking hard for a guy who's gonna pay 32 percent. Everyone happens to make 30 bucks. And everyone's happy with it. That's what the Supreme Court was so nice about in the comments. He said, if you cancel the line, it'll eventually lead to the fact that the courts are really going to start reviewing whether it's honest, and the creditors. Yes, that's the target. We really want this to be reviewed, if it's honest, because it's not being reviewed today. Today, everyone is really content, including those insolvency administrators, with 30 percent being paid. Done. The pension agreement that's allowed will still apply. That means that the guy actually makes money in the gray economy, the money's being sent to his uncle, the uncle sends exactly enough of them to make it 30 percent. And everyone's happy. And I don't think that's the right system. This is a moral hazard. So no border means zero boundaries. No border means rehab the other condition, and that's - they'll pay for everything they can. And if a judge seriously examines the honesty of the intention, he cannot find an honest intention if there are newly lent debts just before, that is quite clear, and he should have great doubts when it comes to the reward of the insolvency administrator and not even the extra crown. Because it's extraordinarily weird that a person makes so much that they only hit the minimum of life plus the reward of an insolvency administrator. That brings me to the last question. I must say that it would not have occurred to me that I would sometimes be described as a vector of the lobbyism of insolvency administrators, because it is not exactly among the groups of residents who would like me, especially since I broke the wheel again thanks to you, which led to some great insolvency administrators thus greatly enriching themselves, and at some point other steps related to what we are about to do are trying to make sure that insolvency administrators also do something for the money. [[Minister smiled]] That means, we just want it not to be so that they just mechanically control from the table, if the 30 percent is paid, but we want the debtor to work with it, and the instruments we have at our disposal, that is, by our kind of decrees, by which we can regulate the content of the insolvency administrator's activities, we are leading them to do so. And I can assure you, they don't like me. Again, the only reason why there is the rule that at least the costs of the insolvency administrator have to be paid is because I wasn't brave enough not to put these costs there as mandatory, because in Germany even today they did this last step, and today it is possible to go through debt even without paying the costs of the insolvency administrator. I just wasn't that brave. It seemed too radical to me, so I'm the only one who's left this condition. Please do not seek to enrich the insolvency administrator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u34	Thank you, too. Now, with Mr Benda's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u35	Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister - the last minister is here now. First of all, I'm not sure, Mr Vice-President, if there should be anyone else sitting here for the government under the resolution... [[Minister Pelikán - remark off microphone.]] I know, I'm not questioning, I know you don't have a parliamentary mandate, I'm not questioning that you're a minister, but at the moment you're sitting here as a petitioner, not as a representative of the government. But please just have the Vice-President check with the resolution. [[Mrs Cernochová puts something on the speaker's counter.]] I wanted to respond really now to what was said from the Minister's mouth. One thing. I feel a little offended personally that the Minister here will tell me that for the first time I am having fun in a matter of fact, okay, but that, exceptionally, I am talking on a subject. [[Minister off microphone]] Well, I think you all know me, and you haven't seen me read a book here, I've never acted in this House that I wouldn't talk about it. If the Minister didn't like it in the past that I talked a little bit longer about the experts and that I quoted from the letter, it was only because I tried to show that the entire professional public was so terrified of his proposal that we couldn't discuss it because we had to rewrite it. Well, that's a little personal protection. I always try to speak to the point within this House. And the second point about what was said by the Minister, I think I'm still going to sign up for the debate, because it would be a lot more. To say that thirty is a bizarre moral hazard, and that's why we're going to zero, because those courts have to examine it more carefully, I just find it untrue especially in the situation where we're there, or when the Ministry keeps the thirty. It's been a moral hazard in the past, and now it's stopped being a moral hazard and we're going to zero. That really doesn't seem like a fair argument to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u36	Thank you. Now, Mrs Černochová, Mrs Golasowská will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u37	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I would like to ask if you have had the legislation checked to see if we are acting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u38	I didn't. On the other hand, it is not the first time that there is only a minister as a translator, and I perceived that this is a certain part that is respected by the House. That means, if you want, I'll have it checked with the legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u39	Yes, let it be checked by legislation, because in this respect resolution number 31 of the Chamber of Deputies of the 3rd meeting of July 23, 1996 is quite clear. The Chamber of Deputies states that (a) all members of the Government will attend the opening meeting The Chamber of Deputies until the approval of its programme and the whole discussion of the agenda item, which is the request of the Government of the Czech Republic to express confidence. We are not in this process of negotiations. Secondly, the Prime Minister or his authorized member of the Government will attend the entire meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, the relevant members of the government will participate in the discussion of the individual items of the programme under their responsibility. That is why the Minister sits here in this front bench and does not sit in that back bench, Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Bartoška. Fourthly, to the same extent, except in the case referred to in point 1, the members of the Government shall attend all other meetings of the Chamber of Deputies held during this parliamentary term. So I really ask that this question be settled now if we can act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u40	I'm convinced we can act, but I'll have it checked with legislation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u41	I would therefore ask you to really address the legislation. I think the legislation is sitting here, so hopefully it can react to that now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u42	I don't think it's a contradiction, we can continue the negotiations, and I'll get the answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u43	Okay, thank you. So I would like to ask that Minister Pelikán here speak so flamingly about how all the proposals read here by colleague Pekarová or about which I, too, spoke at the previous meeting, were dealt with in the way they were dealt with. They didn't. Most of them haven't been dealt with. Only your colleagues and colleagues to know how many comments have been made on this bill and how the various departments have dealt with them. [[To emphasize his words, he points to a number of papers in the hall.]] There are more contradictions there than acceptance. So in this respect, the minister here wasn't quite telling us the truth. I think that when I read you the different contradictions here, you'll know that the standard really isn't good and that the doubts from other authorities, the central authorities of the state administration, persist. For example, the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, where one amendment point 16 required the replacement of the number ten in paragraph 4 with a justification: the debt relief as a form of bailout is substantially affecting the sphere of property rights of creditors, often non-business individuals, because it is they who are subject to the economic burden of exempting the debtor from the fulfilment of the rest of the liabilities and their claims become unenforceable after a successful debt relief in relation to the debtor. In view of the necessary adequate protection of the property rights of these entities, a period of seven years shall appear... I would ask you, Mr Vice-President, to ask the Minister not to yell at me here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u44	I haven't noticed the Minister yelling at you, but if that's the case, Minister, I'm calling you, please don't yell at the lady. As well as any colleague and colleague from the O.R. to not yell at you and you had room for your speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u45	So one more time. In view of the necessary adequate protection of the property rights of those entities, the seven-year period for re-entry into the debt-debt process appears to be disproportionately short. We believe that the ten-year period is more appropriate as it reflects the seriousness of the waiver of the creditor's right to claim his property right. This period also better reflects the educational sense of the debt-to-debt process for the debtor. This reminder of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic is essential. Filled in bold. Method of settlement, bold again. Controversy, not accepted. Debt is, among other things, monitored to free the debtor from the insolvency situation through transparent economic activity rather than concealing its income from creditors and carrying out economic activities within the so-called grey economy. This objective is achieved by the pledge of debt in the case of partial satisfaction of creditors, or by efforts for such satisfaction. The debt relief thus results in a partial satisfaction of creditors, which in a number of cases is more advantageous for creditors than staying in the pre-insolvency phase and also means an economic benefit for the State under the social and tax system associated with restarting transparent economic activity by the debtor. At the same time, the debt relief and the benefit of the debtor is honest but economically unsuccessful. We consider a period of seven years of re-entry into debt after the debtor has been exempted to be a reasonable period of time. This deadline must be seen throughout the whole of the purpose of the debt relief, in which the interests of the debtor, creditors are combined, and even those may not be as straightforward as the comments made by the State and its macroeconomic situation. Even this has not been settled from the Office of the Government. It was about article one. To the amendment point 42, we request to delete letter (d) in § 412a. Justification of the Office of the Government: In our opinion, the provision in question undermines the fundamental legal principle that contracts are to be respected and also increases the risk of demotivating debtors to repay their commitments. The significant abstract obligation of the debtor to make all the efforts that can be reasonably required by him to fully satisfy the claims of its creditors contained in Section 412 (1) (h) cannot be seen as a sufficient guarantee of its real effort to repay the debts. This comment is essential for the Office of the Government, once again filled in in bold. Opinion of the Ministry of Justice: conflict, not accepted. The proposed rule corresponds to the purpose of the debt relief, that is to grant protection to an honest but economically unsuccessful debtor. The debtor is obliged, after approval of the debt waiver, to pay to the unsecured creditors the sum of its income under Section 398 (5) of the Insolvency Act and to fulfil the obligations under Section 412 of the Insolvency Act. Cumulation of responsibilities according to 1 and 2 is not foreseen by current legislation. The breach of obligations, in particular obligations under § 412, may lead to the cancellation of repayment debt at any stage of the payment schedule. Supervision of compliance shall be exercised by the insolvency administrator and the insolvency court. For these reasons, it cannot be concluded that the proposed adjustment motivates the debtor to default. Then there are a number of comments from the Ministry of Agriculture, a number of comments and unfinished comments, i.e. a continuing contradiction with individual opinions of the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Regional Development is also not satisfied with all acceptances, or there are many things that have not been accepted. Here I would like to stop by the Ministry of Industry and Trade, where again they point to the seven and ten years that this comment is essential to them. On the contrary, in order not to just criticize the Ministry of Justice, some things have been explained. So, for example, a comment from the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic on material in general: We fundamentally disagree... The original reminder. We fundamentally disagree with the procedure of the Ministry of Justice, which puts forward an amendment to the insolvency law before the inter-ministerial review procedure, while another government amendment to the insolvency law has not yet passed a second reading in the Chamber of Deputies. The high number of amendments to the insolvency law has a significant negative effect on legal certainty for both debtors and creditors. This comment was essential for the Office of the Government, but the Ministry of Justice explained this point with the Office of the Government and it states here that the scope and purpose of the proposal do not overlap with the draft law amending the insolvency law and some other laws currently being discussed by the Chamber of Deputies. The proposal for a solution to a substantively coherent and separable issue in a separate bill does not undermine the principle of legal certainty. I don't know if we can all relate to this position here, but in any case, it is in the table mentioned here by the Minister of Justice Pelikán. [[11.40 hours]] Another series of comments again from the Office of the Government, this time from the KOM, from the Ministry of the Interior. Some things explained, some accepted, some not accepted, or it is written here: accepted otherwise. Which I don't know what it means. For example, the Ministry of the Interior asked for an explanation of how the creditor's position is secured in the event that the debtor does not have assets that he would issue to the property, or only one whose cash would not have reached an amount exceeding CZK 100,000. In view of the fact that the proposal envisages the removal of the obligation to satisfy creditors' claims of at least 30 per cent and sets out the possibility to meet the debt relief in accordance with § 412a para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) it is clear that this method of dedebting the creditor puts them at a disadvantage and puts them at risk that their claims are not even partially satisfied in a relevant way. This comment was considered essential by the Ministry of Interior. We considered it essential. That is why my colleague Marek Benda spoke of this. This has also been explained in a rather special way. The aim of the bill is to remove barriers to debt relief for a wider range of honest debtors - honest debtors, do you feel the phrase? Honest debtors - this really must have been written by a great intellectual. With the key attribute of the proposed adjustment, the abolition of the minimum set level of satisfaction of unsecured creditors is precisely the key attribute of the proposed adjustment. The counterweight of the debt write-off of honest borrowers consists mainly in extending the means of de-debting to the mandatory combination of the payment schedule under the current currencyisation of the assets, maintaining at least 30% of the threshold for debtors with a total amount of debt above CZK 2.2 million and maintaining all claims secured by creditors under the current legislation. Furthermore, the explanation states that the petitioner does not consider... Did the Minister disappear again? [[He's looking at the government bench.]] Did the Minister disappear again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u46	I beg your pardon?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u47	A moment ago, Minister Stropnický was here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u48	I have the opinion of legislation and it speaks that the presence of even one minister, even in the position of the petitioner, is sufficient to discuss and negotiate the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u49	Thank you. The plaintiff does not consider the cashing of the debtor's assets to be justified in the event that the return on such a settlement would not appear to cover the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, since in such cases you would need to partially satisfy creditors' claims beyond the scope of the repayment schedule anyway. Thus, such a measure does not lead to the disadvantage of creditors, considers the Ministry of Justice. In addition, the Ministry of Interior asked: For the institute of interruption of the debt process, instead of important reasons, we require clear and explicit determination of the facts on the basis of which the insolvency court will be able to decide on the interruption. A vague and vague wording could lead to unnecessary and creditor-inhibiting debt extensions. Again, this comment was considered essential by the Ministry of the Interior. And how did the Justice Department explain it to her? Since the definition of the concept - I quote - "important reasons' has been deliberately abandoned and its interpretation is left to the practice of judicature when taking into account the relevant facts of the case. I mean, applying the law to the court. Typically, it should be particularly cases of temporary incapacity, including cases of hospitalization. An account of the relevant facts would necessarily be pucuistic and, in fact, only demonstrational in order to prevent them from being fully affected. The explanation will be added to the explanatory memorandum. - I don't know if it happened or not, but I haven't noticed any supplement from the system we have on the House of Deputies website. With regard to other comments from the Ministry of the Interior, and there are indeed a number of such comments, the Ministry again requested to point 40 to § 412 para. Article 4 (1) (a) h): We consider the new obligation to make every effort to fully satisfy the creditors' claims that can be claimed by the debtor to be merely a declaration, writes the Ministry of the Interior. Proving a breach of this obligation will be very difficult and, therefore, it can be doubted that the debt waiver and subsequent bankruptcy declaration will be abolished on the basis of it. We recommend at least to define the evaluation criteria for the implementation, or not to make all efforts. The Ministry of Justice did not accept this comment by the Ministry of the Interior because, as it says here, the petitioner considers that the interpretation of indefinite legal terms is an immanent part of the court's decision-making activity, taking into account the facts of the case. So I don't know where else, except in a standard like this, it should be given some kind of tax statement, if we want to show some legal certainty again for those people who are on one side or on the other side, whether they are creditors or debtors. Furthermore, in paragraph 47, this is § 414 para. 1, here the Ministry of the Interior recommended to the petitioner to modify the wording of the amended § 414 para. 1. In our opinion, the insolvency court should not decide on the fulfilment of the debt waiver if the debtor fails to fulfil all obligations properly and in due time according to the approved method of debt relief, and therefore we consider the indication of both of these conditions for the decision to exempt the debtor from payment of the claims to be redundant. Once again, the position of the Ministry of Justice is not accepted. [[Interior]] According to them, the proposed adjustment follows an adjustment to the existing one. If there is no cancellation of the approved debt relief for non-compliance with the essential obligations, the insolvency court shall take note of the fulfilment of the debt waiver. However, in view of the extension of the availability of the debt institution, the petitioner considers it appropriate to accentuate that the exemption from payment of claims does not belong to the debtor in cases where it could not be considered legitimate. That is to say, in cases where the debtor did not fulfil his obligations without material obligations. [[11.50 hours]] Article I, point 16 - this is § 395 para. 3. The Ministry of the Interior here recommends, in a footnote, to specify the reference to another legislation invoked by the provision. Again, it was not accepted. The RIA was mentioned by Minister Pelikán that it was settled. They were de facto referring to it, or had, two institutions of doubt. For one thing, the Union of Towns and Municipalities, a colleague before me, and the Ministry of Finance also referred to RIA, which requested to add to the material all the expenses incurred by the adoption of the proposal so that it was clear that they would be covered within the budget appropriations and the existing personnel security of the chapter of the Ministry of Justice. It is a pity that the Minister of Finance is not here, because I think it is also a question that we should ask the Minister of Finance how this will be secured. From the point of view of the Ministry of Justice, this request has been accepted as it stands here, and it is said that the explanatory memorandum will be supplemented in the sense of the comment. Otherwise, the cost requirement was a reminder to the Ministry of Finance. Again, a reminder from the Ministry of Finance. In our opinion, the final report from the evaluation of the effects of RIA regulation, which the Minister has already mentioned, does not take sufficient account of the impact on the activities of the courts. In our opinion, the fact that the mere effort to fulfil obligations in insolvency proceedings is sufficient for debt relief will place significantly greater demands on the assessment of reckless approach and careless procedure - see for example. explanatory note to paragraphs 14 to 18. I quote: "It is proposed that the court extend the scope of examination also to the life course of the debtor. " End of quote. This may lead to a greater burden on the courts and the extension of proceedings or, on the other hand, a more formal assessment of the conditions for debt relief. What I have read to you now was once again an essential reminder for the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice dealt with it as follows: The final report from the regulatory impact assessment will be supplemented by a more detailed consideration of the impact on the activities of insolvency courts. Although some of the proposed conditions may lead to an increase in the burden of insolvency courts, it is at the same time that greater importance and therefore more burden will be placed on insolvency administrators, namely in favour of insolvency courts. The final report from the regulatory impact assessment will be supplemented by a more detailed identification of risks in relation to unsecured creditors. Even if, in individual cases, the satisfaction of creditors' claims may be lower than under existing legislation, the opposite is assumed from a macroeconomic point of view. Moreover, the factual impossibility of fulfilling the individually recovered claim, i.e. the claim in the execution procedure, does not reduce the performance in favour of the creditor even in the case of collective proceedings under the conditions foreseen in the proposal. This was the opinion of the Ministry of Justice on the comment of the Ministry of Finance, which requested that the final report on the impact assessment of RIA regulation should identify sufficiently the possible negative effects on the market environment and the risks associated with it, in particular the effects on creditors. While this proposal makes debt relief available as a form of resolution of bankruptcy to a larger group of debtors, the Ministry of Finance writes, but at the expense of satisfaction of creditors. Within the meaning of Section 412a, the debt relief will be met by a maximum of seven years, irrespective of the degree of satisfaction of unsecured creditors. In practice, this may mean that the claims of unsecured creditors will not be satisfied at all in a number of cases. In order to achieve debt relief in the future, it will be sufficient that the debt relief is not cancelled for seven years, i.e. It is sufficient for the debtor to pay the final expenses and remuneration of the insolvency administrator, the management costs of the assets and the costs associated with the write-up of the debt application. This comment was essential for the Ministry of Finance. Similarly, as a fundamental reminder of the Ministry of Finance, the question was whether the extension of debt relief options would result in greater recklessness in the conclusion of commitments, in particular for low-income groups which are without regular income or their total income would be at the limit of the minimum of living. This was explained by the Ministry of Finance with the Ministry of Justice and the perception of the debt institution as a benefit to the debtor, who is honest but economically unsuccessful, so-called. the second chance principle remains the proposal, including the proposed conditions of entry and exit from debt relief, preserved. Another fundamental comment from the Ministry of Finance was that the three-year deadline for which the dishonest intention of the debtor to submit a previous debt waiver proposal will be a disqualifying reason for assessing the possibility of a debt waiver, the Ministry of Finance considers that it is too short. The benefit of the possibility of debt relief under significantly more liberal conditions in terms of the amount paid should be granted only after a significantly longer period of time to those to whom the dishonest intention has already been demonstrated. The Ministry of Finance has been proposing seven years, as well as in case of repeated debt relief. This comment was crucial to the Ministry of Finance and there was probably some meeting between the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Justice, because here in this table it says that it was not accepted, but that the comment was requalified by the Ministry of Finance to recommend. It is obvious that when ministers of justice and finance are from one movement or from one side, some comments that were unacceptable can suddenly be accepted. It further states that in these cases another purpose is being monitored. The impossibility of repeated debt relief after less than seven years is based on the assumption that so-called a second chance, once again a favor for an honest but economically unsuccessful debtor, should be able to make use of the debtor only once, therefore a second chance. Repeated debt should be an exception. A period of seven years is therefore laid down for the new application for the authorisation of debt relief. However, limiting the debtor to only one option seems disproportionately harsh, and the economic failure of an honest borrower can occur repeatedly. In the latter case, it is a provision which has a penalty proposal - rejection of the application in the case of dishonesty of the debtor. However, the economic situation of the debtor remains unchanged in this case. The three-year period appears adequate for the purpose pursued. It also corresponds to foreign legislation, namely German regulation. The Ministry of Agriculture - again a number of comments. Some comments are similar to those of the Office of the Government or the Ministry of Finance. Their position on the proposal in general, i.e. the opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, supported by the fact that this comment is essential again, so I generally think that you should hear it, because it is one of the ministries that seems to be unrelated to an agenda that relates to insolvency, but it is only seemingly because, of course, it can also apply to our farmers. [[12.00 hours]] The expected date of entry into force of the proposal submitted shall be 1 January 2018. The insolvency law is an important procedural regulation that potentially affects a large circle of addressees. Moreover, the proposed changes need to be assessed as essential. In this case, sufficient time for a consistent assessment of the proposed legislation in all its context should be a matter of course. In this context, it is not clear why the biller has shortened the deadline for making comments in the framework of the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, in addition to the situation where the proposal is submitted outside the legislative work plan - so this is not standard for such a major standard - outside the government's legislative work plan, and therefore the petitioner is not bound by any binding deadline. [[with emphasis]] The Commission therefore considers that there is no justification for the limitation of the deadline for the notification of comments and that the agreement of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is not justified. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 of the Government's legislative rules. We require this consent to be documented, possibly to repeat inter-ministerial commentary proceedings in accordance with the legislative rules of the Government of the Czech Republic. This comment is essential for the Ministry of Agriculture. The answer from the Ministry of Justice states that this has been explained in accordance with Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 of the Government's legislative rules was asked by the President of the Government's Legislative Council to shorten the comments to 10 working days. - You know, that's a general trend here in this House during the election period, when everything's getting shorter. Apparently, as ministers of this government, you didn't have enough time in those 3.5 years, which doesn't concern Minister Pelikán, but other ministers, when these standards, standards so serious for the whole of society, are being submitted at the last minute, and then we see that here, what the bill proposal, the proposal to shorten the deadline. It's really not okay. You also know how complex the legislative process is, then some amendments are being loaded, and then in the finals there are standards here every month, standards that we have approved, which have already been published in the Collection, so they are subsequently changed and changed. And we are constantly slamming our rule of law with amendments because you are unable to prepare these legislative standards properly. Now I don't know if here, apart from the motion for a re-evaluation, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, if there was a motion to dismiss at first reading. If he hasn't fallen, I'm making this proposal. At the same time, I also join the proposal of my previous speakers to propose a return to the recast.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u50	Both proposals were made, both to reject and return. A colleague of Plíšek gave them and a colleague Fiedler joined the motion for rejection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u51	Thank you. So I'm joining you, too. By letter of 4 October 2016, the President of the Legislative Council of the Government complied with this request. Following this, the shortening of the comment procedure was justified by reference to this letter, the reference number of the proceedings in the eKLEP electronic library. Furthermore, the proposal was drawn up in cooperation with representatives of the courts, legal practice and the academic community. It was also consulted on the bodies concerned. Furthermore, the Ministry of Agriculture makes comments which, according to them, are essential again, as regards point 5 of Section 192 (2) of the Guidelines. 4. In the event of a denial of an outstanding claim by the debtor, the creditor's action is directed only against the debtor, which is usually a person without legal training, with a low level of legal awareness which will not have legal representation in the course of insolvency proceedings. This will result in an unequal position of the debtor in an inclusive dispute. We believe, writes the Ministry of Agriculture, that the creditor's action should also be directed against the insolvency administrator. And this comment was crucial to the Ministry of Agriculture. The Ministry of Justice evidently accepted it differently, for it says here that the proposed provision of Paragraph 192 (2) was proposed to comment on other points of reference and after consultations. 4 released without replacement. However, what was not accepted and was not otherwise settled concerns paragraph 14 of § 395 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) where the Ministry of Agriculture writes: We believe that the list of claims to be taken into account when rejecting the application for the authorisation of debt relief should also include maintenance by law. This comment is essential for the Ministry of Agriculture. I'm sorry that Minister Marksová is not sitting here, which I would like to ask how they expressed their views on this from the point of view of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. [[In addition to Minister of Justice Pelikán, only Minister of Defence Stropnický and Minister of Human Rights Chvojka are present in the hall.]] And this was not accepted by the Justice Department. There's a contradiction. And with reason: The impossibility of fulfilling the entire amount of maintenance by law should not be an obstacle to the debtor's ability to repay. If the amount of the instalments is not sufficient to satisfy all claims for property assets, the claim for maintenance by law is privileged - it is a proposal of § 398 para. 4; the debtor cannot be exempted from maintenance claims by law - draft § 416. These rules constitute sufficient protection of the creditor with claims for maintenance by law. - So there's a conflict between two resorts, respectively. maybe three resorts, because we don't know if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has taken a similar position on this. With regard to other matters which the Ministry of Agriculture required to add to the material, the Ministry of Agriculture again wanted, with a fundamental reminder, according to what is mentioned in Section 398 para. The debtor shall not be obliged to issue the assets for the purpose of monetisation in accordance with paragraph 6 of this Article. 3, if the debt report indicates that the proceeds of the transfer would not exceed CZK 100,000. The Ministry of Agriculture notes: we agree to retain the debtor's personal property up to a certain amount. We assume that this property will consist of items of a personal nature with a low nominal value. It is not clear from the text of the proposal how the debtor's assets will be valued in practice and thus demonstrate whether or not it has a higher value, respectively. less than CZK 100,000. For this reason, the Ministry of Agriculture requested a supplement to the material. Here, this was only partially accepted by the Justice Department. In its opinion, the Ministry of Justice stated that the valuation of assets in the property of the debtor continues to take place in accordance with the existing law of the insolvency law, in particular § 219. In order to increase the transparency of the valuation of assets and to provide supporting documents for the decision of the court on the proportionality of the valuation, the provisions of Paragraph 398 (1) were added. In the case of a debt relief report, the insolvency administrator shall have the right to justify the valuation of the individual items made in the list of assets. The reasoned report will be supplemented in terms of the content of the comments, which I did not see again in the system, but may subsequently be explained by the Minister. The Ministry of Agriculture also wanted and proposed to add a transitional provision to the material so that under certain circumstances the decision could be repealed... [[The speaker is silent. Minister Pelikán talks to Mr Kováčik at the news table.]] ... a decision to approve debt relief issued before the effect of this amendment of the Act and at the same time to decide to approve debt relief under the new legislation. The Ministry of Agriculture justifies this fundamental remark: This proposal is based on a situation where the debtor would comply with the legislation in force so far, e.g. after five years, e.g. only 25 per cent of the value of unsecured creditors' claims. Debt relief wouldn't be...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u52	I understand, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask for a lower level of noise so that Mrs Černochová can finish her speech in peace and in a dignified environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So after five years, for example, only 25 percent of the value of unsecured creditors' claims, the debt relief would not be met and he would then have to ask again for a debt waiver where he would have spent another five, respectively. Seven years. All the way up to flight 12. This comment was essential for the Ministry of Agriculture and was settled by the Ministry of Justice as follows: The intervention in ongoing proceedings carried out in this way is potentially unconstitutional. Maintaining application of existing legislation is a general principle of transitional provisions in procedural rules. Debtors who have fulfilled the existing conditions for the approval of debt relief should also complete them under the current legislation. The same shall apply mutatis mutandis to creditors who have already exercised their rights in insolvency proceedings and who have voted in favour of the appropriate method of de-debtion. The legitimate expectations of the parties should be protected. It can also be expected that the proposed decision would constitute a significant burden on insolvency courts for which an increased idea of insolvency cases can already be expected in connection with the adoption of the new legislation. This example deals with the existing provisions of § 415 which permit the granting of exemption from the payment of the remaining claims even with less than 30% satisfaction of unsecured creditors. The requested transitional provision would only apply to tens or hundreds of proceedings per year, the marginal part from the point of view of the existing idea in the debt-debting agenda. The Ministry of Agriculture agrees with the RIA parties, the Ministry of Justice once again demanded to complete the final report, the Ministry of Justice will complete the final report from the evaluation of the impact of regulation as it stands in the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. For me, a very crucial position, and we are close to the conclusion, is the position of the Chamber of Commerce and the position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. Indeed, the Chamber of Commerce took this very well, so that they generally took a position on what should therefore be the objective of this law and what is, unfortunately, far from it. So the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic. General essential comments on the material presented. The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic as an institution representing the interests of the business sector is concerned that the legislative regulation presented will make the situation of creditors worse... I'm sorry the Minister won't listen to me. I actually said these are the most important comments, and he's going to talk to my colleagues. The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic, as an institution representing the interests of the business sphere, is concerned that the proposed legislative regulation will make the situation of creditors worse, the enforcement of their claims, and will generally reduce confidence not only for the business public in the effectiveness of the recovery of claims in the Czech legal order. The minister here said a little while ago that my colleague had already read it. Maybe somebody read it here, on the other hand, the minister here said that the comments were settled after her performance. I've been reading to you all along and demonstrating clearly and proving that the comments are not settled at all, that the contradictions, the contradictions, are more than acceptance. And this reminder is exactly one of them. So repetition is the mother of wisdom, Minister. The proposed amendment is disadvantageous for creditors in terms of both economic and procedural terms. We're afraid there's going to be a reduction in the debt yield. The extension of the payment schedule period to up to seven years and the removal of the repayment condition of at least 30 per cent of the secured debt will likely result in an increase in the number of applications for the debtor's debt relief authorisation. However, they will ultimately pay less to creditors, as they will be obliged to pay a monthly amount of their income to the same extent that preferential claims can be met in the execution of the decision. The whole proposal aims to release the debtor's obligations in view of the need for so-called a second chance, however, without taking into account the position of creditors, especially systemic creditors, which are primarily energy suppliers. More moderate conditions for authorisation and subsequent approval of debt relief will certainly be met by more debtors. For creditors with a large number of customers e.g. The network sectors, i.e. potential debtors, will mean an increase in the diligence of filing applications and operations associated with this, an increased risk of insolvency disputes in monitoring the course of insolvency proceedings, a write-off in the accounting records of debt proceeds, etc. My colleague, Marek Benda, has also spoken about this in part. At this point, the Chamber of Commerce points out that the causes of debt need to be examined. The information available shows that overdebtedness in most cases results from the debtor's own doing and often from his reckless way of life, when he borrows on unnecessary items or pleasures - although the minister here has actually said a sentence that I had to write down that it is fair if it is to the extent that they are humanly able to repay. The Chamber of Commerce also expresses my view that many of these debtors have really come into this situation by their own action and, as they write here, often only by reckless means of life, when they borrow on unnecessary items or pleasures, often on the border of moving entities, and subsequently settles loans payments by drawing on additional loans. In this context, sufficient supervision of debtors will need to be ensured, in particular by insolvency administrators and courts, in order to really identify those who have entered into excessive debt by mistake or by coincidence, not by their unruly life, or even by deliberate accumulation of debts. Major interventions, writes the Chamber of Commerce, should be preceded by a deep analysis of the causes of the debts and certain groups of persons and the structure of their debts, how much the basic needs, such as housing, how much the loans consumed on unnecessary matters, holidays, gifts, electronics etc., rather than by flat-rate softening the rules, which will affect honest creditors in particular. The key to the solution, writes the Chamber of Commerce, could be to promote increasing the financial literacy of citizens and not to further increase the disproportion of rights and weaken the position of creditors vis-à-vis the debtor. Here I have to say that Prague 2, on whose territory the Ministry of Justice is located, is an example of this, and for years we have been working together with the non-profit sector to advise people who have found themselves in the financial network. And this, I think, is exactly the case of good practice, and I completely agree with what the Chamber of Commerce recommends here in this opinion. [[12.20 hours]] The Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic has long supported the implementation of extensive systemic changes, not only by amending the insolvency law, but also by changing the approach of stakeholders and other measures that need to be implemented gradually and over the long term. In the event that the petitioner, the Minister of Justice, insists on the presentation of the material and the continuation of the legislative process despite the above-mentioned disagreement of the Chamber of Commerce, the following comments are made by our members. I'm not going to read that again, because it actually read the word of Mrs. Adamová Pekarová here. But what didn't come out here was how the Justice Department dealt with this position. I'm not gonna strain you - it didn't. It's in the box that hasn't been accepted by the Justice Department. So the Justice Department writes: Debt is a benefit to a debtor who is honest but economically unsuccessful. Debt is monitored to relieve the debtor of the insolvency situation by means of transparent economic activity rather than concealing its income from creditors and carrying out economic activities within the so-called "economic activity'. gray economies. This objective is achieved by a debt pledge in case of partial satisfaction of creditors, respectively. the pursuit of such satisfaction. The debt relief thus results in a partial satisfaction of creditors, which in a number of cases is more advantageous for creditors than staying in the pre-insolvency phase, and also means an economic benefit for the State under the social tax system linked to the restart of the debtor's transparent economic activity. Although in individual cases, the Ministry of Justice writes, the satisfaction of the creditor's claim may be lower than that of existing legislation, the opposite is assumed from a macroeconomic point of view. For example, the rule that debt relief is met and the debtor is exempt from payment of the remainder of the debt in the event that, over a period of three years, he has fulfilled at least 50 per cent of unsecured claims, according to the Ministry of Justice, motivates the debtor to satisfy creditors' claims to the greatest extent possible. Moreover, the factual impossibility of fulfilling the individual recovery claim in the execution procedure does not reduce the performance in favour of the creditor even in the case of collective proceedings under the conditions foreseen in the proposal. The debtor is obliged, after approval of the debt waiver, to pay to the unsecured creditors an amount of its income under Section 398 of the Insolvency Act and to fulfil the obligations under Section 412 of the Insolvency Act. Cumulation of obligations under 1 and 2 is not foreseen by the current legislation. The calculation of the amount under Section 398 of the insolvency law does not change the proposal. The breach of obligations, in particular those under Section 412 of the Insolvency Act, may result in the cancellation of the approved debt waiver at any stage of the payment schedule.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u54	I shall once again ask the House for peace. And if you don't mind, madam, since I've interrupted you, I'm going to let you rest for a while, to drink you some water, because I have to read several, not one, but more excuses for the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Roman Sklenák asked for an apology by the end of the day. From 12.15 until the end of the day, Mr Karel Fiedler asks to be excused. Mr Josef Hájek from 13:00 to the end of the day. From 12 o'clock, Mrs Bohdalová, Prime Minister from 13.15 to the end of the day. Mr. Milan Urban apologizes for the whole day, it was delivered later than the apologies were made in the morning. And at 13:00, Mr. Mr. Běhounek. Mr Tomio Okamura and Mr Radim Fiala apologize from 12 o'clock to the end of the day. And since 11.45 Mr. Adam. I think it's quiet here, Madame, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u55	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. We are still discussing the comments of the Ministry of Justice on what it has written as essential comments from the Chamber of Commerce. The Ministry of Justice writes: Violation of obligations, in particular obligations under Section 412 of the Insolvency Act, may lead to the abolition of approved debt relief at any stage of the payment schedule. Supervision of compliance shall be exercised by the insolvency administrator and the insolvency court. The debtor's access to the fulfilment of the obligations in insolvency proceedings is not negligent or reckless, respectively, as a prerequisite for the authorisation of debt relief. that it cannot be assumed from his current way of life that the debtor will not fulfil his obligations in insolvency proceedings. I wonder who will evaluate this and how it will be, if, of course, these matters cannot even be discussed at the level of self-government in some public regime. It comes up with a whole bunch of other things. So how's someone gonna be, how's he gonna investigate whether someone's leading an uncharted or established life? Another reminder about the Chamber of Commerce. It was explained by the Ministry of Justice that they considered a period of seven years to re-enter debt after the debtor had been exempted a reasonable period of time. This deadline must be seen in the whole of the purpose of the debt relief, in which the interests of the debtor, creditors and the State are combined. Debtor according to the Ministry of Justice represents a benefit for a debtor who is honest but economically unsuccessful. The unfair debtor will be rejected in accordance with Section 395 of the Insolvency Act, respectively. the already approved debt relief will be revoked by the Act of Insolvency, § 418. To limit the debtor to only one option, respectively. to extend the deadline for the application for a debt waiver, according to the Ministry of Justice, it appears disproportionately severe, and the economic failure of an honest debtor may occur repeatedly. In addition, debt is monitored to relieve the debtor of the insolvency situation by means of transparent economic activity rather than concealing its income from creditors and carrying out economic activities within the so-called "bankruptcy'. gray economies. This objective is achieved by a debt pledge in case of partial satisfaction of creditors, respectively. the pursuit of such satisfaction. Debt relief thus leads to partial satisfaction of creditors, which is in many cases more advantageous for creditors, writes the Ministry of Justice than staying in the pre-insolvency phase, and also means economic benefit for the state. Once again, they refer to the macroeconomic regulators and the social and tax systems. Even the Chamber of Commerce had a comment on the sum of CZK 100,000, when the Chamber of Commerce proposed, alternatively, to delete the sentence: The debtor is also not obliged to spend his dwellings, unless the debt report shows that his value exceeds a thousand times the amount of the normative housing costs per person under the special legislation for the apartment used under the lease agreement in the debtor's residence. There they propose two alternatives - the words thousand times the amount to replace the lower multiple with better corresponding real property prices. Again, Minister, I can only say that, in this respect too, I fully agree with the view of the Chamber of Commerce. [[12.30 hours]] You write that you will not accept this because, in your opinion, the limit of CZK 100 000 was set in view of the fact that moneying of low value assets is not effective due to the cost of the proceedings, such as the minimum amount of the insolvency administrator's remuneration is set at CZK 45 000 - the provisions of Section 3 letter. (a) Order No 313/2007 Coll., on the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, on the reimbursement of its final expenses, on the remuneration of members and alternate members of the creditor committee and on the reimbursement of their necessary expenses. The Ministry of Justice writes: The rule that the debtor is not obliged to issue adequate dwellings is that there is no further deterioration in the economic and social situation of the debtor. If creditors decide that the settlement method will be the cashing-in of the property, not the payment schedule with the cashing-in of the property, the debtor's residence will also be cashed in. By expressing the adequacy of a thousand times the amount of the normative housing costs for one person remains, the Ministry of Justice writes, even in view of comments from other comment points, the subject of discussion, both in relation to the amount and in relation to the capture of individual regional differences. The Union of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic - again a number of comments, de facto almost none was accepted by the Ministry of Justice. I'll tell you the general comment again. The Union of Industry and Transport. In general, he welcomes the petitioner's efforts to address the situation of persons in debt trap, as he agrees in principle with the starting points of the petitioner in the preparation of the proposal submitted by the amendment to Act No. 182/2006 Sb., Insolvency Act, as amended. Statistical data show that the number of persons living in a debt trap is very high and executional - it is often the rule that multiples - are not effective against these debtors, writes the Association of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic. The situation then forces obliged persons to look for a source of income in the so-called Grey zone, and then mine. restricts the number of people willing to be employed on the legal labour market, which is particularly undesirable from the employers' point of view in the current labour market situation - a fundamental labour shortage - in particular. On the other hand, however, the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic believes that the proposal does not undergo sufficient analysis of the causes of indebtion with certain groups of persons and the structure of their debts, how much the basic needs, such as housing, how much for loans consumed on unnecessary matters - again: holidays, gifts of electronics, etc. - and also sufficient account being taken of the negative effects that the proposed flat-rate softening of the debt-debt rules may have on honest creditors in particular. Creditors are not just banks and credit companies. A small proportion of the creditors consists of a community of owners and cooperatives whose debt by their own members usually ceases to cover the costs of services, contributions to the correction fund, rents. These entities are in a position of creditors without their will and without the possibility of preventing this situation in any way. Similarly, the proposal will significantly adversely affect creditors - suppliers, for example, electricity and gas, whose claims arose from the withdrawal and consumption of the commodity by the debtor, but the debtor will not pay for the commodities already collected and consumed. This creates a discrepancy between the performance of individual parties, where the debtor would have to be better protected against its creditors. These are the basic criteria which, in the opinion of the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic, the petitioner should consider better and supplement the proposal with measures aimed at taking them into account. And what do you think the Justice Department answered? Unaccepted! Debt relief represents, as the Ministry of Justice says here, a benefit to a debtor who is honest but economically unsuccessful. I would repeat what has been said here repeatedly. So to the apartments to be sure Ministry, respectively. The Ministry of Justice did not comment on this, because the Ministry of Justice has nothing to say about it, because it knows that it is true and that the Union of Industry and Transport is right in this regard. I don't know if there's anyone else in this room who works in municipal politics, but I think that colleagues and colleagues should be interested in how the Ministry of Justice has dealt with, respectively. has not dealt with the position of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. So I am very interested because there are really comments from this organization, an organisation that enjoys some seriousness, so we should not take these comments lightly. So the impact assessment of regulation, writes the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic: Cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic and their established or established legal entities, especially...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u56	Ladies and gentlemen, please rest again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. ... in particular transport undertakings or housing fund managers are one of a significant group of creditors, with a number of claims being made to municipalities for the provision of public services, for example in waste management, etc. Contrary to, for example, consumer credit providers often fall into the position of creditors involuntarily, writes the Association of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic. For the above reason, it is not possible to agree with the final report drawn up, with an assessment of the effects of RIA regulation, where it is stated that the draft law does not have an impact on local authorities. The Union requires this part of the RIA to be recast and supplemented together with an indication of the effects the amendment will have on public budgets of municipalities and their established or established legal entities. This comment is essential for the Union of Towns and Municipalities. The Ministry of Justice explains this in the following way: In accordance with the general principles for the evaluation of the effects of RIA regulation approved by the Government Resolution of 14. 12. 2011 No. 922, as amended, an impact assessment shall be carried out on local authorities, in particular in the field of the delegated performance of the state administration. The position of municipalities and regions in a creditor's position arising from the liabilities falls mainly in the area of self-government, where municipalities and regions act as public corporations and have in principle a similar position to other private creditors. Nor does the fact that they are often so-called impacts of regulation on local authorities affect the issue of regulation. creditors involuntarily. This also applies to a number of other creditors, writes the Ministry of Justice. No specific impacts are foreseen, only those already mentioned in the final report with an assessment of the impact of regulation in other chapters. [[12.40 hours]] The Association of Towns and Municipalities notes that the petitioner, the Ministry of Justice, in turn the government, does not provide any more detailed statistical data, such as the number of proposals for debt relief, approved proposals for debt relief, etc., for each year for the last six years. Furthermore, it does not indicate the number of persons currently in debt relief and the percentage success of the debt relief, the average duration of the entire debt relief process by the courts, the cost of the State of management, decision-making and supervision of the debt management agenda, the cost of the State of unsuccessful proceedings, for example ending with an bankruptcy, which is subsequently abolished due to a lack of assets. According to Decree No 313/2007 Coll., on the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, the remuneration and the final expenses shall be borne by the State in the event that the insolvency administrator cannot satisfy itself on the substance of the property or advance of the proceedings. The Union requires more detailed analysis and addition of data in order to assess the effects of the measures implemented. This comment is essential for the Union of Towns and Municipalities. The opinion of the Ministry of Justice states that this is accepted that the final report from the regulatory impact assessment will be supplemented by relevant statistical data and their more detailed analysis. On that occasion, I would like to ask the Minister when this final report will be supplemented, when we will learn the more detailed analysis, because again in the system I did not find that - I do not have standard access to eKLEP, I can work as a Member, I am not a Minister. I will get into the House of Deputies system and I have not received this information. So I would ask the Minister to send this information to all Members, so that we really have this information, because the information for further discussion of this law is important. And if the Minister promises to provide us with this information, I will not propose and file a motion for adjournment. It is not clear what impact the proposal will have on the remuneration and reimbursement of the final expenses of insolvency administrators, as they can be expected to increase. In the context of the increase in the number of debtors or the extension of the deadline to seven years, revenue will increase significantly. The Union calls for an analysis in this regard to be supplemented. Once again, this reminder is essential to the Union. Comments from the Union of a general nature. The proposal is inspired by foreign insolvency proceedings systems, especially in Germany, where there is no threshold for repayment of debt obligations for six years, and in Austria, where the limit is 10 per cent of seven years. The petitioner of the proposed legislative change advocates the good functioning of a similar system in neighbouring Germany. There is, however, a benevolently set condition of 80 347 approved debt relief in 2015. It is clear from the comparison with neighbouring countries that the debt relief institute in the Czech Republic is already being overused, as debtors are under-informed about its details and basic rules. Such proceedings will then end after a few years of repayment and reimbursement of the costs of the insolvency administrator without a desired result. Bad debt results go hand in hand, but so does its abuse by debtors, who take credit only a few weeks before they propose debt. Unfortunately, the amendment deals with such dishonest intent in a very general manner and leaves at the discretion of the overloaded courts to assess these border situations. The introduction of provisions that allow the debtor to go through debt relief faster and with a fixed limit of 50 percent of the liabilities after three years and 30 percent of the liabilities after five years is unlikely to be used in practice, writes the Union of Towns and Municipalities, as the target group currently proposed will not reach the current 30% limit. Furthermore, the amendment introduces only one method of satisfaction of creditors, namely a payment schedule with the cashing of assets, where, according to the current text, creditors have to choose either a payment schedule or a cashing-in of assets. The solution, which could mean higher performance for creditors, has its protective limits in the amendment, which make it more or less unusable. This applies in particular to the protective limit in the provisions of § 398 para. 6, when the debtor is not obliged to issue the assets to be monetized unless the proceeds exceed CZK 100,000. Furthermore, the same paragraph provides a protective limit for the monetization of the debtor's dwelling. Other institutions have already said that they do not consider this way of designing to be happy. Unfortunately, the position of the Ministry of Justice on these observations of a general nature by the Union of Towns and Municipalities was not accepted. So the Minister here said that a number of these comments were settled, so the Union of Towns and Municipalities really did deal with a minimum of them. And I'll read you the Ministry of Justice's opinion on the comments made by the Union of Towns and Municipalities. In addition, debt is monitored to relieve the debtor of the insolvency situation by means of transparent economic activity rather than concealing its income from creditors and carrying out economic activities within the so-called "bankruptcy'. gray economies. This objective is achieved by a debt pledge in case of partial satisfaction of creditors, respectively. the pursuit of such satisfaction. Debt relief leads to partial satisfaction of creditors, which is in a number of cases more advantageous to creditors than staying in the pre-insolvency phase and also means economic benefit to the State. Again the framework of the social and tax system, the connection with the restart of transparent economic activity by the debtor. At the same time, debt is also the benefit of the debtor. It's too bad the term "mercies act" didn't run out here, the minister likes to use it so much, maybe he could fill it in. - At the same time, debt is the benefit of a debtor who is honest but economically unsuccessful. The perception of the debt institution as a benefit to a debtor who is honest but economically unsuccessful - that is the second chance principle - remains a proposal, including the proposed conditions of entry and exit in debt, even if, in individual cases, the satisfaction of the creditor's claim can be kept lower than that of existing legislation. From a macroeconomic point of view, the opposite situation is presented, in addition, the factual impossibility of fulfilling the individual recovery claim in the execution procedure does not reduce the performance in favour of the creditor even in the case of collective proceedings under the conditions of the anticipated proposals. Statistical data show that even under the current legislation, a sixth of debtors will meet their debts 100% after the start of the debt waiver, writes the Ministry of Justice. The combination of the fulfilment of debt relief and the exemption from payment of claims with a different repayment period depending on the amount of satisfaction of creditors thus has, among other things, an incentive function, says the Ministry of Justice. [[12.50 hours]] Even under the proposed legislation, two ways of resolving the debtor's bankruptcy remain - Section 398 - between which creditors can choose. The limit, as the Ministry of Justice writes, was set in view of the fact that the moneying of low-value assets is not effective due to the cost of monetization. The minimum amount of the remuneration of the insolvency administrator shall be set at 45 thousand, paragraph 3 (a). (a) Decree 313/2007 Coll., on the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, on the reimbursement of its final expenses and the remuneration of members and alternates of the creditor committee and on the reimbursement of their necessary expenses. The residence of the debtor, writes the Ministry of Justice, is protected only to a certain value in the case of a payment schedule with the cashing of property, which excludes completely disproportionate dwellings in city centers, villas and large family houses from the protection of ex lege. I would like to know what a luxury apartment is in the concept of the Ministry of Justice in the city centre, a villa and a large family house, how this will be assessed, whether we will get back to the 1950s, when part of the apartments will be distributed administratively, because for someone it is a large apartment of 80 meters and for someone it is not a large apartment of 200 meters. So if the Ministry of Justice wants to go the same way as in the 1950s representatives of the Communist Party, not then Bohemia and Moravia, but KSČM institutional, old, so whether the above-sized meters will be determined here in the same way, Mr. Minister, as it was in those decrees and in the laws, then in the Civil Code, as it was intended. At the same time, creditors remain able to choose the method of de-debting assets and dwellings to settle their claims and to retain the debtor's future income for the provision of a replacement dwelling and the conclusion of a lease agreement. A statement of the adequacy of a thousand times the amount of normative housing costs per person will be changed, both in relation to the amount and in relation to the capture of individual regional differences. The proposed limit will be reduced. At the same time, in order to ensure the possibility of responding to changes in the economic situation, the regulation will be contained in the implementing legislation. The proposed decree will contain an alternative solution. First, based on the normative housing costs - I do not know whether statistical data will be taken or how this will be calculated, because really other housing and life costs are a city from the city - on the one hand, the average purchase prices of real estate published by the Czech Statistical Office. Here I would just say what the Minister of Justice probably knows that because his colleague from the ANO movement, Mayor Krnáčová and other members of her coalition in the capital city of Prague are blocking the approval of the zoning plan and all the standards that could determine what territory will be built and not be built, so precisely because of this blocking of these people of yours, your colleagues, is happening in Prague that prices, the purchase prices of real estates rise to really incredible heights precisely because the basic instruction of demand-offering, so if the offer here is artificially suppressed by the fact that they are unable to approve the territorial plan and standards that would regulate the territory of Prague after three years of their reign, so the Pražan and all those who would like to be Pragueans can thank them for the fact that these prices have grown into what crazy heights. So I'm also wondering how this is going to be judged. The performance of insurance contracts for damage insurance shall not be considered as an exceptional income, as their purpose is not to increase the value of the debtor's assets, but to provide funds for the recovery of damaged or destroyed goods. The amount of the insurance contracts will depend on the amount of the damage suffered. - Yes, that's logical. The Union of Towns and Municipalities also had a number of comments beyond the amendment. In particular, it drew attention to the contradiction between § 140e para. Articles 418 (1) point (a) and 418 (1) point (b) of CRR Article 4 (1) (a) (c) paragraph 2 where it reads: "If the enforcement of a decision or execution cannot be ordered or initiated, the debt relief already approved may not be cancelled. The debtor may thus be newly indebted in the course of dedebtion." This observation is considered essential by the Union of Towns and Municipalities. The Ministry of Justice did not accept this observation and claimed it to be a reminder beyond the scope of the proposal, since, according to what the Ministry of Justice says here, these provisions do not conflict. Even in the course of de-debting, the debtor enters into legal circumstances under the conditions laid down in Section 418 and is then sanctioned by the cancellation of the approved de-debting. Again, the Union of Towns and Municipalities proposes to extend exemptions to public sanctions, e.g. penalties for offences. Again not accepted from the point of view of the Ministry of Justice. It is stated that this is a reminder beyond the scope of the proposal and that it is an issue beyond the scope of the draft law relating to debt relief. The exclusion of claims under Section 170d of the Insolvency Act is traditional in Czech countries. In this respect it is possible to refer e.g. the provisions of Article 59 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 1 point 2 of Act 64/1931 Coll. and the amendment to which bankruptcy, compensatory and opposition orders are issued, and to § 33 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (d) bankruptcy and settlement law. Very important comments on this proposal were taken by the cooperative associations of the Czech Republic, where their negative position on the proposal is actually written in very bold letters. I would like to quote their position to you: The proposal resolves the situation of overdebted persons at the expense of creditors who entered into a contractual relationship voluntarily with the debtor, but also at the expense of roommates in residential homes. Five exclamation points. The proposal is unacceptable in a situation where the protection of properly paying persons from defaulters is not adequately addressed in the Czech legal order, which means, in particular, the long-term unsolved catastrophic state of recovery of claims in residential homes/bequests of housing cooperatives and claims of the community of owners/, which we have been drawing attention to for many years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u58	I will interrupt you, colleague, and ask the House again for peace, because the noise level has increased. I will ask you how much longer you have your speech prepared, because I will have to make some organizational arrangements, given the decision of the Chamber of Deputies of 9am.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u59	Vice-President, as long as it takes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-003-074.u60	In that case, I'll ask you to make a proper note of the interruption. I'm sorry again for not letting you finish probably the whole quote. But I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and at 13 o'clock I will launch a firmly classified item The Prime Minister's information on measures against the misuse of collateral orders by the Financial Administration, which we voted for in the morning, and I note that I have also stated the Prime Minister's apology after 13.15, so we are likely to have to discuss this effectively. We will probably decide on the continuation of the interrupted point 74 on Tuesday, because I don't suppose we can go back to it today. Thank you, Mrs Černochová. [[Mrs Černochová: Thank you, too, Mr Vice-President.]] Once again, I apologise and interrupt paragraph 74, with the fact that I leave Mrs Černochová and the other entries for the debate are Mrs Golasowská, Mrs Benda and others. [[Mrs Cernochová returns to the bench, accompanied by a round of applause for the right part of the hall.]] So at this point, we're going to be dealing with point 340. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur.
