ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u1	100. Members of Vladislav Vilímec, Jana Černochová, Radek Vondráček, Jiří Junek and Jana Hnyková's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 212/2009 Coll., which alleviates property injustices to citizens of the Czech Republic for real estate that they have left in the territory of the Podkarpatské Rusi in connection with its contractual assignment of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, as amended by Act No. 121/2012 Sb. House print 403/ - third reading Mr. Vilímec is already at the rapporteur's table. I will ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Miloslava Vostroa, to do the same. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 403/8, which was delivered on 31 May 2007. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 403/9. I ask the representatives of the appellants whether they wish to speak before the debate is opened. That's right. Mr. Vilímec has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is common in all readings - that it has always been discussed just before the end of the negotiating period, so this time it is 14 minutes to the end. We'll see. At least let's get started. The aim of the amendment of the law is to make a meaningful end to compensation, which will alleviate property grievances for real estate that they have left in the territory of Podkarpatské Rusi. We made this parliamentary proposal because, on the one hand, not all entitled persons have ever lived to submit an appropriate claim for compensation, and in addition, while currently 37 entitled persons have lived to submit an application, they have died in the meantime. This clearly brings about the need to make certain legislative changes in this matter. The purpose of the legislators in 2009 certainly was not to set the conditions for compensation so as to eliminate a substantial part of the beneficiaries with compensation because they could not actually physically live to see that moment. Unfortunately, that is exactly what happened. This bill, which responds to the factual situation, was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies on 17 February 2015, so that in three days he will be two and a half years old, and of course I report that in the course of time some of the terms in the original proposal, especially time terms, have become out of date. For this reason, amendments had to be tabled. Basically, we have two suggestions on the table. One is the draft Constitutional Committee under point A, supplemented by an update of the relevant time date by Mr Tejc, and then by proposal B, which I submitted together with Mr Jiří Junk. Draft Constitutional Legal Committee, i.e. proposal A, so-called. minimalist, it concerns only cases where the entitled persons have lived to submit an application but have not lived to close administrative or judicial proceedings and therefore no compensation has been paid to them. According to the Home Office's information, this is currently 37 cases. That's a proposal for 37 cases. I want to remind you that there were, of course, fewer cases at the time of the bill, so these people are gradually dying. The second proposal I made with Mr Junk reflects a situation where the entitled persons did not even see the possibility of submitting a claim for compensation. I consider it not only more comprehensive but also more fair to the rightful persons. I think that no one can seriously defend the current situation where damage cannot be mitigated simply because the children of the original owners do not live. The proposal therefore extends the entitled persons to the spouses of the children of the original owner and then to the grandsons of the original owner. I would like to stress and underline that this amendment reduces our original intention, printed in the original press, leaving out the rightful persons of the great-grandson and other entitled persons in the time sequence or will heir. [[13.50 hours]] I will only add to the objections raised by the ministries against the two amendments in fact that the very dramatic fates of these people cannot be perceived only from the optics of fiscal impacts, or in some cases the personnel burden of ministries. The views presented by the representatives of the ministries on the guarantee committee were such a one-sided point of view of the state bureaucracy in this matter. For me and I think for most of the members of the budget committee, that was quite a sad finding. Now, about the particular objections. On the other hand, the broader proposal is presented by the ministries with an argument of impact on the state budget of up to CZK 2 billion. Here I have to say, and really with the knowledge that these impacts are completely exaggerated. First, each case is multiplied by CZK 2 million, which is the limit of compensation. On the other hand, the official data of the Ministry of the Interior show that from the beginning of the law's effectiveness until today, that is to say in the eight years, 548 applicants have been settled and paid out of the state budget CZK 340 million. This means much less than there were estimates in 2009, which also amounted to around billions. In the case of a proposal from the Constitutional Committee, the Ministry also argues that there is a different approach to those grandchildren whose parents have lived to submit an application and otherwise to those who have not lived to submit an application. Again, the mechanically calculated amount is reported, so once again, one case is multiplied by the limit of compensation. I don't want to talk for a long time, but as a petitioner, I would like to call on you to understand that the intervention in property rights against those who have lost property in the Podkarpatsky Russians has been very extensive. The fates of the Podkarpathian Čech and their families were mostly very dramatic. Therefore, there should be actual and not in certain cases merely declared compensation, when it is clear that the original owners did not live to see it at all and their children did not have the possibility in some cases either. I therefore recommend, like the guarantee budget committee, to accept the amendment under letter B, which is in the intention of the legislators, even knowing that, of course, all cases can no longer be compensated. However, this proposal seeks a dignified settlement with the original owners who had to leave their possessions, often their livelihoods, and whose families had to deal with this with great problems. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u3	I thank the representatives of the plaintiffs and open the debate for which I have the Minister of Finance's application. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the request to mitigate property grievances is justified. I am very sorry that he has been discussed for so long and some of those entitled have not lived to see it. On the other hand, I would like to turn against the fact that some members of the Committee on Budgets acted bureaucratically and defended the interests of the state budget. It is the state budget of the Czech Republic, and the amendment significantly increases the state budget spending, perhaps by up to two billion. We can speculate on this amount because, like most of the Members' proposals, this proposal does not contain any analysis of how these claims will fall into the state budget. Moreover, by significantly expanding the range of entitled persons, there will be interpretation contradictions and it also poses a serious risk of duplication of compensation and breaking the maximum limit of compensation laid down in the present wording of the Act. For this reason, the Ministry of Finance has completely justified objections to this amendment, which will once again mean spending on the state budget, which is already overloaded by expenditure, which then leads to the fact that those things that we should do for the benefit of the citizens of the Czech Republic, such as promoting education, science, research, innovation, construction of transport, which can already be built next year, support universities, so there will simply be no money in that budget. So we can, and it is right that we will simply comply with those property grievances, but it must have a certain dimension and scope and cannot jeopardize the state budget of the Czech Republic. So... The Ministry of Finance has a serious problem with this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u5	I thank the Minister of Finance for his comments. With a factual remark, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, then a representative of the appellants in the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u6	Minister Pilný will certainly understand the logical reservation I will have for his performance. We're in favour of mitigating property grievances, but we're not giving up any money. That's kind of like cheap support. Well, that's basically how it is. I know there's another way to wrap it up. It doesn't have to be said directly like I said. I've gotten a little thicker. Almost nothing to be fair, almost nothing. So we're almost in favor of mitigating property grievances, and we're almost sorry that some of them haven't lived, which is why we're giving them almost nothing. That's what this is about. And, Minister, don't be mad at me, it's not fair to these former fellow citizens and their heirs and their families to say, he won't be on the highway, he won't be in college. That's really not fair to these people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u7	I thank Mr Stanjur for his time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Vice-Presidents, Mr Vilímec, in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u8	Thank you. I, my fellow Members, would like to respond to the Minister's speech. I must therefore reject the knowledge of the matter, because I know our proposal very precisely, we have consulted it both with the Ministry of Finance and with the Ministry of the Interior that it would expand the proposal, increasing the limit of compensation. It's not like that. The limit of compensation of CZK 2 million for each set of assets, the so-called property application, remains unchanged. So nothing's increasing. Only here is the constant debate about how many grandsons there could be. If the grandsons are 200, which corresponds roughly to the figures of the Podkarpatsky Russian Clave, or the grandsons are a thousand, which is the fear of the Ministry of Finance. It turned out during the application of this proposal, when applying the existing law, that the estimates, unfortunately, I have to say, were also in 2009, that the estimates of ministries, how much they would ask for compensation, proved to be very odd. That means if I had to tell the truth, I know I shouldn't have done it, so those grandsons could be, like, 300, tops, there won't be more. This means, I reject the fact that this amendment that we have tabled, or even the proposal that we have tabled, would be a threat to the state budget. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u9	I thank Mr Vilímc for his speech in the debate. I do not have any further applications for the debate, so I can end the debate. I ask the final words of the plaintiff's representative - no. Do you, Mr. Ambassador? [[No.]] Neither is Mr Vostrá as rapporteur, Mr Tejc as rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee. It's not like that. So if the final words aren't, I'm gonna ask the rapporteur for the guarantee committee - I'm not gonna ask yet. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura is declared with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u10	Unfortunately, given the time, we are unable to complete the vote. I think it is a good thing that we have concluded a general debate, so when we get to it some voting day, we can just vote. I do not think that after a long time it is good to divide the vote - that we would vote something today and we would vote something in September. I don't think it's good, which is why I volunteered to use those two minutes. [[14.00 hours]] And the second thing, it's also up to the Minister of Finance - we can still discuss it in September. There's a $2 million limit on that one file, but with that application, it turns out that the average is about $500,000 and not $2 million. But, of course, the Ministry, when it counts, says a thousand grandsons times 2 million, and says, that's up to 2 billion. Really, it's going to be a lot less. Really, I think it could be up to 200 million. And 200 million won't help either the highways or the universities or all the other expenses Mr. Finance Minister Ivan Pilný talked about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-011-100.u11	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I therefore see his proposal as interrupting this point until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I will have it voted in the following vote, because I myself cannot do so. I'll sign you all out, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. Even after that, we will still have to do a few organizational things. I have begun voting number 303 and I ask who is in favour of interrupting this point - the discussion. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 303, from present 90 for 81, against 2. We have therefore interrupted the discussion of the House's press 403, paragraph No. 100 today's meeting, and we will deal with it another time, according to the decision of the Organising Committee and the Chamber of Deputies. It is now 14 o'clock and, given the agreement that has fallen between the presidents of the parliamentary clubs, it is necessary to decide the fate of this meeting. The only possible way to end this meeting if we do not want to leave it open - but, according to the meeting of the members of the Members' Clubs, we are to close it - is to vote in favour of excluding unnegotiated items from the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. That's what we're going to decide in the number 304, which I started, and I'm asking who's in favour of eliminating unnegotiated points. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 304, from 91 Members present for 67, against 5. The motion was accepted. I note that after this decision, the agenda of the meeting is exhausted. The next unnegotiated items will be the subject of either a meeting due to the timetable, i.e. in September of this year, or extraordinary meetings, if some Members insist on their discussion and the President of the Chamber of Deputies has nothing to do but follow the Rules of Procedure. At this point, I bid you farewell, I wish you a pleasant holiday if you have it. I wish everyone else good health and happiness, and that we meet in the light at the latest. Have a good day.
