ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 903/ - second reading We have dealt with this bill on 23 May, and the general debate has been interrupted. I ask that they sit at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiffs of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and the rapporteur for the guarantee committee, which is the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil. I'm going to ask you in this context whether you're interested in opening performances or... [[Ambassador Zavadil doesn't want to get off.]] Let's keep going, great. We will therefore continue with the interrupted general debate, where Mr Karel Rais, then Mrs Jana Černochová, came forward. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. A general debate is open.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u2	Hello, Mr President, Madam Secretary, colleagues. Today I will be a little longer, if I may, because I have a number of amendments. In my first amendment, I would like to address the issue of home office in universities, because on the one hand, it is worthwhile that the applicant pays attention to this issue, but I think it is unfortunately defined for the needs of universities, especially in view of the employer's new obligation to cover the costs of work from home, including, for example, the connection and means of communication. In the case of academic staff, Home Office makes a considerable part of their work. It is part of the usual way of working in universities and is also a common benefit for academic staff. The new rules would lead to a significant restriction on the provision of this option by universities, which is certainly not a desirable relationship. Therefore, I propose that academic workers be excluded from this adjustment. The proposed amendments are then specifically mentioned in the amendment which I have deposited in the information system under number 5192. Another amendment concerns the issue of the new obligation to schedule the duration of work for the work agreement and for the work agreement and the new obligation to set breaks at work, which, in turn, are quite frequently used tools in the working relationship between employees and universities. We propose once again the removal of a new employer's obligation to record the duration of work for persons, workers working under an agreement on work and labour agreements, as well as the removal of a new employer's obligation to be responsible for keeping a break in work for workers working on an agreement on work and an agreement on the performance of work. The new regulation of young workers still remains unaffected by the amendment. Basically, the point is that, as managers, we should determine employees who work on appropriate agreements, when they have a break at work when they need to work on a project in the afternoon or in the evening, not to mention the impossibility of requiring these duties when it comes to foreign academics. In the explanatory memorandum, the proposer himself admits that the said adjustment will entail substantial material costs on the part of employers. In the case of labour agreements, this can be completely liquidated for occasional employment, for example, for students, pensioners and other weak low-income groups, where the employer reduces the scope of employment due to the newly established administration. This proposal for the discharge of this obligation is supported by the Council of Higher Education Works Commissions, which is a legal representation of universities. So, to put it plainly, the point is that it is not possible to really control breaks in the case of workers who make agreements. This amendment is introduced in the information system under number 5506 and, of course, I will sign up for it in a detailed debate. The next amendment is again devoted to working agreements, namely that the compensatory period for the work agreement is newly defined. Again, I propose that the new definition of a reduction in the compensatory period for the employment agreement be deleted, because the proposal means a reduction from 52 weeks to 26 weeks, which is problematic in certain areas of employment relations, especially in the field of universities, where there is no mutual cover for academic and calendar years. In higher education, so-called DPČ, agreements on work activities, are usually concluded at the beginning of January of a given year with a duration of one year. In practice, the 26-week compensation period would mean that in the months of January to June, when a double examination period is taking place and the teaching of the summer semester, the activities of the employees at DPČ in universities would have to be reduced, on the contrary, in the months of July to December, when only the teaching of the winter semester takes place, there would be little work for which a worker working at DPČ could not be rewarded. Again, this solution means a considerable increase in bureaucratic burdens in the administration of universities. As in previous cases, this proposal to delete the above mentioned limitation of the compensatory period is supported by the Council of Higher Education Working Commissions, which is the legal representation of universities. This amendment is under number 5507. I'm halfway through. The fourth amendment addresses the issue of a new definition of remuneration for work agreements and labour agreements. We are proposing once again to remove this restriction in the area of non-employment agreements, namely the abolition of compulsory remuneration guaranteed by wage instead of the minimum wage. The practice, when the remuneration of agreements, or their lower limit, derived from the minimum wage, allowed employers, such as universities, to participate in their activities and students, to a much greater extent. This new adjustment and the complexity of the determination of the appropriate rate will lead to a downturn in this practice. In addition, a separate agreement will have to be negotiated for each activity because of the different rates. This amendment is under number 5509. The fifth amendment, under number 5570, is devoted to the issue of a new limitation on the possibility of reducing leave, where the employer can only reduce leave in the event of an unforgivable absence at the time of the shift, only by the hours that the employee has missed. In fact, the reduction is racked up by the fact that employees cannot be reduced to less than three weeks per working year. De facto, the holiday can be reduced by only one week and 5 days, respectively, against legal entitlement. The petitioner here argues with the 1970 International Organization Convention, so now they have remembered it, and in my opinion, or my colleagues, the convention is misinterpreted and its reasoning in the explanatory report is misleading. [[Work]] The Convention refers to entitlement to paid leave, the duration of which may not be less than 3 weeks per calendar year. I could quote the deal here. I think that we should not favour those who avoid fulfilling their duties or committing socially harmful acts, and that this new amendment point keeps them going. I therefore believe that this relevant amendment point should be deleted and left in the original version of the law. [[15.40 hours]] The next amendment concerns the registration of weekly working hours. I've got it under number 5191. The proposer assumes that there will be a mandatory schedule of weekly working hours and, in accordance with this schedule, it will be allocated to the employees of the work, which is completely inappropriate for the environment of universities. It means, folks, that they're just going to give us a firm dictation of working hours from, say, 8:30 to 4:30, and what's going on between, that's not covered by the labor code. It's one of the most ridiculous designs here. So, of course, the representation of universities, the Council of Higher Education Institutions, which - and I would like to quote the resolution here: The Council of Higher Education does not agree with the obligation to schedule weekly working hours at universities set out in the amendment to the Labour Code, which is currently being discussed in the Chamber of Deputies. This obligation will significantly burden higher education institutions and is foreign to the academic environment of universities." In a way it is - I may use a slightly exaggerated concept - a liquidation tool for Czech universities and, of course, also for Czech science. Just the idea that the academics would be banned from studying or performing science on Saturdays or Sundays and doing so only in a specific period of time, I don't think it's been here since the founding of Charles University. [[studied?]] [[Running?]] That's just a new one that's totally weird. I also have this amendment under number 5191 in the information system. The penultimate amendment under number 5786 is again a matter of home office, where, according to the amendment, we need to find out the costs of communication between the employee and the employer and other costs incurred in carrying out the work. These costs, and I believe, and that is our contribution there - I believe that these costs could be included in the salary, salary or remuneration of the agreement after the previous written agreement between the employee and employer. It's just that we don't have to record how much electricity we use to turn on a computer. Those amendments are therefore mentioned in this amendment, where I propose that the new home office regulation allow the employer to project the cost of home offices directly into the salary, salary or remuneration of the agreement, provided that the employer and the employee have agreed in advance on this in writing. The last amendment, which I have under number 5888, concerns the service of documents. It's more of a technical specification of what the plaintiff intended. In essence, the proposer speaks reasonably that the document is delivered by the employer to the employee in his own hands at the workplace. If it is not possible to deliver a document at the workplace, the employer may deliver it through the postal service operator, through the electronic communications network or services. It's basically a kind of refinement here, so it's obvious how this communication is in the service of documents. I apologize for delaying you for so long, but it is eight amendments, and for many of them I am basically trying to clarify the things that the plaintiff may have put forward in good faith, but he wrote them clumsyly in an amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have two factual points here. One from Mr Karel Fiedler, one from Minister Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u4	When I look at the board, I see that some Members are written twice into a detailed discussion. It's probably by mistake, but it's okay. Today's negotiations will certainly be long, and since the Chamber of Deputies has already expressed the will to include some points today, I would like to propose that we discuss only the points that are firmly placed today after 19 and 21 hours, so that we can discuss those points that have been proposed as firmly classified. So to show that it wasn't crap, that paragraph 194 had been voted, but to see how the Chamber of Deputies really meant it with the will to tax koruna bonds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u5	I will only warn you, Mr Member, that only two members of Parliament under the Rules of Procedure may submit this proposal for an extension of the term of procedure. [[Member Fiedler seeks support from Members of other MPs. No one has joined the motion.]] Now, with a factual remark, Minister Pilný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have already expressed my objections to the Labour Code here as Chairman of the Economic Committee and now I have to join it as Minister of Finance. The economy must work in some way and it cannot be thrown into it at all times. We're already in big trouble. We're missing 120,000 places that aren't filled. I could keep going. What happened is that some skeleton of the Labour Code was agreed on tripartite. A large number of amendments have been applied to this, some of which may even go in the right direction, but many of them will do more harm than good. I'm not here to develop the discussion that was here last time. This means that employers can actually be happy to have employees. I think that goes the other way around. And the condition for the functioning of the economy is by far not only correct and correct tax collection, as my predecessor did, but also other things. That is why I propose that this law be rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u7	Thank you for the luxury of keeping time. Just a second I will read the apology of Mrs Květa Matušovská, who apologizes with today from 16.00 to the end of the day for a personal reason, and Mrs Jana Hnyková cancels her apology, is present, she has already dealt with it. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I am pleased that the current Minister of Finance is also doing part of the opposition work. So our role as a opposition is easier, and I thank him very much for that. However, let me also say the part of the opinion that TOP 09 has already had on this law for a long time and, of course, by proposing some other procedures. As you know, the government is presenting an amendment to the Labour Code, where it declares the objective of making the labour market more flexible. The TOP 09 has denied, from the very beginning, that this proposal, despite the declared target, would have gone in the right direction. On the contrary, it goes in the opposite direction. This means that the labour market will not be flexible, but precisely the opposite. Employers agree on this, whether the big ones represented by the Confederation of Industry and Transport of the Czech Republic or even the smaller ones who are represented in the Association of Small and Medium Enterprises and Traders of the Czech Republic. The adoption of the amendment to the Labour Code in this form, as presented by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, is, as far as I know, also opposed by the Chamber of Commerce. [[15.50 hours]] As you know, a number of amendments have been tabled in the Committee on Social Policy, I believe, about 60 amendments. The amendments were tabled by Members across the political spectrum, which in itself points out that there is no consensus on this amendment either in the Chamber of Deputies and, as the Minister of Finance has just shown here, neither in the whole coalition. In our opinion, the Committee adopted amendments have made the whole amendment such a cat-dog, where trade union amendments have been pushed through the individual Members, even though there was an agreement on tripartite that neither party of the economic and social agreement would interfere with the government's proposal. Although the trade unions deny this agreement, they deny it, I suspect, even a colleague of the Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy Jaroslav Zavadil, but as we know, the agreement has been said. I do not know if the President Zavadil at the tripartite meeting at which this agreement was held, but this agreement was made out of available public sources. I am based on the fact that Secretary Michaela Marksová spoke of her on 6 June, when she said - I quote: "There has been an agreement between the social partners that, in the form in which the amendment is now in, it can be referred to the government, with the fact that if there is any further issue in the legislative process on which both parties agree, it can be inserted with the support of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. But basically, we agreed that none of the social partners would abuse the legislative process and try to push something into the Labour Code, which is not an agreement. That's the same promise I made for the government party." That's a quote from Secretary Michaela Marksová. Of course, as I said before, it was from one side, and that was from the union, not followed and broken. Of course, if there is no written and signed agreement, it is still obvious that this agreement has been established, and the only ones who have violated it were the trade unions that have submitted dozens of proposals in committee discussions. For this reason, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to comply with § 93 para. 2 returned the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. Members of the TOP 09 mentioned at the first reading, and in particular my colleague Markéta Adamová, the reservations that TOP 09 has on the amendment to the Labour Code. I will not repeat much here what my colleague Markéta Adamová said at first reading, but I will sum up briefly. She spoke here about the introduction of a new category of top employees, which we consider to be completely unnecessary. She spoke of changes in the calculation of leave, major changes in the absences, according to which the employee will not be able to have reduced leave by one to three days, but only by the missed time, which lacks all the preventive effects. Another fundamentally flawed legislative step is the new obligation for employers to prevent the risk of stress or unnecessarily detailed work from home, which will result in no employer offering this institute to its employees. According to TOP 09, the proposal is irresponsible as well, according to which the entrepreneur will not be able to transfer employees to another position unless the employee agrees to it himself. In the event of a crisis, employers and, ultimately, employees will pay for this. The fact that employers' representatives agree to our complaints is obvious. That is why it has already been announced that we will once again propose the rejection of this amendment, and together with the Association of Employers, as the TOP 09, we have called on other parliamentary parties to join this proposal. So here I am announcing that we will also propose a motion for rejection. I would like to take this time to briefly justify here the amendment concerning work from home, to which I will sign up in a detailed debate and which has been created and put into the system by my colleague, Mrs Markéta Adamová. As the petitioner himself states in the explanatory memorandum, the Labour Code allows the employer to carry out work outside the employer's workplace, since it does not prohibit such work. For this reason, I believe that the current legislation is sufficient and there is no need for detailed specifications of work from home and remote work to be anchored in the Labour Code. The definition of long-distance working relationships is currently based on an individual agreement between the employer and the employee. Employers provide so-called home office to its employees as a work benefit, which is very popular and used. The proposed definition of work from home is unnecessarily detailed and brings additional administrative burden to employers. The employer would be in this case if the law passed, e.g. newly obliged to cover the costs of communication between the employee and the employer and other costs incurred by employees in carrying out their work, he would be obliged to ensure that employees performing their work outside the employer's workplace are not denied contact with other employees, which I find completely smiling, or to provide the technical and software necessary for the performance of the employee's work. In other words, if this law passes in this proposed form and this amendment is not accepted, it will almost make it impossible to work at home, so-called. Home office. All of this is contrary to the government's declared efforts to reduce the administrative burden on business. The proposed adjustment does not bring any benefits against the increased administrative burden compared to the current situation. I think that's obvious today. In the event of adoption of the proposed amendment, employers are at risk of stopping offering this benefit due to new obligations. Therefore, I propose that the amendment remove all new obligations for employers relating to work from home, and this is part of the amendment. Dear colleagues, the government amendment to the law in its present form, and thus after the adoption of other amendments, mostly from the ČSSD MPs, will significantly damage the labour market. No one else will pay more than the employees themselves. I therefore repeat my call: Let us not accept this law, reject it and start working together on a form that will meet the real needs of the labour market and will not only declare its flexibility, but actually allow it. We may not be able to make it through this parliamentary term, but with a clear conscience, we will adopt a law that will have support, I hope, across the entire political spectrum and social partners, and in particular it will meet the needs of the 21st century. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u9	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We have four factual points now. Mr Ivan Adamec, after whom Minister Pilný, Mrs Chalánková, was the first to make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, absent government, colleagues and colleagues. I really feel like I'm in Jiříkův's vision here today. And the fact is, if you haven't registered it, if you're watching the debate, here's the government proposal concerning the Labour Code, and the government minister here is proposing to reject this proposal. Where are we, please? What kind of government does one of the ministers say about a government proposal that needs to be rejected? Are we really making fun of each other tonight? I understand that everyone here can have a slightly different opinion about it. I understand. Last time we talked about second reading, someone thinks employees' rights should be higher than employers' rights and vice versa. It's okay, let's discuss it. But I haven't really seen or heard this before. I really appeal to everyone - I don't know how to do it now. I think that at this point, we should interrupt the negotiations on this government proposal, ask the government to agree what it wants, and then let it do our job here, so we can process it and put it into circulation. [[16.00 hours]] I agree with the Minister that we need flexible labour law, it is an important part of our economy. And as far as the union is concerned, you know, the union, of course, defends the interests of employees. And I can sometimes think what I want about it, but that's why they came out. But I wouldn't tell them they're doing something right here. If they didn't have Members who are attached to them or who don't communicate with them, they wouldn't take their views for their own, so the unions here in this self-contained House can't do anything. I say that quite frankly. Let's call it what it is! Tripartite made some preliminary agreement and, of course, the different tripartite members of some part disliked it, so it transfers it to the House and tries to change it. I think it's legal, that's what you're supposed to do. [[Attention on time.]] But what puzzles me is: it is a government proposal and the government minister is against it! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u11	Minister Pilný is not present, so with Mrs Chalánková's point of fact, then Mr Chalupa, then President Kováčik. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u12	Thank you for the word, I will be quite short, because many have already been said. I would also like to say for TOP 09 and also for our TOP 09 expert team that our outputs are an appeal to the country's strategic direction and also to adapt it to the amendments that are constantly being submitted, whether it concerns the Labour Code or are still further and further amendments to the employment laws. Let us, indeed, find a consensus both across the political spectrum and between employers and employees and in line with the strategic direction of the country that needs to be defined, so let us then talk about how laws such as labour laws or employment laws should also be developed. Many things move from the benefit field to the legal obligations imposed on employers. I find that really unnecessary and inappropriate. I join what has already been said, I join the motion for rejection. It's a TOP 09 attitude. Or return the guarantee committee to renegotiate. And, of course, I also agree with the suspension of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u13	Thank you. Mr Chalupa, after whom Mr Kováčik, Mr Kováčik, after whom Mr Zavadil.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u14	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to hear from the petitioner about the fact that the proposal also includes definitions that are included in the so-called. The European Anti-discrimination Directive, because if I remember correctly, we had a Security Committee where the gentlemen of the government came, read us what the anti-discrimination directive contained, and left with the fact that we did not vote for them. Nobody knew exactly what it was. I draw attention to this for the reason that the Czech Republic is rejecting quotas at this time, but I would like to know what we are going to do when the Czech Republic really gets into a situation where we - and I do not want it, but the alternative here is - when the European Union forces us to adopt 20, 50 or 100 000 migrants from Africa, there will be this labour code and there will be this anti-discrimination directive. How are we gonna handle this? Because even those migrants will have the right to be employed! And I wonder how this is going to work out, because it's going to be completely, and I feel like it's completely out of the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u15	Mr Kováčik, the rapporteur after him, the Minister after him. [[Agreement with Mr Zavadil.]] The rapporteur is a gentleman, he prefers a lady. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, this time, although I am quite sorry, I must agree with my colleague Adamec. What kind of government discusses the bill in due process, comes with it to the House, and then individual ministers buy the bill after the motion to reject it? I am just reminding you, and I offer it to my colleague Adamc and his colleagues from the ODS club, that what we have said here about the fact that the government is no longer bringing anything decent, because when it comes to the House with something, it is building it up to each other, individual government parties, so I just remind you that from tomorrow I will have that list of Members and Members in my seat in the Chamber of Deputies who will be calling for a meeting to voice distrust to the government again. It will be a faster process than this suffering here, when the newer the minister, the more anti-government he performs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u17	Thank you. Madam Secretary, with a point of order. Then the rapporteur with a factual point, then Minister Pilný with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u18	Mr Vice-President, Members, I just want to respond to the question about anti-discrimination. As regards the wordings already contained in the anti-discrimination law in our country, there is talk that no one should be discriminated against, for example, when they are admitted to employment on the basis of certain criteria. But that means in practice that, of course, criteria are different. If you have a job that needs some qualifications, some kind of education, or a certain number of years in practice, that's the first one. And only then would it be possible to apply some criteria, whether this person is a certain nationality or a certain color of the skin, or whether it's a man or a woman. So I really must say that these concerns linked to this amendment to the Labour Code are completely irrelevant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u19	I really am a man. Now, President Zavadil. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u20	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Well, of course I was surprised, too, by the Minister of Coalition's government's appearance. But one minister, no minister, that's what you have to say. So the government is acting as a whole, but in his defense, it must be said that he wasn't there at the time when the government agreed on something, so he probably doesn't even know what she agreed on, and that's why he might have stepped up. So much for defending him. But I don't mind if any of this House acts against any...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u21	It bothers me when they're having fun, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u22	So am I, so put them over their ears!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u23	So I'm gonna ask my colleagues to keep their voice down, or I'm gonna start naming them, and they're gonna be, as the Prime Minister said, forever on the screen. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u24	So I'll do it again. I don't mind if anyone from the right, from the left, from the center will attack in any way formal and fair any law, including the Labour Code. But please, some things you can't even know, you don't know, and you treat them like they're done. I'll start with the deal. I've said it here before. I've been a tripartite participant since 1994, almost from the very beginning. And in all this time, there's only been one deal. There's never been a deal! I guarantee it! There was no deal. Even now, there was no agreement that individual employers' or employment unions could not lobby in parliament the way it was done every year when the Labour Code was amended. This is a common thing. The only agreement that was sent here in this Parliament in 2007 under the reign of Petr Nečas, when we all signed in writing that this standard would look like that, and we asked this Parliament not to change anything about that standard. That was the only deal in 20 years. So let's not say things like there's a deal. If there's a deal, a pseudo deal, it's that they said, "Let's send the code as it is, to the government." That's the only thing. So, please, I just wanted to get off on this, and that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u25	That's all because your time is up, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, Minister Pilný. After him, Prime Minister Kučera. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course, I am not involved in tripartite negotiations. In this case, I will also lean on the resolution of the Economic Committee, which clearly stated that an agreement had been reached and that the agreement had been exceeded by those amendments and that it should not be exceeded, and called on the Government to do so. I wouldn't have any problems with the gnashing teeth to vote on the labor code in the sense of what has come to mind and where there has been a consensus. I don't know if I should call it a deal. Fortunately, I wasn't in tripartite. I would, of course, vote in favour of correcting the Labour Code. But there are a lot of amendments that are totally counterproductive to the fundamental consensus, so that makes me think that there is a whole new situation. I don't feel like a member of the opposition here, let alone here, because I don't see the right here in many cases. Just recall the TOP 09 vote on the question of employees in the Supervisory Boards. I am the Minister of Finance, I was chairman of the Economic Committee and I have to support the economy. If the carrier, which I think was accepted by businessmen with gnashing teeth, has been broken, then, of course, I must fight for the interests of the Czech economy - as Minister of Finance and as former Chairman of the Economic Committee. It has nothing to do with the opposition, it has nothing to do with any government breakdown. The situation has changed. We're in a new situation. I would support the original proposal, I cannot support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u27	Thank you. President Kučera and his point of order. After that, Mr Adamec, the President of the Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u28	I thank you for the floor and thank you for the words of my previous speaker, the Minister of Finance, in his somewhat twofold role, which he has not yet clearly clarified. I'd just like to follow up on the President's words here. He's Zavadil that there's never been an agreement. I would like to remind him again, once again, of the words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, who sits on his right, and she is his colleague from the same side. And here I quote - and I hope that Mr. Chairman Zavadil listens to me. I quote: "It has come to an agreement between the social partners that, in the form in which the amendment is now in, it can be referred to the government, with the fact that if there is still a topic in the legislative process on which both parties agree, it can be inserted with the support of the MPSV. But basically, we agreed that none of the social partners would abuse the legislative process and try to push something that did not have an agreement on into the Labour Code. That's the same promise I made for the government party." So many quotes from Mrs. Labor and Social Affairs Secretary Marksová. I do not, please, deny to any Member or Member the right to make any proposal here, even to interest groups or professional groups, to submit these amendments by means of Members, if they agree and identify with this, if they agree. This is the full right of all Members. However, let us admit that the agreement existed here and that now the Chairman of the Committee Zavadil is questioning it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u29	Thank you. Mr. Adamec. After that, Mr. Chairman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, my amazement continues, I must say. Mr Zavadil here said that one minister, no minister. If I look behind me, I might as well say that we can end the negotiations in no time, since he doesn't consider the minister a minister. I don't know, I really think it's a government proposal. Of course, the situation has changed, I agree with that. And I even support the opinion of the Minister of Finance. I support him personally because I totally agree with him. I've never had a different opinion than he does in this case. But it can't be said here in front of us that the government's proposal has an opponent in a member of the government at the House plenary. I think this needs to be discussed in the government, explained. How are you going to get a majority in this honourable House when you just have different opinions between you? I don't want to lecture anyone here, I don't want to tell you how this should work, but it's clear that you have to talk it out in government circles, and only then come before the House as one government. And that's what I miss so much right now. More or less, Minister Pilný has convinced me now that it's worse than I thought. I really do. So I have to say, let's find a way out of this stalemate because we're wasting our time here. The opposition will not vote for you. I'm saying this quite frankly. At least not ours, I don't know about the left one, maybe. But you don't want to pronounce this important standard through the House with opposition voices. What kind of coalition would you be? You can't be serious? Get a grip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u31	Thank you. Mr. Chairman Sklenák. After him, Madam Secretary with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u32	Thank you. In response to the two speeches made by Minister Pilný, I would like to say that his reasoning has no logic. He says that he would raise his hand for the original government version, but that amendments were made to it. Which amendments are you talking about? After all, we are in the general debate, no amendments have yet been read. And if you have put forward a motion for rejection, Minister, that will be voted on first, so you will not at all find out if the amendments have support. Perhaps they do not, and we would ultimately vote on the original government version in the form in which the government approved it and sent it to the House. About what my colleague Adamec says, how to get out of it. It is only by going through second reading that we will see who will sign up for the amendments and decide at third reading. In the end, the proposal may not be approved because, in the wording of the amendments adopted, it will be unacceptable for most of the House, but we will not find out if we do not get to the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u33	Thank you. Madam Secretary, then with Mrs Hnyková's factual remark, Minister Pilný and Mr Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u34	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament, I would like to say something similar to that of my previous speaker here, Mr President of the Assembly of Sklenák. We, if I'm not mistaken, are here at second reading for the third time. I don't see any reason why we just don't normally vote. We have different opinions here. The fact that various parties from the coalition voted on different laws, along with some part of the opposition, has been happening all along. This really isn't new. Let's vote. But we're not the ones blocking it. Let us put it into committees, where we will discuss the amendments, whatever they are, and then let us vote on them. If we all behave like this, we can have the code of business out of our hands by now, no matter what happens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u35	Thank you. Mrs Hnyková. After that, Minister Pilný, then Mr Adamec. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, my two previous speakers have already said what I really wanted to say through the President, Mr Adamc. I guess there's nothing else we can do until we get to the fact that everyone here is reading the amendments, and they're really going to decide the vote. We had other laws here that had far more amendments. I think we've reached a conclusion. I understand there are differences of opinion about employees and their rights. I take it all, but to delay it unnecessarily, and for the third time, as has already been said, to go back in second reading to the Labour Code, I think it's really undignified to the employees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u37	Thank you. Minister Pilný. After that, Mr. Adamec. Please, Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just try, 'cause I talk mostly here, or maybe even always in the name of logic and common sense. Of course, I know about the amendments. They were discussed on the economic committee that met up. These amendments have been quoted here for several hours. So it's not true that I'm shooting blindly into something that wasn't even filed here. I know these amendments thoroughly and the Economic Committee discussed them at its meeting. Logic's got it. If it wasn't for this, I wouldn't be acting the way I'm acting right now. But I am very familiar with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u39	Mr Adamec and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u40	Thank you, Mr President. When I look at the House plenary, in the morning when we were discussing the eight or nine farms here, there was a lot of media interest, there was a clapping outside, Mr. Böhnisch probably had a top part of his political career here in the square in the cages. But so be it. Now look at how many of us are here for such an important standard. [[The room is estimated to be at most one third of the Members.]] What's the interest? And by the way, you can say to yourself here, colleagues, what you want is that these bills always change with amendments. I agree with you. And I even learned a good lesson from Mr Kalousek's old matador when he asked us here: Do you know what a camel is? That's a horse that's going through a legislative process. But the situation is completely different now. She hasn't been here yet. Whatever these proposals were and were government, the government stood here as one man. Ladies forgive me, it's a saying. Of course, it also applies to women in government. So the situation is completely different now. So don't give us the benefit of the doubt that it's a government proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u41	Mr Vilímec and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u42	Mr Vice-President, I do not wish to be the complete arbiter of the dispute, who is right, whether the unions or employers, whether there has been an agreement or not. But perhaps it would be good to get acquainted with the position of the Association of Industry on the amendment of the Labour Code. This opinion was issued in February of this year, i.e. before the social committee discussed. Let me quote, I hope I can fit in those two minutes. The Confederation of Industry and Transport has not seen the reason for the amendment of the Labour Code from the very beginning. However, he approached the preparation and social dialogue responsibly and eventually accepted the compromise proposal that was made by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We have withdrawn several proposals ourselves in the course of the negotiations, in order to ensure that the least possible interference with the functioning environment is achieved in the end. We have been criticized for this approach by some members of the Union. The amendment agreed with the social partners was also discussed in tripartite on 6. 6. 2016. It is therefore not true, as the unions claim, that there is no written record of what has been agreed. However, the representatives of the trade unions announced, before the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, that the upcoming amendment would only be a medium for them, a means of pushing through many other amendments that they had not succeeded in pushing into the compromise proposal. If the Social Committee approves something more than it agreed on tripartite and before it was agreed with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, then we do not feel bound by the agreements we have made and we will address all Members of Parliament to reject all proposals. That is why we are joining the initiative to reject the amendment to the Labour Code. This is the opinion of the Association of Industry of February 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u43	Thank you, honourable Member. That was the last actual application so far. And now for the general debate, Mrs Jana Černochová, duly signed up. Let's go, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u44	The impossible has come true. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to apply to my amendments, which are registered under number 5966 in the system. Firstly, the amendment concerns remuneration for work, where, in the first part of the article, one proposal is inserted after point 54a, which is new: 54a V § 111 para. The second sentence of paragraph 3 is deleted. [[Roman Five]] Justification: This is a clarification of legislation. The provision provides for higher basic minimum wage rates so that at the same time the legislation contains a mandate for the government to adjust that minimum wage rate by regulation, while expressly adjusting that minimum wage rate itself. Such duplication is inadmissible. Moreover, the original specific amounts have been exceeded for several years. The other provision concerns part of the first Article one proposal, where the following points 62a and 62b are inserted after point 62b: 62a in Section 116, the words "average earnings' are replaced by the words "amounts laid down in Section 111 (1) of the Act. 3 as the basic minimum wage rate'. Recitals again: It is proposed to set the night work surcharge at a minimum rate derived from the minimum wage, as is the case with the labour surcharge in a difficult working environment. According to Section 117, it is not reasonable for this bonus to be set in relation to the average earnings, since it reflects the quantity, quality and complexity of the work carried out. The above works are work under the same conditions and this must also be expressed in the same surcharge, not in relation to the average earnings achieved. Only such a procedure will ensure equal treatment and will not be discriminatory. The possibility of negotiating the derogation above and the method of determining the bonus remains unaffected. Another amendment would concern 62b, where the second sentence of Section 117 reads: The definition of a difficult working environment for remuneration purposes according to the occurrence of factors which may adversely affect the worker's organism and the minimum amount of the surcharge is laid down by the Government Regulation. Again, I would like to state the reasons for this: to clarify the empowering provision and to lay down the basic criteria for defining the difficult working environment for legislation in the Government's regulation, also the follow-up to the amendment referred to in Section 111. A further amendment concerns the part of the first article of one proposal, where the following points 72a and 72b are inserted after point 72b, which would be new: 72a in Section 140, the words "average earnings' are replaced by the words "amounts laid down by this Act in Section 111 para. 3 as the basic minimum wage rate'. Reason: It is proposed to derive the lowest rate of pay from minimum wage, as is the case for, for example, a bonus for work in a difficult working environment pursuant to § 117. It is not justified that the remuneration for a work emergency be derived from the average earnings, as it reflects the amount, quality and complexity of the work done. The remuneration for a work emergency compensates for the limitation of the employee's right to deal with his leisure time, or rest period, i.e. it is a similar restriction, regardless of whether it is for example a doctor or a service technician. Only such setting will ensure equal treatment and will not be discriminatory. However, the possibility of negotiating a higher rate of pay for a work emergency is not affected. A further change would concern point 72b. In Article 143, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 the words "or employees residing abroad' shall be inserted after the words "abroad'. Recitals once again: The Act deals with § 143 in para. 2 salary or salary in an agreed foreign currency for employees with a place of work abroad. In practice, however, there are already common cases where an employee with a place of permanent residence in another state is employed under the law of the Czech Republic in its territory and requires the payment of wages in foreign currency, for example when employed in border areas. There is no reason that such requirements cannot be met under the agreement of both Contracting Parties. This is an unnecessary bureaucratic restriction. [[16.30 hours]] Another amendment still under the heading 5966 concerns compensation for property and non-property damage, where, in the first part of Article I of the proposal, the following points 127a to 127c are inserted after points 127a to 127c: 127a. In Article 257, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 the word "four-and-a-half" is replaced by the word "six-fold." Again a brief justification: In view of the average level of earnings achieved and the rising prices of the various installations, the relationship between the employer and the employee would have been settled in this area over many years if this change had been adopted. Another change concerns 127b. In accordance with Article 263 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 2 in the sentence of the first words "if the staff member has recognised his obligation to compensate for the damage' shall be deleted. Reason: This amendment is completely unnecessary. And the last point concerns 127c, when paragraph 3 of Section 263 is deleted, when again the brief reasoning is such that it is not justified that the employer is currently obliged to discuss with the trade union organisation the amount of compensation requested and the content of the agreement on how it is paid. The question of negotiation may be agreed with the employer in a collective agreement according to a principle that is not prohibited is permitted. Thank you for your attention and, of course, I will apply to these proposals in detail in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u45	Thank you, Madame. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Simeon Karamazov. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u46	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment to the Labour Code sets out a number of employer's duties related to the work of employees outside the employer's workplace. In particular, when working from home, inter alia, the obligation to cover the costs associated with such work. It's been said many times around here. In practice, it may be the cost of communicating with the employer, for example the price for Internet connection or mobile flat-rate. According to the proposed wording, the employer must pay the employees separately, and cannot negotiate them as part of the wage or remuneration of an out-of-work agreement. Such an adjustment denies the concept of work from home as a benefit provided by the employer of good will for the benefit of the employee. If employers are unable to agree on the inclusion of those costs in wages and if they have to pay them separately, their willingness to allow this method of work will undoubtedly fall. Ironically, those who pay the most for such an approach will be the workers who are supposed to protect that provision. In my amendment, therefore, I propose that employers have the opportunity to agree with employees that the costs of working from home will be included in the salary, salary or remuneration of an out-of-work agreement. Ideally, my second amendment is also closely linked to this amendment, which concerns agreements on non-employment work. I do not agree with the obligation for employees to register the beginning and end of the period of work, as this is an administrative waste that would reduce the attractiveness of these agreements. In practice, such a restriction would merely cause the clock to be reported only purposefully, often fictitiously. In brief, then, in addition to my third amendment concerning the new legislation on leave, I must mention in particular the fourth amendment in which I propose that an agreement on the temporary assignment to another employer be concluded at any time, not only six months after the conclusion of the employment relationship. Where an agreement with an employee is a necessary condition for a temporary assignment, the reason for the employer or the employee shall not be further restricted. I believe that this proposed regulation will help to achieve some reasonable flexibility in relations between employers and employees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u47	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly registered member is Mr Josef Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u48	Mr President, colleagues, the petitioner in the order of the 40th amendment to the Labour Code, which is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, notes in his explanatory report that the Labour Code is a legal standard in its complex, but, on the other hand, admits that there are some problems and shortcomings in practice that are desirable to be addressed. In this context, I would like to mention the problems of about 4,000 former miners who are unable to continue working underground due to an accident at work or occupational disease. In accordance with the Labour Code, these former miners receive compensation for loss of earnings, so-called The rent. You could say they're okay. The opposite is true. Most of these former miners, so-called The renters, they're in the employment register for two reasons. The first reason is that many of these decommissioned miners have a number of health restrictions. The second reason is that he's afraid to go to work. The current legislation is set up in such a way that if a disabled miner is in the register of the employment office, his compensation for loss of earnings is deducted from the amount of minimum wage. If he goes to work and then loses this job, then he will at the office of work from this so-called. The rents deduct the amount of his last earnings. Let me explain this to you in the following example. The miner Novák was eliminated from the mine on 1 January 2014 due to occupational disease at the age of 40. He worked 20 years in mining, and they calculated 24,000 in compensation for loss of earnings. Crowns. After his release from the mine, Horník Novák entered the register of the employment office on 2 January 2014. He has a medical disability, so he can't get a job. From his compensation for loss of earnings, which is CZK 24,000, he is deducted each month from the amount of minimum wage. In 2014, the amount of CZK 8,000 was deducted, but this year the amount of CZK 11,000 is deducted. Over the course of three years, the annual income of this affected miner decreased by CZK 36,000, which is already a significant impact on their family budgets for the families of these people. For this reason, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the submitted amendment to the Labour Code modified the wording of § 271 letter. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 3 by deducting the person concerned from the minimum wage of the amount applicable on the date of inclusion in the register. This adjustment will not reduce compensation for loss of earnings in the case of minimum wage growth, which is, of course, good news for disabled miners. Unfortunately, this legislative regulation will only solve one of the problems encountered by this group of disabled miners. The second big problem of this group, which I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, is that they are afraid to go to work. The big scarecrow for these former miners is that if they leave the employment office and find jobs in which they earn more than a minimum wage and then lose this job, they are deducted not from the minimum wage amount but from the amount of the last earnings achieved when they are re-registered at the employment office. So if, for example, our fictitious former miner goes to work as a driver and earns, for example, CZK 18,000, then after losing his job, his compensation for losing his earnings would not deduct the amount of minimum wage, but an amount of CZK 18,000. The compensation for the loss of earnings would then belong to him only in the amount of CZK 6,000, which our fictional miner Novák, who is entitled to payment of compensation for loss of earnings, is difficult for him. So, more or less, he has three options. The first option is that he stays at the employment office and has his 13,000 crowns a month of certainty, up to the age of 65. The second option is to look for work for minimum wage, which is also a problem in our mining region, because most jobs with minimum wage are specific and advantageous mostly for women. The third option is to look for work with higher earnings, but in this case, the person in question risks losing this job being reduced to the loss of earnings. In our case, not by 11,000, but by 18,000. So, according to the proverb "better sparrow in the hand than a pigeon on the roof," most of these affected miners choose the option first, that is to stay at the employment office. [[16.40 hours]] Our fictitious miner Novák decided to stay at the employment office for the option. He registered at the Labor Office in his 40s and will remain in the register of the Labour Office until his sixty-fiveth birthday. At 65 years old, however, the insurance company's obligation to pay compensation for loss of earnings will end and our Mr Novák should retire. Unfortunately, he will not be entitled to an old-age pension because he will not have the 35 years to be worked. So after the 65th year of his life, Mr Novák will live only on social benefits. The risk of falling into the social network after the 65th year of life is not just to our fictitious disabled miner Novák, but to thousands of other colleagues. It's a time bomb that, from my point of view, should be deactivated especially by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For this reason, I initiated the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Labour Legislation, Employment and Activities of the Labour Office, which took place on 2 March this year with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Industry and Trade and Trade and Trade Unions. At the end of the meeting of this subcommittee, a resolution was adopted in which the subcommittee asks the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and the Minister of Industry and Trade to prepare possible amendments to the solution to compensation for these specific groups. Thousands of disabled miners are waiting for proposals for solutions that should systemically solve the problems described by me. Therefore, we should not disappoint their legitimate expectations. I hope that the first step will be the approval of the § 271 letter. (b) which solves, at least at the moment, the deduction of the minimum wage at the rate of the acquisition of their rent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u49	I thank Mr Hájek. Another duly registered member is Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u50	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, fellow Members, despite the reservations I had at the outset, if we continue to discuss this bill, I have also prepared some amendments. And I have to say that I was led to discuss this on the Economic Committee when I became more interested in this bill, because it was more or less there for marginal reasons when I say it very much in quotation marks. And there I have already encountered problems that concerned home office, or in Czech speaking work at home, when it really surprised me. And I'd say I've seen so many obstacles there, I've become interested in the bill as a whole. And I'm not going to be here to develop what went down, what didn't go down. I think it is necessary for the House to decide what the final proposal will look like. But I have to say, I'm not happy that every new proposal in the Labour Code is, as it always is, if we don't open the proposals, it's worse. I'm a conservative, and I always say that every change usually gets worse. And there's no exception. And I think there's a lot of problems and the anti-flexible measures that are designed there. I only picked three, more or less. As three amendments, I'll tell you in a minute. And I think that colleagues will continue, those who are more concerned with this in committees that are more relevant to this. But I say, I was more interested in this as a reaction to the discussion in the Economic Committee, where I was really unpleasantly surprised by some provisions. Now let's see my three amendments. For one thing, it concerns top management staff. The idea may be good, but the problem is, we don't just have big companies here. There are even smaller companies where it can cause problems, the basic wage of these managers. So I proposed an amendment that has two options. One of them is such that it reduces, respectively. The first one... Yes, it reduces 75 grand to 60 grand, which, of course, may seem very little to someone. And I agree with that. But take it from my side as an attempt to be helpful. And the other one is completely dumping that amount and leaving it to the employer. There's a logic to it. They're not just good years, years of profit, when the economy is growing. There are times worse when this can really cause a serious problem for the employer. I have to say that even here I see it as a balanced matter that needs to be worked out this way, because if the Labour Code is to work and it has, I would say, to have the qualities that support business in the Czech Republic, employment in the Czech Republic, then the law must really be proposed as balanced as possible from all sides. So this is the first amendment that I will read later in the detailed debate. Then I have a business here that concerns the inspection of work. And here I have to say, I also have an alternative solution. There are draconian increases in fines. I don't know, I guess that's the trend of putting tickets everywhere these days. High fines. And then the question is, what's it gonna do to the employers? I understand that sometimes it is necessary to check that an employee behaves according to the employee's rules, but I keep saying that a fine is meant to have an educational character. Now I've learned from the bill that it's supposed to have a deterrent character. Well, the deterrent character can also be very easily liquidated. So that's why I'm suggesting that some sanctions either be completely discharged and, if necessary, increase where the amounts are in the amount of 200 grand, to 400 grand. Exactly. I won't hold you back now. I'll read that to you in a detailed debate. And, of course, there are modifications to the offenses so that they are judged, I would say, correctly, unambiguously and to a reasonable extent. I think it's very important. And the third type of amendment concerns working time and rest periods. And here's why I'm making a statement. Government proposal... that's what I call a government proposal, listen carefully. The government proposal is intended to adjust a minimum period of two days for a staff member to be acquainted with a change in the work schedule, even in cases where the employer and the employee agree on a different date than the standard 14 days in advance... [[Restlessness in the room. The speaker is silent.]] I'll wait... In some operations... Well, I see I'll read it again. The third series of amendments concerns working time and rest periods. In fact, the government proposal is intended to adjust a minimum period of two days for a staff member to be familiar with a change in the work schedule in case the employer and employee agree on a different date than the standard 14 days in advance... I'm on the left, so I'd rather listen. We're about to end our term of office, and some of you may be employees again, and it'll come in handy. Let's do it again! Working hours and rest periods. I can read to you what's going on. In Part 1 of Article one of the proposals, point 29 is deleted. The reasons for this proposal. The government proposal is intended to adjust a minimum period of two days for a staff member to be acquainted with a change in the work schedule, even in cases where the employer and the employee agree on a different date than the standard 14 days in advance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u51	I'm very sorry. Colleagues, please transfer their calls to the lobby, and I'll ask my colleague to proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u52	Thank you, Mr President. I'll keep going. I'm just starting to grow up here 'cause it's kind of stuffy in here. However, greater flexibility is needed in some operations such as transport, energy. For example, in the case of various emergency situations, accidents, disasters or in the case of continuous operations. [[16.50 hours]] Staff members are already sufficiently protected by the fact that, in the case of a period of less than 14 days, knowledge of the schedule of working time or its amendment is only possible on the basis of an agreement, that is to say, with their agreement. I really consider this point to be redundant, and I propose that it be dismissed by this amendment. And then there's the second part of this amendment. In Part One, the following point 44A is inserted after point 44a: The employer is obliged to ensure that the worker working at night is examined by the labour service provider in cases and under the conditions laid down for the occupational services by a special law. This law means Law No. 373/2011 Coll., on Specific Health Services, as amended. It is that night work is one of the safety risk factors that can affect the health fitness to work, and collectively these factors are mentioned in the implementing legislation, in the Act on specific health services. The amendment of the Labour Code is proposed in Section 64 para. In the case of an employer's obligation to provide medical examinations for workers working at night, reference shall be made to the procedure under the Act on specific health services. Working-medical examinations related to night work shall be defined in the implementing decree stating that their periodicity will be set for two years. The reimbursement of the entrance medical examination in connection with night work will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Section 59 of Law No. 373/2011 Sb. The proposed regulation is part of the government amendment to the Act on Specific Health Services, House Press No. 874, Part Three, Article 4, point 2. However, the legislative procedure of this press has been considerably delayed and it is not certain whether it will be completed in time, but it should be according to this press. Ladies and gentlemen, I have introduced you very briefly to my amendments. I am glad that you listened to me and that I could read some of the provisions three times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u53	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly registered member is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, allow me, too, to say or comment on some parts of the proposed amendments to the Labour Code, a document that concerns really many areas and should in a balanced way protect not only employees but also employers. And I think that the simpler this law will be, the easier it will be to keep it, and the more flexible it will be, the better it will be for people on the labour market. I have taken the liberty of proposing a few amendments, which I would only briefly explain, and then comment on them in detail in the detailed debate. First, to House Document No 5954, which is an amendment law, where it is repealed in one part, in Section 38 paragraph. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. [[Proposal]] It is the employer's duty that such a report should be legally submitted by every employer to a trade union organisation. I think it is already a relic of the past, that it is a report that, if it is not, because trade unions meet regularly with the management of the company and discuss employment issues, there is no need for such a thing to be strictly governed by law. I think it's too much adjustment, and at this time, it's really no longer justified. It is about the adoption of the regulation already enshrined in the long-determined Act No. 37/1959 Coll., where the reporting of possible reports should now be the subject of mutual agreement between both parties, thus employers and possibly trade unions representing employees. The next proposal I made is the repeal of Section 99, which concerns working time, overtime, the possibility of demanding work on days of work rest and night work with regard to safety and health protection at work, because it is an adjustment which I think no longer needs to be regulated by law. Those measures in the field of mass work and overtime, the possibility of requiring work on days of work rest and night work with regard to safety and health at work are entirely within the competence of the employer, who is obliged to set them up and implement them in accordance with labour legislation and legislation and to discuss them with the trade union organisation. Nothing changes about this fact. The negotiation of those measures may be agreed by the trade unions with the employer in collective agreements and, where appropriate, the general arrangements for discussing matters with trade unions under the principle that is not prohibited are permitted. It is dealt with in § 287 para. 2 e.g. point (g). My next proposal concerns the codecision of the trade union organisation on the secondment of employees to the funeral of a co-worker. I propose that Article 199 (2) (a) of the EC Treaty be amended accordingly. The words "including any co-decision of a trade union organisation on the secondment of employees to a co-worker's funeral" were deleted. I think that this is just as much a surviving legislation in the area of regulating other important personal obstacles to work. On the employee's side, this is a situation which can definitely be dealt with by mutual agreement between the employer and the trade union organisation, or individually with employees. I'm sure you've met with such a sad matter. I don't know an employer who wouldn't allow his colleagues from work to participate in this sad event, possibly one of their colleagues, who they worked with in the past, even if they weren't already in that employment relationship, was a long-term employee. I know a lot of cases where the employer has done this. On the contrary, I do not know the situation that an employer would not allow such a thing, regardless of the fact that such a problem can be specifically regulated by a collective agreement and there is no need to have such precise legal measures. I think it's completely redundant. In addition, I propose that Article 203 (2) (b) of the EC Treaty be amended accordingly. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and (c) have been repealed and the existing points (d) to (l) have been newly designated as (b) to (j) while I must say that the requirements of ILO Convention No. 135 on the protection of workers' representatives in the company and the concessions to be granted to them are to the maximum extent covered by § 203 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and also § 277. [[17,00 hours]] As regards the fulfilment of Convention No 140 on paid study leave, the proposed adjustment is clearly beyond the requirement. It is about adopting an obsolete regulation, also in the context of the cited Convention. It is, in my opinion, a non-systemic adjustment because, from the whole range of education, only trade union education prefers. Moreover, the proposed regulation would create an inequality between employees and employers in terms of whether or not they operate in trade unions. From the point of view of caring for the qualifications of employees, it is now more important for employers to ensure the acquisition, improvement and adaptation of the professional qualifications needed to perform the work, which is what I quote part of the convention. In this question, the bill leaves logically for the employer's assessment of whether and to what extent it provides paid leave to individual employees and does not set any minimum limits for the provision of paid leave. In the context of the fulfilment of the contractual principle and of the principle that is not prohibited, nothing is therefore allowed to prevent specific conditions for participation in trade union education from being agreed in a properly negotiated collective agreement. The further amendment I propose concerns paragraph 106a of § 217 para. In the first sentence, where the first words "with the prior approval of the trade union organisation and the staff board' are replaced by the words "after consultation with the trade union organisation and the staff board'. The proposal takes over the current and I think that in practice, the surviving non-life-free legislation and there is absolutely no reason for the employer to be able to determine the duration of the employee's leave only subject to the prior agreement of the relevant trade union organisation. Another proposal that I have sent to the system is to amend point 111a, § 220, which I propose to cancel, including the title. The reason for this is that the employer may determine, in agreement with the trade union organisation, that this is necessary for operational reasons. It's a surviving binding clause. Agreements may be other, e.g. lack of sales of production, or we can certainly find a lot of other reasons for which this can be done. This is an excess adjustment because the use of leave is determined by the provisions of Section 217. This is another example, I would say unnecessary administration, which we put artificially into maintained union approvals, which, as a result, creates inequality between employers in terms of the employment of trade unions with the employer. Another change that I have introduced into the system and I propose in the amendment to the Labour Code concerns paragraph 146a, where in Section 348 I propose to repeal paragraph 3. The proposed regulation concerns the employer in an agreement with the trade union organisation and its determination of whether it is an unforgivable absence of work or not. I think that the proposed amendment is no longer justified. If obstacles are defined in this law on the part of an employee for whom he does not have to do work and is excused from it, then I think it is completely pointless for the employer to determine, in agreement with the trade union organization, whether or not to miss work with the employee or not. Whether this is an unforgivable absence of work is entirely within the competence of the employer, who must stick to the strictly relevant provisions in this, and discussing with the unions, I think that doesn't change anything. There is just another bureaucratic burden on the entire functioning of the labour market. The adjustment would also be questionable from the point of view of employees who are not organized by the trade union and would not wish to be familiar with this personal matter and possibly discussed by anyone else. It's a relic, definitely a relic of the past. The further proposal that I put into the system to amend the Labour Code concerns qualification agreements, since paragraph 116a of Section 234 para. 1 is read: "If an employer enters into a qualification agreement with an employee in connection with an increase in qualifications, the staff member may not, without a serious reason, terminate the qualification. The qualification agreement shall include, in particular, the employer's obligation to enable employees to increase their qualifications and the obligation of the employee to fulfil their qualifications properly and to remain at the employer's place of employment for an agreed period of time, but not more than five years, or to pay the employer the costs associated with the increase in qualifications incurred by the employer in order to increase the qualifications of the employee, even if the employee terminates the employment relationship or, without serious reason, terminates the increase in qualifications before the increase in qualifications. The employee's obligation to remain in employment begins from the increase in qualifications.' A point 116b, § 134 para. 3 the dot at the end of point (c) shall be replaced by the comma and the words "opportunity' shall be added after the word "employment'. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: Article 2 is replaced by the following: Exchange rate and reimbursement of study costs, e.g. MBA, or you can put any other type of education in parentheses, is not only very expensive financially, but is often required to pay it in advance. It is also necessary to involve employees financially in order to have an interest in ending the study. The link to termination of employment is insufficient to motivate employers to invest in employee education. In addition, applicants for employment may also be required to cover the costs of retraining if they terminate it without serious reasons. There is no reason for the employer not to be able to have this right vis-à-vis the employee. I myself have to confirm that I know this from practice that, in the case of, for example, our regional hospitals, the employer often participates in millions of sums to finance the increase in doctoral qualifications, finance them with everything related to new certifications, and these are amounts often approaching a million crowns. It is logical that if an employer pays such amounts and allows the employer to raise his qualifications for the employer's money, it is logical that the employer will want some compensation if the employee either leaves soon or has no interest in completing the study. The last proposal I made in the framework of the amendment to the Labour Code is House Document No 5953 and concerns work at sea. You may be surprised, those of you who do not know that the Czech Republic has been significantly involved in research work in the marine region since 1993 on the exploration of the seabed in the Clarion - Clipperton region. He even participates in research into the seabed, which is several times larger than the territory of the Czech Republic, and it is not few people who would work in this area. They, too, would deserve, given their working conditions, to meet them in some parts of the work code. [[17.10 hours]] I will not read the whole amendment in detail here, because it concerns a number of points, so that it is conceived comprehensively, and a number of paragraphs, § 78, § 90, § 91 and § 92, so I will not read it in detail, because it would be a long time and I would read a page and a half here. Just a little reason for this matter. According to Article 2 (8) of Directive 2003 of the European Community, on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, "work at sea' is "work carried out mainly on or linked to equipment directly or indirectly to the exploration, mining or quarrying of mineral resources, including hydrocarbons and diving in connection with such activities, carried out from offshore installations or from vessels'. [[including drilling equipment]] And for these workers, Article 17 provides for exceptions to the rules on the allocation of shifts and rest periods. Surprisingly, even in the Czech Republic, as I have already said, there are employees who, although temporarily, work on oil platforms, such as in the implementation of client software, but also in other cases, and this adjustment can therefore immediately touch them. The operation on these platforms usually allows transport to and from the platform in two to three weeks tours. Allowing exemptions from the general regulation for these employees would help both employers and employees themselves in principle. There would be a shorter stay in some very inhospitable conditions, a shorter work trip, and thus a shorter separation from the family and so on. This is specifically the possibility of shortening these employees' rest between two shifts, meant continuous daily rest, up to 8 hours of 24 hours a day, which concerns § 90 para. 2. The possibility to extend the period for granting a compensatory leave for a reduced rest by analogy to seasonal work in agriculture, § 90 letter. a). Possibility of ordering these employees to work on days of work rest, which concerns § 91 para. 3. And the possibility of agreeing with the employee, shortening the continuous rest of the week so that it is subsequently compensated by a longer rest in the following three weeks, which concerns § 92 para. Article 4 (1) (a) a). I note that all the proposed amendments comply with Article 17 of Directive 2003/88/EC. There is nothing that goes beyond the framework of European perception of legislation, and I think it would be worth it to people who are very far away from us from our point of view and do not live on land, but spend their important part of working life at sea - to have a chance to stay with families longer on the condition that we adjust some of the unnecessary provisions of the Labour Code so that it can be used in practice. I think they themselves would appreciate this adjustment. Thank you for your attention and I will read all the specific proposals in the detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u55	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. Good afternoon, honourable Members. We will continue the debate. In front of my colleague Kořenek, the rapporteur will exercise his right of priority, so I will ask him to be patient. My colleague Zavadil, here's a note that he applied, but before him, a colleague Černochová with a factual remark. So, a factual remark from my colleague, Černochová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Given the empty benches behind me, in front of me, next to me on the left, next to me on the right, I think, just like the rest of you, I feel that this standard has no chance of negotiating today. I think we should ask, and some of my previous speakers have said something like that here, ask the members of the government coalition to either withdraw this proposal, agree within the government coalition. I think that we have enough of the standards that we still have ahead of us, which are worth it, and there is agreement to discuss them by the end of the parliamentary term. We're really dealing with something here that doesn't stand a chance in this House. And we all feel that way. Do we really want to waste time here, energy, money? I propose that this item be interrupted by September 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u57	That's a nice procedural proposal. I've got to figure out it's not more than 120 days. Of course, I will vote on this procedural proposal without debate. I'm gonna check you all out first, ask you for a new registration. I'm gonna sing. And once the number of entries is settled, I'm going to vote on it. [[Insufficient concession. Members are coming to the ballroom.]] I, of course, have to wait until the call for a procedural vote is needed. [[It's a delay.]] Of course, I will ask the heads of government MPs to increase their activity in securing their colleagues. [[Thevora has not yet been reached.]] [[17.20 hours]] I can, of course, interrupt the negotiations. Before I do so, I will, of course, want to speak to the presidents of the MPs, because it is, albeit with certain peripeties, a point of the programme that was agreed firmly on Tuesday, so, of course, I understand that the MPs were counting on it. Well, I'd like to ask the president of the MPs to come to me for a minute. [[The Presidents of the MPs shall consult the President.]] [[The hearing shall be suspended from 17.21 to 17.29 hours.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in agreement with the President of the Members' Clubs, I am interrupting negotiations before the 18th hour. We'll meet in the grémia room and discuss how to proceed. You have half an hour to get us to make a serious decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue the adjourned negotiations by reading first the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Since 17.30 he apologizes for health reasons Vojtěch Adam, Mr Herbert Pavera from 17.30, from 17. 30 apologizes until the end of the sitting day, Martin Komárek, from 17.15 to Mrs Margita Balaštíková for work reasons, and Mr Milan Šarapatka also for work reasons until the end of the sitting day. We have reached the necessary quorum to discuss the procedural proposal for the interruption of the present paragraph No. 22, print 903, Labour Code, by September of this year, submitted by Mrs Jana Černochová. We'll decide on it in the number 297 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour of... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I declare this vote number 297 misguided. I'll check you all out. I am going to ask you for a new registration, and I am going to decide on this proposal in the number 298, vote that I have launched, and I am asking who is in favour of the interruption by September. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 298, from 96 for 16, against 72. The motion was not accepted. Prior to the rapporteur Zavadil, the chairman of the ANO club Jaroslav Faltýnek is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u59	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me to make a procedural motion to interrupt this point until the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-019-022.u60	Okay, thank you. Another procedural proposal, which we will decide in the vote number 299, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of this interruption. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote of order number 299, of the 104 Members present for 63, against 30. The motion was accepted. It is my duty to suspend the negotiation of point No. 22, the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Labour Code, with the fact that I am interrupting the general debate when Jaroslav Zavadil is the first rapporteur with priority rights. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and I therefore interrupt paragraph 22. According to the approved agenda, we will now consider the item:
