ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u1	156. Mr jeroný Tejc's proposal and others for the law amending Act No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, and other related laws, and Act No. 90/2012 Coll., on Commercial Companies and Cooperatives (Company Corporations Act) /German Press 920/ - First Reading The Government's position was delivered as Parliament's press 920/1. prosit have Mr Jeroným Tejc present the motion put forward by the representatives of the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me, as the Vice-President has already said, speak very briefly about the parliamentary bill tabled by a group of Members across the political spectrum. I expect that discussing this bill would not have to create great emotions. And I would like us to agree in the House, for example, three-quarters of the adjustments that are reasonable, which are in favour of both the people who live in the apartments in the community of unit owners and, of course, for those who live in housing cooperatives. We were trying to make sure that the changes to the Civil Code, which had been approved, despite my disapproval, were relatively minimal in order to be economical and to make it easier for people living in these apartments. Those who manage these apartments and I'll introduce some of them. Firstly, we simplify the way in which the amendments to the declarations are approved. It's a technical thing. We also make it clear that when transferring ownership to the unit, i.e. apartments in SVJ, the acquirer transfers the debts of the transferor related to the management of the house and the property to the person responsible. To put it simply, it won't happen that someone owes SVJ, then sells the unit, gets the money, and the debt to SVJ remains and has to enforce it on the original owner, and the new owner who bought this apartment doesn't have any liability at the time. Money is often gone and it is not possible to recover it and therefore all the others who have not caused it are involved in the debt repayment. We are also trying to facilitate the financing of housing cooperative loans. Today, it is not possible for a debt to be transferred due to the modernisation and repair of the house to be tied to the housing cooperative in order to be transferred to the community of owners of the units that have been created. We want to make it possible, however, for everyone's approval. That is to say, 100 percent of those involved so that there is no credit transfer at a time when all 100 percent of those concerned disagree. We also simplify the approval of the statutes in the community of owners. Unfortunately, there is a problem with the need to obtain 100% consent, which is technically impossible. In the case of hundreds or thousands of flats, and I think it is a matter to consider, therefore, whether not to modify this matter and not to put in a qualified majority. We're proposing a majority. However, as I have spoken to a number of colleagues, I think it would be worth the most being qualified. The last is the question of convening member meetings. There's no need for a ten-by-ten housing cooperative to have a website. So unless the statutes provide otherwise and the site doesn't have it, it will be able to convene the meeting in a normal manner, a notice on the board. Well, these are the basic things that this law is talking about. This week there was still information and speculation about whether the law in the planned establishment of the pre-emptive right from 1. 1. 2018 expects that there are people who have garage parking spaces that are separate. They don't belong to individual apartments. However, if these apartments are sold without these garage stands, they lose value. That proposal, which was approved by Mr Chvojka's proposal and subsequently by the Constitutional Legal Committee, can complicate the situation on the one hand. On the other hand, the situation is no longer technically unsolvable under the current regulation by means of ancillary property, but in order to simplify the situation to all those who want it, it is possible to make an adjustment and, if it is agreed, to introduce a rule that the pre-emptive right will not apply to the common premises in the house which are intended for a specific purpose. I mean, for example, garage stands. It's a matter of debate that would take place on the constitutionally legal committee, and I don't want to put it in depth here at the moment, so we don't hold you back. These are the basic reasons for submitting this bill. And in the general debate, I would like to propose that this item be discussed not only by the constitutionally legal committee, but also by the Committee on Public Administration. My colleagues and I have talked about this and also to reduce the deadline to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u3	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Jan Farský. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues. This House press has been here since September 2016, when it was presented by a group of Members. The government then commented on it on 25 October, respectively. On 24 October, at its meeting and its position on it, it is disagreeable. Disadvantage is five points. And when I sum them up after the proposal has been presented, he says that he appreciates the efforts of the petitioners to address the current problems arising from the application of the new legislation, but that at the same time he cannot give his consent because it is only partial changes and does not solve all the problems of the existing legislation. [[12.30 hours]] That it is therefore necessary to go in the form of a comprehensive adjustment in order to avoid non-conceptional interference and repeated entry into the core legal material, which the Civil Code certainly is. It also says that such an adjustment should be preceded by a wide range of expert discussions and should not be presented as such ad hoc. This is also mentioned in House Press 642, which was already approved in the meantime, which dealt with a similar material and expressed and changed access to co-ownership. It is also mentioned that the Ministry of Justice has until the end of 2017 to submit a co-ownership question and a community of owners of the units, its solution in a comprehensive way that would correct all the previously announced and mentioned problems. Furthermore, the Government notes that it does not consider it appropriate in the light of the protection of the rights acquired in good faith to enter into this, especially in the meantime, when the pre-emptive right has been restricted until it has been abolished -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u5	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering your speech, but the level of noise in the room is very high, so I'll ask you, colleagues and colleagues, if you need to discuss it, to take you to the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u6	Thank you. I'm done. In conclusion, he notes that the good faith of those legitimate owners and their expectations that have passed through the passing time could be threatened and that this adjustment is incomplete, inaccurate and contradictory. For this reason, the Government has expressed a dissenting position on this parliamentary bill, the House of Press 920.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u7	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application from Mrs Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u8	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, my dear colleagues, I will now speak not only as a lawyer and say someone who has also dealt with civil law in the Chamber of Deputies for a long time, but also since 1994, the chairman of the housing cooperative, where I am, to my surprise, sometimes kind, sometimes unlovable, re-elected. It's supposed to be here. It is therefore appropriate to say that I have been through all, including legislative, periods, and the current situation requires change. If you have listened to the government's position negative, I represent here really those who are currently confronted with considerable problems in the practical operation of housing cooperatives and the community of homeowners. I live at a time where this community also exists and we are actually the administrator of the community, so from both perspectives of these legal forms of residential property I have practical experience, not just the legal ones. I very much welcome the novel. It will make it easier for thousands, not only the functionaries of housing cooperatives and the community owners of housing units, but also for ordinary cooperatives to co-operate within the housing fund that belongs to them or manage them. And to rely on the fact that by the end of 2017 after the new elections, the first thing that the government will do as a priority will address this agenda is already completely illusory after my political experience, and in some ways I do not understand this argument. I myself will, of course, vote in favour of this amendment. As far as pre-emptive law is concerned, we still have to discuss this in the constitutionally legal committee if you allow us to deal with this material in committees. Of course, there may not be a consensus there, but as far as the centre of gravity of this amendment is concerned, I am clearly in favour and I beg you to join the petitioners, I am not the petitioner to send this proposal further into the legislative process in the interests of the cooperative and the owners of the housing units. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u9	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Benda. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u10	Mr Vice-President, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, I will also try to be very brief. I am also chairman of the members' association, so I welcome that something like this is being presented. I think we've been discussing this on the floor of the constitutionally legal committee for quite a long time. It is a pity, of course, that the government will give, before a considerable time, an opinion in which it will say, do not do it, we will prepare it and, as usual, will not prepare anything at all. Unfortunately, this is a slightly unfortunate situation, whether Minister Pelikán or Minister Šlechtová, whose competence includes both the civil code and the housing cooperative, that there is really nothing done and that the obvious problems, and I know that there are a lot of then partial questions on which there can be different opinions and where it probably deserves some longer discussion. But the obvious problems just don't work out. At the same time, I just wanted to say to the translator, who was a big fan of re-establishing the pre-emption law. Now it turns out at the garage stands that this may be a potential problem, that it would be almost easiest if we returned to the original concept of the approved amendment to the Civil Code, what the petitioner had pushed into the government amendment, was re-released. They said that pre-emptive property law doesn't exist, it hasn't come into effect yet, so nothing would happen at all, and we should be resolved and we wouldn't have to think about the garage stand. I will certainly propose this at the meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee, but what will happen in this House. Since last time it was 80:80 and now we're walking around here about hundreds, so it can all be quite fun and interesting. Otherwise, I suggest we approve it and let it go through the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u11	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. Please, Counselor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u12	I am, of course, looking forward to the debate on pre-emptive law, but what I am proposing at the moment is that we reduce the deadline to 30 days. If that deadline was too long for the committees to discuss this matter, the press would not be included in the House's meeting. However, with regard to the ending period, I would recommend that we try to do so. I would also suggest that, although I do not want to blow my colleagues from the Public Administration Committee into what they include and do not include, but I know that we have discussed it with them, so if the House's will is such as to discuss it with this committee, I would suggest and recommend it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-009-156.u13	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee? I don't see the proposition. I'm registering the check-out request. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a committee of guarantee, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 565, registered 94 Members and Members, for proposal 87, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but, for the sake of order, I repeat that in the general debate, a proposal was made at the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and I ask whether there is yet another proposal for the commandments to the committees. [[12.40 hours]] I don't see a suggestion. In that case, I will put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the commandment of this motion by the Public Administration Committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 566, registered 96 Members and Members, for proposal 89, against no one. I note that we have ordered this proposal to the Public Administration Committee. The last proposal that was made is a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. I begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the motion to shorten the deadline for 30 days, i.e. 30 days, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 567, registered 98 Members, for proposal 66, against 3. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
