ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u1	36. Government bill amending Act No. 254/2001 Coll., on waters and amending certain laws (water law), as amended, and Act No. 388/1991 Coll., on the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 930/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Richard Brabec, the present Minister of the Environment, will present the proposal. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u2	So, thank you for the third time, Mr President, and it is possible that today will be the last time. The proposal for this amendment contains several points. In particular, it corrects the lack of implementation of the Water Framework Directive, in particular paragraph 1. 4.7, by anchoring the method of granting exemptions by the Water Authority in the event that the implementation of the project deteriorates the state of the water body of surface or groundwater. The proposal thus enables the water authorities concerned to assess, in two stages, whether the project under assessment will not deteriorate the state of the water department concerned. The proposal below also meets some of the requirements of the so-called an eco-audit, i.e. from Government Order No 72 of 30 January 2013. Here, in particular, there is a significant restriction on the administration in the field of fees, when the proposal for an amendment waives the obligation to submit fee reports on both types of charges, so-called. cancellation of advances. The obligation to report data via the electronic reporting system was also limited, so-called ISPOP, except for resources with permitted discharges of more than 6,000 m3 of waste water per calendar year, which will significantly affect the reduction of administration in tens of thousands of small sources of pollution, which are mostly municipalities below 100 inhabitants and small domestic sewage treatment plants. One of the other changes the proposal brings is also the transfer of the administration of charges for collected amounts of groundwater and charges for discharge of waste water into surface waters from the Czech Environmental Inspection to the State Environmental Fund of the Czech Republic and the change of the administration system from administrative to tax rules. The Fund thus becomes the administrator of fees within the meaning of the tax rules. In addition to simplifying the system, which results from application of the tax rules instead of the current administrative order and from centralization of the whole process, it is also positive to reduce the administrative burden of the Czech environmental inspection, which is and should be primarily a body of control. Finally, it is also proposed to amend the provisions relating to waste water, in particular to clarify the definition of waste water and waste water disposal methods under the Water Act, including clarification of the way waste water is disposed of and accumulated in so-called. Drainless pits. This definition is a necessary response to the last amendment to the Waste Act, which, on the basis of a request from the European Commission, introduces the residual competence of this Act to waste water management, which is not regulated by other component laws. Furthermore, there is a change in the provisions relating to geological work related to the interference with the land. The proposed regulation gives the water authorities the opportunity to assess the risk of possible impact on the conditions before the geological work associated with the intervention into the land is carried out. There is also a change in the provisions on flood protection and flood protection. In order to protect against floods, it is proposed to include provisions in the wording of the Water Act which, in justified cases, prevent the re- or re-built of flood zones, where appropriate increase the awareness of citizens and business entities of the level of flood risk. Certain penalty provisions and issues relating to water surveillance are also regulated. Here too, given that on 11 January 2017, the European Commission launched the so-called "European Commission'. The EU Pilot, which concerns the transposition of the directive into the Czech legal order, would like to ask you to shorten the discussions in the committees to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Karel Tureček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I think the Minister has described the purpose of the proposed amendment to the water law. I stress that the most important purpose of this amendment is to transfer the management of charges for collected amounts of groundwater and charges for discharge of waste water into surface waters. I would also like to stress that the Organisational Committee has proposed an environmental committee as a guarantee committee. I would also like to propose an agricultural committee for discussion, because water law falls within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Jan Zahradník first came forward. I'm filing an application from Mr. Kučera's diaper. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u6	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a law that raised quite a considerable emotion some time ago, because it had one of the passages that had just increased the charges for groundwater collection. But this passage was finally released from the design, so that means nobody sits here at the gallery, as I noticed. Otherwise, there'd probably be a much bigger turnout, because it was quite controversial. However, we still have a number of things left to talk about here. The Minister spoke of the approval of the Water Authority, among other things. also with works that may affect water conditions, geological work associated with the interference with the land and the subsequent use of research work for the construction and removal of groundwater or for drilling for the use of energy potential. Here we have to say that a whole range of people use reconnaissance wells to either set up wells or heat pumps in their place. In my opinion, this paragraph will unite the system, people who still use it illegally or without any permission, so they will have their things in order. The truth is that there can be an increase in drilling, estimated in units of thousands of crowns. [[15.50 hours]] What's another thing, it's called. assessment of the possibility of deterioration of the condition by the intention of the water bodies concerned. Before granting consent, the Water Authority shall assess the possibility of worsening the good condition or good ecological potential by the intention of the department concerned. The minister here used the word eco-audit. In this way, the Water Authority will enter into the building authorisation. Now I wonder if we just happened to approve the building bill after a rather dramatic discussion and voting on about 300 amendments - and now here we are suddenly introducing another institution entering into building approval. Could this not have been taken into account in the construction law and discussed in the whole context of this complex material, which has employed a number of comment points and which has put such pressure on the amendments? Thus, the administrative burden of water law authorities is increasing and, of course, problems arise for builders. Moreover, any new authority of an official concerning the approval of a building has, one way or another, a certain corrupt potential. So I don't think we should have dealt with the issue of building authorisation separately, but we should have included it in some way in the complex amendment to the construction law, which we discussed here this morning. Then there is Section 38, which refers to the accumulation of waste water in the sewer-free pits, the obligation to ensure disposal by transport to the treatment plant and to the call of the water authority or inspection to provide evidence of the removal of waste water in the last two calendar years. This is, in my opinion, the most problematic point of the novel. The exception is deleted that precipitation water from rain separators is not considered as waste water. The question is whether we have the capacity to clean up all the sewage. In particular, for smaller municipalities which do not have their own sewerage and where the social status of citizens is lower, an increase in waste water disposal prices can, of course, mean a negative impact on their social situation. And the last point I made is about changing the charging point. Up to now, it has been the administrator of the waste water discharge fee Czech environmental inspection, now it is being transferred to the State Environmental Fund. The Minister argues that there is a burdening agenda for the Czech Environmental Inspection, and eventually the money will end up with the State Environmental Fund. But isn't it also possible to look for the truth that the State Environmental Fund, which has a rather demanding agenda, is the fund's high operating costs, so is it looking for some sources of income? Since it is possible that, after 2020, or 2022 with a new programming period, revenues from European sources for the State Environmental Fund may be significantly reduced, which could mean that there will be some doubt about the eligibility of this fund. So even here, we need to think about this and look for some other reasons why we are not making a whole lot of sense at first sight, transferring the fee administrator from the Czech Inspectorate to the State Environmental Fund. Once again, I recommend to my colleagues that we do not prevent this law from being released into second reading, but rather I will look for ways to take some of these comments into account when submitting an amendment at second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now, with priority rights, the chairman of the TOP 09 Club, Mr.Michal Kučera, who is premiered by me as chairman, so I apologize to him for not giving him the floor just moments ago.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u8	Thank you for the floor. I think I am very pleased to hear the words of my previous speaker, Mr Zahradník. I shouldn't have jumped ahead of him in any way, especially when only two of us got off. Ladies and gentlemen, before us is an amendment to the Water Act, which shines on the board with the designation Water Law - EU. It is not quite true, because there is no mere transposition of European standards, but of course there are a number of changes that we are adding to the so-called. by national means. However, it is just a comment to realise that the scale of changes that are in the law of water is likely to be greater. I come up with one of those. I sincerely admit that I will try to find wider support for her if she is, and then I will embody her in some amendment that I believe will benefit our municipalities. This is Section 67, which refers to restrictions in flood areas. I am concerned - and those of us who are also municipal representatives in the municipalities remember, and especially those who are on the banks of the rivers, remember that in recent years the so-called conversion has taken place. active flood zones. What happened was that the active flood zones suddenly began to interfere with the territory of the city, where they were not before. Let me give you a specific example from our town, i.e. from the town of Louny, where the now active flood zone extends to the city park. And de facto, of course, the water is still spilling the same way, and people here are used to living with it, and they know how the water works, how it flows. Nothing dramatic has changed. It only changed that the official, of course, converted the active flood zone according to some instructions or regulations, and it came out differently from the previous one. The active flood zone has spread to the city park. What's the status today? In this section it is said that in the active zone of the flood zones, constructions must not be placed, permitted or carried out. More or less at this point, we in our city park are not even able to build a playground that, by the way, was there before and didn't matter. Plus, the water's down there, that is. She's rising, she's coming back from a side trough somewhere, she's not on the current, so nothing matters significantly. When we talked to the water catchment area about the topic as city representatives, it is of course about the Ohra basin, so of course it is the right procedure from their side, that is, they will say, so there must not be built according to the law, under Section 67 of the Water Act. We understand that your request is very reasonable and from a general point of view we do not mind, but unfortunately we must stick to this paragraph and we cannot allow you to play the playground there. When we look at the situation in the water catchment areas in different places, of course it approaches this differently. Maybe I'd remind you of the swimmers here in Prague, for example. If you look at the waterfall, which I would say is a direct area that is intended for the active spilling of the river during the flood, there is a whole range of activities on the waterfall, which are significantly more pronounced than one playground for children, on which, of course, we need some building permits. [[16.00 hours]] Where am I going with this? I will try to put forward an amendment that would allow, of course, after a very strict assessment of the water law office, to allow a construction that would be, say, a civil infrastructure. Of course, it would be that this would be justified, justified in some cases and would not be common cases, i.e. exceptional cases. Of course, I realize that we're putting a certain risk there, because we all remember what happened when constructions were built in the former riverbeds, in the old riverbeds, what happened in the floods. This means with all due respect and humility to this. For the sake of interest, I would mention that in this section 67 it is allowed automatically, without any further position of the Water Authority, the construction of hops. This is also more or less the case in particular with the town of Louna. So on the one hand, we can build hop cones instead of a playground, no one can tell us that, so we can build a hopboard there, and if you imagine hop poles and a baby climber, I think that the hopper is going much worse when it comes to changing the conditions for the drain conditions. So I have this ambition. I troufnout to address all the MPs and ask for the support of an amendment, which will, of course, respect comments from all sides. I believe that the Ministry of Environment will also be able to meet me, because, as far as I know, discussions were also held by the Governor of the Ústecký Region, especially with regard to the Ohře basin. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u9	Good afternoon. Thank you to Prime Minister Kučer. With a factual remark, Mr Bendl. [[No.]] There is no interest in a factual remark. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. [[Messenger. Bendl.]] Right? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u10	Thank you for the floor. I will not be long, but I listened carefully to my colleague Zahradník when he mentioned the abolition of the exemption by law that waste water or precipitation water would already have to be picked up and cleaned in sewage treatment plants. This means simply for municipalities that have a normal sewage treatment plant, there is a sewage treatment plant, but often the municipalities have only precipitation water sewerage, which is more likely to be discharged directly into the stream, etc. And if this exception is abolished and the obligation to clean this water is introduced, which is probably what the law says, and tell me if it is not, because this is what Mr Zahradník here was talking about, that the exception is abolished, that rain separator precipitation waters are not considered waste water, so what will this mean in practice in the Czech Republic? Do we know who this is all about? If I am obliged to lure rainwater to a sewage treatment plant or to a treatment plant, then what will it do in practice? I wonder what sanctions are there when someone doesn't have it, because it's not going to be a simple matter, and for a number of municipalities in the order of months, it's definitely unrealized, more in the order of years, maybe even tens of years. Who's gonna pay for this? What are the conditions, or whether the state is to create any conditions at all, how do we begin to deal with this? Because I think it's a serious thing that needs to know more about. I very much support the rapporteur's position, who said that he would make a proposal to discuss this bill and the agricultural committee, because the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment in terms of water is very complementary when I say it in a positive sense, the floods are mainly addressed and the responsibility is largely shared by the Ministry of Agriculture, not by the Ministry of the Environment, but are very often linked there. I ask you to answer this question, if I understand this correctly, that the precipitation water needs to be cleaned, and if so, if we have any information on what territory it relates to, and what it will mean in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u11	I thank Mr Bendl. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one's reporting, I'm ending the general debate... Mr. Plzák, I'm sorry. Sorry, I take it back from the end of the general debate, I have not seen Mr Plzák. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u12	Thank you. I pressed it almost at the same time as you were closing the debate, so I'm sorry. And what my colleague Bendl said here is really an interesting question, because I have the impression that as part of the water retention process, we wanted to go along the way of some rainwater retention tanks, and that would also make me wonder if this water would have to be cleaned in some way. That really is an interesting question, and I wonder how the Minister will answer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u13	Thank you. The rapporteur is reporting a word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u14	I would just like to add, Mr President, to the Minister's proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u15	Absolutely. Mr Jan zahradník is still reporting for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u16	On the one hand, I would like to say, Mr Vice-President, if I may say that you seem to be overreacting significantly with the shortening of deadlines. Here we have said quite significantly that there will be things in this law that require more detailed study, discussion in committees, or there will be a need to amend them by amendments. If you want to have a 30-day deadline for everything, for those Members who have noticed it, what you have not noticed, who see the problem, because they have contact with citizens and with communities that you do not see, you simply make it very difficult. Thirty days isn't enough. I call on the House not to vote for shortening. It's a problem, of course. The minister, on the one hand, talks about what he called it, blue savings, but he couldn't use it, someone else has protected it, those are the rainwater toilets. Similarly, if all waste water, including those in the tanks, needs to be cleaned in the cleaners, sufficient capacity must be available. I know that municipalities have a problem with whether the cleaning capacity would be sufficient after the approval of this law. So we're wondering if you've done this analysis, and if you know if it's for rainwater, then for all the waste water from the waste pits, there's enough capacity to clean it. So I'm interrogating myself again, think about it, download the proposal. Mr Vice-President, ask the Minister to withdraw the proposal - and the rapporteur - for a 30-day discussion and leave it for a longer period of time so that these things can be thought out and possible amendments can be tabled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u17	I thank Mr Zahradník. Chairman Kučera. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u18	I'm here to join Mr. Zahradník's words. Water law is not a simple law, it is not a law that is merely a transposition of a European directive, for which it can be assumed that it can take place at some accelerated reading or at a shorter time. I would like to point out that this amendment has come to the House 5. 10. 2016. This means that she has been here for quite a while and that she has only been on the agenda today is not the fault of any obstructions or acts of the opposition, but it is only because she has been included as she was included. That means the reason not to discuss it isn't the cause of any obstruction. In my opinion, the fact that it is only half a year after it has been submitted to the House is perhaps a matter of perhaps not completely systematic or concentrated pressure to discuss by the coalition. So I would really advocate that the deadline for this law should not be shortened.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u19	Thank you. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no one like that, and now it really isn't - and, uh, it is. Mr. Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u20	Thank you for the floor. I see that the Minister does not want to answer in a proper debate, waiting for the final word so that it can no longer be answered. Well, I'll add one more argument. The Czech Republic has huge problems with groundwater. We're Europe's roof, there's no river coming to us, they're all running away. We should do everything we can to hold back the water. One of the huge problems, as we have attached a problem to ourselves with good activity, or positive, that we are forcing cities and municipalities to clean their waste water through sewage treatment plants as opposed to how it was before, when sewage flowed across squares etc. However, when the sewage was flowing across the squares, the water was sucked into the ground, the disgusting was left upstairs, the water gradually soaked in, cleaned downstairs, and we had some underwater. Don't take my word for it, I'm just saying it as a principle. By decanalizing a significant part of the Czech Republic, we also prevented the water from entering the territory, we pulled water into the sewage treatment plants, through the treatment plant into the stream, into the river, into the sea. That's how we got rid of her quickly and get rid of her. The moment we do this with the rainwater, that means we're gonna drag it into the purifier, into the stream, into the river, what's it gonna do with the water conditions here? Rather, we should talk about the water spilling more or less in the landscape behind each sewage treatment plant and not get rid of it quickly by leaking streams and rivers out of the Czech Republic as soon as possible. I consider this problem a serious matter. And if that is the case, Minister, then there really isn't enough 30 days to discuss such a bill. This will affect a significant part of the municipalities, and not only the municipalities, but of course private buildings, people, companies, etc., because they allow most of the rainwater either into the rainwater and into the stream, or only on the land somewhere where the water does not harm, because no one considers it necessary to pass through the sewage treatment plant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u21	Thank you. If no one really applies to the general debate anymore, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for the Minister's final word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u22	Thank you for the floor. Thank you for the comments. Well, first of all, the general reminder. You're right, I wasn't happy about it either, and I'm not happy that we're getting our turn now. But unfortunately, I've been skipped a few times, let me put it plainly, with other points. Even this point has already been loaded twice and has not reached it. So while we were trying to get this bill on the program, we failed repeatedly. So today we're a little behind schedule with regard to pilot, and given that point 47, that's the water directive that we would need under the Water Directive. 47, so we would need to start applying as soon as possible, because we are already getting into trouble with some projects today. Now I'm putting a few things on the table, or I'm answering a few points. I can certainly calm my colleague Zahradník, but that may have been more of a concern, but I can deny her that by transferring the administration of charges, we would be in a situation where we are actually creating an artificial program for the State Environmental Fund. It's definitely not like that. I can assure you that we already have a specific timetable for reducing the number of state fund employees today, because most of them are fixed-term and are hired just to see how projects will gradually decline under the new operational programme. But you know that the State Environmental Fund is also making new green savings, and now it will also be doing the Dešťovka programme, that is the former blue savings that we will be starting soon, actually this month for individuals, or for citizens. It is a conceptual solution where the state fund will manage all charges both from waste and from air and from water. So it should take away the Czech environmental inspection, which should focus only on control activities. The State Fund will certainly carry out this activity gradually with a smaller number of employees. The issue mentioned here by Mr Kučera - flood areas. Sure, we'll talk about it on the committees. We are ready for a specific debate on how to possibly modify it. As far as waste water is concerned, I would like to assure you, Mr Bendle, by your means, Mr President, that we are very well aware of the matter. I dare say that we are aware of it as if the first government after the revolution, because if it weren't, the struggle with the drought has already begun far more intensely before. And, among other things, if there was an interest in fighting drought, there was no support for a single sewer system in the last operational program, but a separate sewer system. We've canceled the support for uniform sewers and we're supporting separate sewers so we can separate the sewage from the rainwater or the collision water. Because, yes, you are absolutely right that the main problem is that the Czech Republic was so intensely draining water - it was still draining water behind Austria-Hungary and then from Czechoslovakia, so we did it so well that we really took it away, and now we miss it. I'm sure it's about replacing the big water cycle with the small water cycle, trying to keep the water in the landscape. But what we're talking about here is the disposal of waste water from the pits, which sometimes also normally drove to the fields and contained pollution, which certainly had nothing to do in the field. And this obligation seems to be new, what it introduces § 38 para. 8, but she is already the obligation in the present Water Act in § 38 para. 6. It only needs to be more precise. That means we're definitely ready to talk about it. We did research, of course, virtually. plus RIA's impact, what it would really take. It is certainly manageable at wastewater treatment plants, but the general trend should be to cancel the pits, and we have prepared a whole range of our subsidy programs, where, among other things, for smaller municipalities, we support domestic sewage treatment plants. So the destruction so that the water really stays in the landscape and doesn't flow to the sewage treatment plants. We are ready, of course, to present concrete projects and specifically to discuss this in committees. Given the deadline, I know that I will not be fully satisfied with this, but just in view of any other dates of the subsequent meetings of the Chamber of Deputies, I would like to propose whether it would be possible to shorten by 20 days of discussion, i.e. 40 days as a compromise proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u23	Minister, I'm sorry, so this is your final proposal. [[Yes.]] 20 days. Okay, thank you. That was the Minister's final word. Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? He doesn't. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee. Is anyone suggesting the commandment to another guarantee committee? Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u24	The Agricultural Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u25	Like a guarantee? [[No.]] Oh, I was asking about the guarantee. Okay, I respect that. So the Guarantee Committee is still on the Environment Committee, and no one has any other proposal. We will therefore vote on the environmental committee's commandments as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 138 vote, 143 Members and Members, for 113, against 3. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal was directed to the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee. The rapporteur has proposed another committee for discussion, the Agricultural Committee. I'm asking if anyone else is proposing another committee to discuss this bill. Mr. Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u26	Thank you. I would also like to propose a committee on public administration and regional development. I'm just gonna make a brief statement. I am absolutely not satisfied with the Minister's reply. I am convinced that this does not just concern the pit, that it will lead to further significant costs and pressure on municipal budgets, but not only on municipal budgets, but generally it will affect rural development, small farms, businesses and the like, and it is necessary for the Minister or the Ministry of the Environment to justify this material before the Committee on Public Administration and to say possible impacts and costs, and whether it is clear on who it will actually concern. What sanctions are there, I didn't get an answer for that either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-006-036.u27	Thank you. If no one else reports, we will vote on the commandment first to the agricultural committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the agricultural committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 139, registered is 144 MEPs, for 117, against none. The proposal was therefore directed to the agricultural committee. The last committee shall be the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I am opening the vote on the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 140 vote, 144 Members and Members signed up, for 47, against 35. The motion was not accepted. I note that the proposal was directed to the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee and further to the Agricultural Committee. The last vote should be about reducing the deadline by 20 days, as the Minister suggests. Initiating vote to shorten the deadline by 20 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 141 vote, 144 Members and Members are registered, for 41, against 51. The proposal was not accepted, so the deadline was not shortened. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur and end the first reading of this bill. The next item is the item
