ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u1	91. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, six responses were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. On 29 August 2017, Mr Tomio Okamura informed the President of the Chamber of Deputies that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová had failed to fulfil her obligation under the provisions of § 112 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies to reply to the written question within 30 days of its submission. On the day on which this complaint was lodged, she did not reply to his interpellation with regard to the data of the Pilsen Region's Labour Office of 13. 7. 2017. President of the Chamber of Deputies in accordance with § 112 para. The Rules of Procedure shall inform the Chamber of Deputies of this fact. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: "Unless an Interpelling Member is present at a meeting of the House, there shall be no debate on the response to its intervention, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or further discuss it.' And we will now proceed to discuss the response to each written interpelation. The first is here an interpelation of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Stanislav Štech. Former Minister for Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová responded to Mr Leo Luzar's interpellation in the case of Decree 282 on food requirements for which advertising is admissible and which can be offered for sale and sold in schools and educational establishments. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1088. The discussion of this response was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, respectively. in the presence of Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Stanislav Štech. Nothing has changed about this fact at all. So as I informed you a while ago, this interpellation cannot be discussed and we will proceed further. The next interview is for Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka responded to the interview of Mr Vojtěch Filip on the still unfinished implementation of the National Action Plan for Smart Networks - NAP SG Smart Grid. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1136. The discussion of this interpelation was interrupted into the presence of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who I believe is excused. I open the debate and ask Vice-President Vojtěch Filip to take the floor. [[The microphone isn't on.]] I'm sorry, it's already on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u2	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, Mr President, I understand that the Prime Minister is not here and I may not have any more answers. Allow me at least a brief comment, because I have nothing else to do at the moment, just the election, the answer that the Prime Minister has sent me to my intervention on the so-called question. smart networks to make it easier so I don't have to talk about the action plan in its entire name. In fact, there is no point in leading any consistent controversy with the answer, but it is more important that we realize how many contradictions and information that cover the current situation rather than explain it, I was given the answer. Until the end of last year it was presented, even at public conferences, that a new economic assessment will be prepared in 2017 - National Study No. 2. But since this year, the opinion is that no one needs National Study No.2 and that in the National Study No.1, the Czech Republic has not promised anything, committed to the study No.2, and the European Commission does not press us, does not demand anything, and the Ministry of Industry and Trade will only process the situation analysis from its own decision this year or next year. It is not clear when such a significant change of opinion took place. I am not convinced that the situation is so positive and in such a standard that we can settle for it. [[9.10 hours]] In response to the interpelation, it is noted that there is no criticism by the European Commission for failure to comply with the clever measurement directive. That is true, and no sanctions have been adopted, but if the reports state that the Czech Republic is one of the last countries where smart measurements are not being made, it is not a criticism. The European Commission, after all, the European Union has not really put any pressure on the Czech Republic and normally only allows for an update of the original economic assessment and will probably not create any pressure in this regard even in the future. But that's due to something other than making progress. This is due to the fact that, after brexit, at least that part of the realistic members of the European Commission find that they cannot command anything by force. Some have not yet understood, and we witnessed it yesterday in the decision of the European Court in the case of Slovakia and Hungary. The main reason can be considered so-called a winter package that adds a number of potential additional requirements to the program and will also apply in the future. In other words, whether or not today's investments will be thwarted by some new law or package. In the absolute majority of countries, smart measurements have started, or they are already fully deployed and are already being carried out in the surrounding countries, e.g. in Slovakia, Poland, Germany, which have adopted the relevant legislation, and hundreds of thousands of demand points are deployed, there is a government intention, a decision by energy distributors and other steps. Only in the Czech Republic have they been preparing so-called for four to five years. pilot projects, but the implementation of pilot projects and the steps towards mass deployment cannot be discussed at all. Fourthly, in some countries where the analysis came out negatively in 2011, apart from the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Portugal and Belgium, smart measurements began to develop. Other meaningful decisions are being made. This results from the fact that groups of countries refusing to join the commitment of 2020 remained completely alone in the Czech Republic. [[{\\cHF]] Interesting is the approach of some companies from the Nordic countries or Belgium or Ireland. These have decided to separate the whole issue and use another model where suppliers provide data from measurements installed in the network and thus the risks are transferred from the contracting authority to the supplier. I mean, at least we could start discussing this. Fifthly, a simplified supply up to 10 kW and without a licence only to declare the success of the national strategy can be regarded as a genuine contradiction, as I said at the outset. In particular, because of the expansion of decentral resources, i.e. the change of consumers in prosumers, which brings about a fundamental change in the sampling behaviour of a large set of sampling points and associated with a fundamental change in flows in the energy network of the Czech Republic, it is considered one of the main negative trends that directly enforce more modern systems for measuring and controlling the operation of the distribution network. Experience has shown that there is a possibility to ask for the installation of a measuring device higher than the specified type, but its practical implementation is very cumbersome and the result is not the installation of a smart meter, but a gauge with a measuring interval of 15 minutes and an interval for the processing and transmission of measured data per month. Everyone can apply for a higher category gauge, but the costs, even real ones, which are transferred to the customer, are high and, as a result, completely dissuasive. Thanks to this, the service is practically not used and this cannot change until the full or at least partial mass deployment of the smart measurement is started and the price of these devices falls. Sixth, it is obvious that distribution system operators, while verifying data communication technologies and preparing verification of other technologies, do not yet specify the requirements for such communications. Already in the 2012 National Study 1 it was recommended that national communication standards, measuring equipment standards and main elements of the AMM system be established by 2017. There is no minimum requirement for communication parameters or replacement mechanisms in case of failure or failure of communication, even when testing communication technology where continuous and failure-free operation is not possible, which does not mean that these communication technologies are non-compliant. It is therefore very appropriate to strengthen at least the discussion of the necessary functions of the AMM, in particular the requirements for electricity meters, the IT system and the entire related chain of technology, regardless of when the AMM is deployed, while more discussion is needed on preparation for mass deployment compared to frequent selection deployment, the role of HDO synergies with smart measurement elements, etc. In this context, I remind you that without that commitment, for example. collapses the EET system. Technology in the field of AMM and SG is changing rapidly and the technologies used in the previous wave of pilot projects are now generically obsolete, because in this area five years since the first strategy has passed, the system's obsolescence is really fast. The correct definition of the objectives of pilot projects, which we do not have, is therefore very important. At present, this definition is not truly satisfactory. In particular, it can be considered effective to define the concept with regard to a smooth transition to the area deployment phase. This allows investment in pilot projects, in particular as regards process and technological integration systems, unlike purely pilot, capacity and time-limited operations, to be used effectively. There is no available quantification of the negative effects of predicted development scenarios for the eighth time because we have not prepared pilot projects. Basically, the impacts of variant zero are not quantified, i.e. where no measures are taken to eliminate the impact of negative trends such as blackouts, losses, damage. It is therefore not clear what the proposed measures are to be compared to and therefore whether it is cheaper not to do anything. Maybe this is strategy number 2, which I was talking about at the beginning, which is not drawn up, and no one wants to confess to it. In the ninth, the public is not transparently informed about the risks of future developments and proposed solutions or impact if these solutions are not implemented at all. The problem is communicated in such a way that it is unclear and incomprehensible for the lay public, who are critically affected by the deployment and impact of smart networks, at least from the point of view of the number of end users. I'm glad, at least after my interpellation, she even started talking about whether or not we're going to deal with this. I know this government isn't going to finish it. For the tenth time, changes in processes are not considered when considering deployment as these technologies allow or support them. In the vast majority of cases, only the replacement of existing equipment by new, though clever, devices without real potential extraction occurs. The last relevant verification of technologies took place in CEZ in the VPP and AMM project four to five years ago on the basis of procurement documents, which were already two years old at that time, which means that the technology was verified more than seven years old, and this, of course, does not give any satisfactory result for the current state. After the eleventh, the purpose of SG should be, as the name itself suggests, the creation of a specific plan with clearly defined actions, steps and deadlines binding on the electricity industry of the Czech Republic. However, after two years of NAP activity, the results are unsatisfactory. To argue that the delay is due to the need for longer time to meet it is, forgive me for the very diplomatic expression, euphemism, which is supposed to conceal the lack of priority of this solution and the problems with implementation, including the stricter requirement of the NAP performance by the state of energy companies. I think we enjoyed a debate here yesterday about how and who controls ČEZ. [[9.20 hours]] The opinion states that this year the MIT organizes seminars for the professional public. So far, only one, focused on smart measurement, was carried out on 24 April this year. It was the first ever relevant step of informing the professional public. There were differences of opinion at his level, but the very fact that the MIT started the discussion was positively assessed. Unfortunately, however, information that is older is presented mostly based on earlier pilot projects. Second seminar 12. 6. it was focused on decentralised energy sources. It is indisputable that there was communication between MITs and distributors, less with the professional public. But that's what the D.O.D.'s trying to fix right now. A certain problem is that the professional public is not consolidated. At present there are technological platforms and other associations are weak and under-respected in the discussion with the state and distribution companies, including from the state apparatus itself. This makes it difficult to talk about long-term and high-quality opposition to government proposals. But the government should take advantage of this and therefore try to move forward in this area. I have noted in the expert public that other non-energy actors, especially IT, should be involved after the discussion on the implementation of NAP SG, because the interconnection of energy and digital technologies with representatives of municipalities, the Confederation of Industry and Trade is of the utmost need. For the thirteenth time, I would like to make a comment concerning the Prime Minister's reply itself. If the reply states that NAP SG will fundamentally change as a result of the legislative so-called winter legislative package of the European Commission entitled Pure Energy for all Europeans of November 2016, this means that NAP SG in its current form has been an activity that needs to be significantly modified. When I've studied - now I'm going away from the subject itself - the electoral program of individual political parties, I'm terrified that it's almost not there. And it is evident that, after the non-existent debate, the public debate, not the expert one, this is not even the subject of any solution that puts us at the end of the European front in dealing with these issues. For example, there are contributions at the Faculty of Transport of the Czech Technical University that we could make good use of. But the government of the Czech Republic has simply decided that it will be for all Evropan, but we will be at the end of it. I consider the 14th to be one of the main tasks of preparing the AMM to launch at least a pilot project from 2015 and the introduction of new meters after 2016, i.e. this year, but this clearly is not fulfilled. The CEZ Distribuce pilot project, which has been mentioned since 2015, was approved by the management in 2016 and should be started with a public contract qualification at the end of July 2017 as the only relevant example of the implementation of the National Smart Measurement Plan. But this does not mean, or rather, that it will be the same as in the above mentioned CEZ pilot project in previous years. So what will be realized in the project with technologies due to 2015 between 2018 and 2022? We'll be at least seven years late again. And does this mean that the completion of the pilot project will not happen in the Czech Republic in the area of smart measurement? We should respond to that, or respond to the citizens who are asking us about it. Finally, if the Czech Republic lags behind in the case of mass deployment of smart networks or at least pilot projects, the problem is that the system of things, standards, communication technologies and so on is still being clarified, and also that there is too complex a process of tender, which, of course, cannot be blamed on the Ministry of Industry and Trade. But there is a concern that if the work on the new economic assessment is to be only internal, which would serve for the Czech Republic's own use, to start at least this year, it will be impossible to obtain any relevant information from the upcoming pilot projects. [[Even?]] The Ministry of Industry and Trade will thus also build on the available information from the surrounding countries in the future, but then it is a matter of relevance or rather non-relevance in the conditions of our country. I don't want to hold up any longer. I know that there would be nothing left in the absence of the Prime Minister but to make at least the most basic reservations that I had to answer to my own interpelation. Don't accept your condition. I know I'm not going to get any answers, maybe the Prime Minister will use the 30-day deadline to give me my speech, I'll give him my comment in writing, answer within 30 days, but the Chamber of Deputies will no longer matter at that time, and we have no choice but to deal with it again after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u3	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Now allow me to read a few more apologies. The Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes for the morning meeting for work reasons, Mr Jiří Skalickýý apologizes between 10 and 12.30 hours for work Kovářová; Mrs Miroslava Němcová apologises from 9 to 10 hours for work reasons; Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 9 to 11 o'clock for personal reasons. I also state for the record that Mr Ladislav Okleštěk votes with replacement card number 77. I am opening the debate and with priority right is the chairman of the TOP 09 Club Michal Kučera. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, please take a look at the benches behind me, the benches of the government of the Czech Republic. When you look at the blanks, it makes us aware of what the Government of the Czech Republic thinks about parliamentary democracy, what it thinks about the House and what it thinks about accessing its tasks. I need not remind anyone that the Government of the Czech Republic is accountable to the House. When it answers to the House, it is especially at the time of the interpelling, that is, when the interpelled ministers can answer the questions of the Members and answer their comments. The participation of the Ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic of the ANO movement, the ČSSD and the People's Party during this parliamentary term was absolutely tragic. Today, however, it reached its peak. The present is zero ministers! Attention, zero ministers. And this hasn't even been here historically. I understand that there are a number of excuses that are actually acceptable. They are excuses, especially for foreign travel reasons, but if the Minister apologizes for reasons of work, I would like to inform the ministers concerned that their work is here today on this bench. I would like to ask the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, or the President of the Chamber of Deputies of Hamáček, to continue, even though I realise that this is the end of the term of office, so that he may try to make amends. I would very much hate to see this government, which means the government of the YES, the ČSSD and the KDU-ČSL movement, set a precedent for future parliamentary term, for future government and for future House. Historically, what happened in this period has never happened, which means that the participation in the interpelations was as tragic as the current government has shown. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u5	Thank you, Mr President. For the record, the Minister of Industry and Trade, when you started talking, was in the hall, but now he's not here that he left the room during the speech, so at this point we don't really have any ministers in the room. [[9.30 hours]] I ask who else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. If this is not the case and if no one is reporting, I am ending the debate and I am asking the Vice-President what resolution he is proposing. He's not suggesting. So I thank him, and I'm done discussing this interpellation. Another intervention is the interpelation of the Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný, who responded to Mr František Vácha's interpelation on the irresponsible state budget for the year 2018 for higher education. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1141. And I will ask the Member to speak the opening words.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have interrogated Minister Pilný on the State Budget for Higher Education in June 2017. And by coincidence - and I think not by coincidence, but by coincidence - that answer came to the House meeting at this time, at a time when the school unions threatened with a strike alert, when basically the whole of education, and now I'm not just talking about higher education, but also about regional education, is going into crisis. A crisis that, perhaps, Minister Valachová has tried to deal with in some way, but the whole government coalition has developed into the form that we may have a strike here. I would just like to remind you that the last strike that the unions threatened was in 2008. That means ten years ago, we were in a situation similar to what we are today. Ten years ago, we were also in an economic crisis, which means there must have been some kind of savings. Today we are in the boom, the economy is growing, yet the government has completely resigned from education and education. I focus on the issue of funding mainly high, but also regional education mostly all the time, all the four years. I can remind you that in the previous year, we managed to change the medium-term outlook for higher education funding, when several years after college to survive, they received more in the budget than the medium-term outlook. We managed to lift the medium-term outlook by about 1.25 billion. The crown and you can see that it isn't enough. The other interpelations I was giving were interpelations to a basic standard for a college student. To remind you, universities are essentially financed from two sources or by two criteria. One is based on scientific performance and one is based on teaching performance. And the basic standard for a college student is the norm for the teaching performance. I can only remind you that the basic standard has fallen from some 34,000 to the current 27,000 since 2009. That means the money that goes to one college student is falling. And that is the money from which the university must finance its entire teaching activity, which means not only teaching but also salaries. That means, if you look at it, since 2009, when there were 34,000 crowns per student, it fell to 27,000 by 2016. The government managed to increase the wages of educators in regional education. We may have some students and teachers over there. [[He's turning to the gallery.]] At least I hope, and I hope they confirm, they got the 10 percent, the non-teaching workers got, I think, 6 percent in regional education. That is why we are in a situation where teachers in primary and secondary schools have higher salaries than teachers in universities. The starting salary of a university teacher, a college grad student, means he has a D degree, then in many cases he goes abroad, where he has a so-called postdoctoral internship, mostly prestigious universities, returns to the Czech Republic, and we can offer him some CZK 20 to 22,000 a month before tax. This is outrageous! How do we want our higher education to work when we are only able to offer such wage resources? Yes, the argument that universities create their own wage regulations and tables is true, but they can only create those tables depending on the money they get from the state budget. And if they get low, they can't raise the payroll. An example may be our university, where there has been no change in tariffs since 2008, there has been no change in wage tables. Now in August, it was with the prospect that more money could come to higher education. I'll just give you an example. Last year, at the end of 2016, the Ministry of Education managed somewhere to dig up 260 million, which they sent targetedly with a letter from the Minister on the salaries of higher education teachers. Our faculty got out of the 260 million after a fair conversion of 1.2 million. That means, that's the money we put in our people's salaries. If you subtract statutory health and social insurance from this, it would cost CZK 250 per month per person. Two hundred and fifty crowns raise the salary of a university teacher! Of course, colleges can do whatever they want with it. I did what I did to give the money to young people, to those who have the least money, to those who are in crisis who start families who need to touch mortgages. It is currently the budget of the Ministry of Education for both regional and higher education. For universities, 100 million were originally promised. If you compare it to the 260 million I was talking about, it's very ridiculous. At present, the Minister is talking about some 700 million increases to the college budget, which, in turn, is a ridiculous amount compared to the 260 million. The Ministry of Education asked for 4.5 billion to be added to the college budget. Four and a half billion would already mean that perhaps higher education teachers' salaries would reach a level comparable to those of teachers in regional education, which means that today's average wage, which has already climbed to less than 30,000, would have drawn near. So we start with college teachers give 20, 22, 23,000. The average wage in the Czech Republic is approaching 30,000 a month. The Rectors' Conference is discussing this, the Council of Higher Education is discussing it, convincing the Minister, originally Minister Babiš, who refused to do so, at present the Minister of Finance Pilný. They're defending it. It is hindered by the justification that they would have to increase the state budget. Current requirements for whole schools are also that they should be added, or this requirement is an increase in wages for teachers in regional education, i.e. maternity, primary, secondary schools by 15 percent, non-teaching workers by 10 percent. These are the wages directly affected by the state budget and the increase in the college budget by 4.5 billion. When it comes to wages, teachers get to some level that is not quite dignified, but to some level where they can survive. [[9.40 hours]] Minister Pilný is resisting this. It's very defensive. There are negotiations going on and he will say at each meeting: I promise to take it to the government, we will discuss it there, all coalition parties agree and we must support education and blah-blah and I will come up with a clear statement at the next meeting. This has happened several times. I think that education and people working in schools are running out of patience, and the Minister should make it clear whether he wants to support education or not. You have to realize that the fact that we're sitting here today, the fact that I can talk into that microphone and you can hear me from the speakers, the fact that there's light on, the fact that you're dressed the way you are, it's just because of education. Only thanks to the transfer of knowledge from generation to generation. That humanity, that people are capable of figuring something out... [[Mr. Janulík disagrees loudly.]] Mr. Ambassador, don't yell. Maybe you don't have that opinion. But that's just the way it is. Transferring knowledge from generation to generation. [[Mr. Janulík is responding again.]] So maybe in your case, in the case of a gynecologist, not because of education, but you were probably self-taught or how you got into gynecology. [[Fun in KSČM Members' desks.]] The Minister of Finance claims that the money is not, that he must add that he would increase the state budget deficit by some 15 or 18 billion. Here in this place, when we approved the EET, this is where I stood, and the Minister of Finance Babiš yelled at me from behind that EET would bring the 18 billion. So if EET brings you 18 billion, then take the 18 billion and put them in education, regional and higher education. Where else are you gonna put them? You're putting them on the payroll of the civil servants, into the new offices you've created. No! Put it on education! That's the only place where you or us, the company, will return the money. Yes, it is that if you put it there, even after that four-year term, it may not appear in some of your preferences, because investment in education is long-term. That's an investment for decades and decades. And if any government, or your government, or another government, doesn't have the courage to put that money in education, and it doesn't have the courage to wait for the results for ten years, then education will be in an ever-increasing crisis. Education is not able to compete with the public and private sectors. People are leaving the school. We're unable to attract more and more people into teaching positions. And if this doesn't work out, this company will pay for it in a few years. Thank you for your attention. Unfortunately, the Minister obviously has more important things to do than what he has to do, which means working in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I open the debate and ask if anyone is interested in speaking. Mr Chalupa, to whom I hereby give my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u8	Good morning, dear colleagues. I have to admit, what my previous speaker said here, I think I'd agree with that. It sounds very nice. But what were you doing here in those previous governments? It's a nice thing to say right now. So I'd rather hear what you've done here in the past 20 years to make education look different. That's one. Secondly, education is a problem. But the problem today is raising families. That's not much to talk about. Maybe I know about colleges who don't know what to do with money. So we're aware of the problem. And definitely look at the election programs, how the parties deal with it there. Of course, coalition is a problem. But you know that as well as I do. You haven't been able to get those things through. And we were supposed to do that in three years? That sounds very nice, but you guys clean your own house first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u9	Thank you. President Michal Kučera, with the right of priority, then with the proper application by Mr Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u10	Thanks for the word. Of course, it seems very smiling to me when someone after a four-year parliamentary term, after four years of the reign of the ANO movement, the ČSSD and the People's Party, refers to what was twenty years ago. Mr President, today you are making these accounts. And the results of this government in the field of education are absolutely tragic. The answer will be the current teacher's strike alert. That's the answer to this government's policy. And please don't make excuses for the coalition. Every government is coalition and every government compromises to be able to rule. If you have not been able to make a reasonable policy in the field of education, you have failed as a whole, not as one minister. It is a failure of the government YES, CSSD and KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Vácha, then another.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u12	I will answer through Mr President. Education expenditure has not been reduced since 2008. I will read here a specific indicator of the expenditure on universities approved by your government's budget for 2015: 21 billion 491 million 733, 2016: 20 billion 337 million. Well, I think that's a pretty clear argument, a clear number. The approved college budget is one billion lower between 2015 and 2016.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u13	Thank you. If I have correctly registered it, Mr. Foldyna, then Mr. Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u14	Thanks for the word. I just wanted to remind myself. I'm from the Ústí Region, and someone here said that colleges have so much money, they don't know what to do with them. I had a table here that I gave to the Prime Minister, and I gave it to the Minister of Education, where the operating money of the universities is. And, as I was looking at, the least operating money was ÚJEP and university in Ostrava, the most money was, of course, in Prague and, of course, in Brno. You know, colleagues, I'm sorry, I don't mean to use a horrible word that doesn't fit in the House, but the liberalization that we've all shown here over the last 25 years of high school, it's so bad for him, I'm sorry to say that we should all be ashamed of ourselves. And please stop throwing balls at each other from one side to the other, people are looking at us, and I think they must be sick of us. Stop beating yourself up about what anybody's done, and let's finally do something for those schools. Let's stop liberalizing things that you just see for yourself, that they're pulling us down. We are the nation of Jan Amos Komenský and we are approaching Mongolia. And when I told one person who was involved in that high school thing -- I'm a ship's mechanic -- he called me Jarda, but Mongolia made a lot of progress. I'm saying, yeah, that's good, but we're going to meet him down there. Please, let's change that. Stop blaming each other here and think about what we've got here from private universities, what they're producing here, what's putting money in it and what's the result. That's the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u15	Thank you. Mr Chalupa, then Mr Kasal, then Mr Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u16	I agree with Mr. Foldyna, through you. I'll sign everything you said. But we are the coalition government, you have the Prime Minister and your ministers there. I'm still a disgruntled citizen, and I can see what you're saying, too. And the fact that we might be able to make a deal here and not up there is not my problem. That's one. [[9.50 hours]] Two. Private school trouble like crazy, I agree. To give graduations, or those who can't handle state colleges, to go to private school afterwards, because they're being paid to head off, and then the people who do their farm bachelors are going to be bosses with cops or soldiers, they just don't take our heads off. But I know that too. When there's a new government after the election, there might be reasonable people there who agree. It may sound bad, but I'm really just an MP. When it comes to reproaching or not blaming. Mr. Colleague, if you've been running here in 20 years--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u17	Through me, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u18	- through the President - the ball of the deficit, and now I will talk about an area in which I see that only in the area of defence and security you have caused a deficit not of the 100 billion, but of almost 400 billion, where you have caused a deficit into that education, so you will not stop this sphere in four years, and you know this well as I do, because there is a kind of physical law that talks about inertia. This country's lost over a trillion crowns since 1990. Where's the money? I told you yesterday: somewhere across the sea in the reeds. [[Glee in the hall.]] And as for unsystematicness, I agree. Some schools have a lot of money, some don't. Colleges say they're funded from other sources, regions say they're funded from other sources, but that's still taxpayers' money. Let the government finally decide on some systematic and centralization of these things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now Mrs Hnyková has done it skillfully, and she has outrun it with a point of fact. Mr. Ambassador, just a moment. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. When I listen to the discussion of colleagues in the field and on the topic of education and salaries in education, I ask myself a question. Teachers don't care about that kind of talk. They're interested in what we're going to do for them specifically. You're both from the government coalition. I don't want to blame you for what you didn't do or didn't do. We should look for solutions so that there is no strike, that we increase teachers and evaluate their work with dignity, and that they can do their job well and for the benefit of the children they educate. So these conjectures of yours that are here, and they're shameful to the teachers, I think they're useless! Let's look for a solution!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u21	Thank you, Madame. Now, Mr Kasal with a proper application. Mr Vácha will be prepared, then Mr Chalupa will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will want to be a little bit of a matter, and I will focus only on part of the cutting, and that is health education. I can afford to say that I have been involved in both changing the education of doctors and nurses. Here I have heard from my colleague Vácha through the President: let us raise money, do not decrease or increase. This is really about making a system change, and that's what we've come across in nurses' education. Why could sisters have had four years of education, were they of good quality, and suddenly they had seven years of education? And when you asked people directly, you went to them, and they said, "We sit there for a year and we know nothing more, we don't have a better education." But seven years is a longer time, and of course it's a lot more money. The point is not only to get the money directly to the cantors who deserve it - and I have absolutely nothing against private education, to church state education, but it is about setting the conditions so that the education that comes out of it is good and good people who can then go straight into the field. When you get a nurse and the first thing she asks is where she gets an office, and she doesn't even care if she treats people, that's the problem. Then the problem is what we raise for money. It's too bad to say this, but that was the experience we had. And another thing. When we interrupted the medical assistant, someone else came to lecture us from the European Union as it must be, and then we learned at the conference that 83 percent of the medical assistants who had a tiny difference from a nurse who had to have a college to reach a sister went back to college. We're learning forever here, and basically we're not taking advantage of the potential so that people can take their experience where it's supposed to be. Interestingly, when we were in Karlovy Vary, the medical assistant, who had been educated for three or four years, crossed only the border to Germany, had a six-month course, and as it was an education, was able to be the head of a given nursing facility. But with us, he needed another three years to carry out any activity at all. First of all, we should look at whether we're not learning unnecessarily widely or even senselessly, and then we'll put money into it. Of course, it's part of the education. The second part is that it should also be made clear that when money goes into education, it's about getting to people. I know it when it was added to the health system, it's going to add up across the board, but it doesn't get to people. That's what I think is important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mr. Vácha. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would like to conclude by saying that we have all agreed somehow that education needs help, that more money should be put into education, that education should be reformed in some way. I think I'd be done with that. My colleague wants to get out of the car. [[Member of the Chalupa.]] I think he's gonna make a speech like mine, I hope he's okay with it. I would like to call on you to promote in your party secretariats the idea and your bosses, who have some decision-making ability or power, to push education to be a priority for all of us, not just for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with proper application, Mr Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u26	I'll leave a description of how much graduation costs today. I'll join your colleague. I'm sure there's reconciliation here. I don't understand it myself. I was listening to Mr. Rector on TV, I mean, Charles University, or CTU, whatever, and he said this clever thing: "When you listen to the politicians, they all want to, and when I want to, I'm here on TV today because I wanted to." I don't understand either. We all do, and it doesn't work. What's wrong? That we can't make a deal? We're able to make a deal here, meet here, figure things out. We're gonna have to put more pressure on the people sitting above us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. It's not like that. I'm done with the conversation. I ask Mr Vácha, if, and if so, what resolution he proposes. He's not suggesting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u28	I would, of course, propose a resolution, but I don't want to take any chances - you know what? [[There is not a sufficient number of Members in the Chamber.]] I don't want to say it in front of people because we'd be embarrassed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u29	Thank you for the constructive approach. I'll read a few apologies. Mr Ludvík Hovorka apologizes from 9.45 to 12.30 due to participation in negotiations outside the building. Mrs Ivana Dobešová apologizes because of a foreign trip between 7 and 8 September. Mr Jan Farský apologizes today between 10.30 and 13.15 for reasons of work. Apologies to Mr Pavel Plzák on 7. 9. the whole of the negotiated prices for working reasons. I'm done discussing this interpellation. We're still at point 91. We're going to be discussing an interview with the Vice-President of the Government, Pavel Bělobrádek. Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek responded to Mr František Vácha's interview on the evaluation of the results of research organisations. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1142. Ambassador, please state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u30	Thanks again for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, I have intersected Mr. Vice-President of the Government Bělobrádek again in June 2017. The reason was that last year, in May, at the end of May, his section shut down the information system of science and research, on which not only the evaluation of science in the Czech Republic depends, but also other things, as a record of grant projects. This system is used to prepare the state budget for science and research. They turned it off and didn't come up with a good enough replacement. The system didn't work for several months, after many emergencies and even our interventions, such as a colleague Zlatuška, they managed to run a system. However, as I was saying, the system also works for the evaluation of science. And that was probably the most painful process when, after assessing the results for 2014, i.e. Evaluation 2015, there were so many errors in the calculation that the scientific community essentially rebelled. I've been intersecting Vice President White's good man. I gave him some 22 questions about how the system works. I've got answers I can't be happy with. I'm not gonna read all your answers and my reactions here, because there are two more interpelations behind me, so I'd like my colleagues to be able to do the same. However, as an example. My question was: How is it possible that your section prepared such an unsatisfactory result of the calculation that it is forced to promise to correct errors and compensate them? And the answer was that the calculation of the evaluation is completely correct - and now: that the promise of correction of results should eliminate the projection of these irregularities in the following evaluation 2016. I don't know if you understand this official language, but they said everything's okay, but we're gonna fix all the mistakes that are there next year. So our calculation contains irregularities, we know about them, we just don't admit it. Other problems were in the term. According to this assessment 2015, the budgets of research organisations are being prepared, when the evaluation was not completed even in mid-2016. At the same time, the budget is being prepared in those organisations in January, February, March tops, which means that many of these organisations had to go under a non-standard regime. The deadline has not yet been met in August 2016. Then there are mistakes where in just dozens of magazines - the results have some appreciation according to the quality of the magazine - the results didn't match the values of the magazines at all. I'm just gonna go through that briefly. Often there were results that were not to be evaluated at all, so-called. non-impaced magazines, or there were also results in the books of chapters that were not supposed to be in those results. These results are calculated over the last five years, and when the results were calculated purely for the year, for example, 2013 according to the methodology used until then and according to its calculations, the results did not match. That's what we asked how it was possible. They told us everything was okay. However, such things like that, when you added up the number of points, you got not to 100, but perhaps 150 percent etc. As I said, I don't want to read this whole place, but I would like to point out that according to the results of the evaluation, this screwed-up assessment of 2015, state resources for research organisations are being distributed. And if the calculation is wrong, then we have to realize that there has also been an incorrect distribution of money into research organisations, i.e. the incorrect distribution of public funds. And I would like to point out that all this responsibility goes to the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Bělobrádek. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening up a debate on this point and asking the Members present if anyone is interested in speaking. If no one else is speaking, I am ending the debate and I am asking the Member whether he is proposing a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u32	Of course - no one sits here anymore, we know that there are 55, there should be 67 of us, so I will not come up with any resolution, however - off the record - I do not agree with the answer, and I believe that all of you would join me if we dared to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u33	Thank you, I'm done discussing this interpellation. I hope you all feel better about how we're doing right now. We have two members of the government. We've grown over the last year's contribution. We will discuss the interview with the Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický, who responded to Mr Vojtěch Filip's interpellation with regard to the acquisition of mobile radiolocators of the MADR's mid-range range. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1144. I ask the Vice-President to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u34	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be very economical. I disagreed with Minister Stropnický reply. I thank him for at least apologizing to me personally from today's meeting, and I will not torture him here in any way, but allow me to sum up the meaning of my interpelation in such a concentrated form. The army of the Czech Republic needs urgent replacement of the old P37 radars, which have been in their technical life for several years. Retia, a. s., is responsible for ensuring the operation of the radar, which declared that it was no longer able to maintain these radars in operation in the long term. For this reason, the General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic has been demanding for several years to replace these locators with new means. These must be modern locators that will meet both current operational requirements and the possibility of further development to ensure effective operational use for the next 20 years, perhaps. Therefore, it is necessary for the Army of the Czech Republic to acquire a modern tool that will meet current and future operational requirements for such equipment. The Ministry of Defence has undertaken to purchase MADR radars via G2G, a government-government relationship, to speed up the delivery of radars to the Army of the Czech Republic while ensuring transparency in the acquisition of these locators. So it means that the deal would be dealt with directly with the government, without the intermediaries being there, etc. I do not want to describe the current state of the project deeply, I will just say that the contract was to be signed at the end of last year, then the deadline was to be postponed to the end of April 2017 and the contract is to be signed - on my request - directly with Israel Aerospace Industries, although it is a state enterprise. The condition for the conclusion of the G2G contract is not fulfilled. Israel's government, not Israel Aerospace Industries, should be the counterpart to the signing of the contract. [[10.10 hours]] However, the negotiations showed that the offer would not include the integration of the radiolocators delivered to the ACCS Alliance Command and Control System. This integration will have to be carried out additionally and will mean a further increase in funding from both excluded projects. Other offers came from Thales from France and from Saab, Sweden, which had integration as part of the offer. I'd make it a little easier. It is excellent - either the Minister of Defence wants to separate the Army of the Czech Republic from NATO and then he has my great support, or he wants to make it more expensive and he does not have my support in that case. The radiator supplied by the Israeli company Elta, which is part of the company Israel Aerospace Industries, is unlikely to meet the technical requirements as set out in the technical specification of the project. The course of the negotiations showed that the chosen method of acquisition would not be more transparent, economically or more advantageous and would not meet the technical requirements contained in the technical specification. That's why I was interpelling. The problem occurred even after Saab hired the law firm Baker & McKenzie and challenged the tender, respectively. not a tender, but a contract procedure itself. That's why I interpelled it, and I asked how it would be ensured. And the answer that was actually called into question the validity of the offers that went against it. I cannot agree with that because the question remains whether the Ministry of Defence could have used the chosen procedure, i.e. whether the conditions for applying the G2G exemption were fulfilled. And the European Commission's interpretation of what G2G is says that the buyer and the seller must be a public administration, not a state enterprise, that is, a government, a single ministry or a local or regional government, and it must not be that state enterprise. In principle, a quote from the G2G public supply contract provides for the transfer of ownership rights from the seller of the public administration to the buyer of the public administration. On the contrary, the fact that one public administration provides a competing economic operator with a guarantee for good execution or similar forms of aid is not sufficient to apply exclusion to that contract. It is further laid down in those conditions of the European Commission that the exemption must be interpreted restrictively and applied only in exceptional cases. Where the required result can be achieved by standard procedure, the contracting authority may not apply the derogation. Therefore, the Buyer State must make a thorough analysis of whether the G2G procedure is the best solution and whether there is a competition between more potential suppliers for the goods demanded. Of course, there are more potential suppliers here. The G2G procedure is justified where the analysis indicates that there is no relevant competition for the goods requested. This should always be justified by the contracting authority. In our situation, however, many manufacturers were able to deliver the requested systems and these could meet the requirements of the Ministry of Defence declared in the procurement procedure. However, the G2G procedure eliminated the Ministry of Defence, thus eliminating participation in the competition of European producers in the process, and the procedure in this European context means that only unnecessary property, which is already owned by a state, can be acquired with the exception of G2G. In the case of new goods, the procedure would have to be such that the government of the requested State buys the goods from the manufacturer and sells it on its behalf to the government of the requesting State. That's basically unrealizable. But I understand that the implementation could have been agreed in this way at a joint meeting of the Government of Israel and the Government of the Czech Republic, which is organized by the Government of the Czech Republic. And the last question remains whether the Ministry of Defence has prepared an analysis according to point (i) and whether there is a justification for the chosen procedure under the exception, i.e. whether it has negotiated it in Brussels. The DOD should be able to prove that it's important to ask. I accepted Minister Stropnický's apology from today's meeting. I put this to you to understand why I interpelled it, and I leave the next step on the Minister's personal initiative, or I will hand it over to the Defence Committee members to continue to deal with it. Because, I say, I don't suppose the Minister of Defence wanted to prevent the compatibility of our army with the armies of the pact, but the procedure that would then increase the purchase itself, and then, I would say, the dispute with France, with Thales, would, of course, require the means of legal defense against such a challenge. And we probably wouldn't have bought the Army of the Czech Republic any radars. So in this respect, I have to say, I have no further procedure. I will simplify this to the President and I will not propose anything at the end of my interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u35	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I'm opening the debate. I'm asking if anyone is interested in getting to that point. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I ask the Vice-President if he is proposing a resolution. He's not suggesting, and I'm done discussing this interpellation. Let me read the apology of Mr Martin Sedlář, who apologizes between 10 and 12 because of negotiations outside the House. The last interview that is on the agenda is that of the Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek, who responded to Mr Miroslav Grebeníček's interpelation on the participation of Deputy Prime Minister of the Czech Republic in the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft convention. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1147. I shall ask the Member to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps many have already got used to the fact that, in particular, some KDU-ČSL officials and Catholic prelates are very close to the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft organizations. And yet, even among these people, it is not common enough for Daniel Herman to become directly members of the Landsmanshaft, or even, as he did, to become leaders of the Czech branch of some of the Landsmanshaft organizations. Yes, last year Minister of Culture of the Czech Republic and Chairman of the Czech branch of one of the Landsmanšaft organization Daniel Herman visited the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft convention, where he publicly claimed that the Czechoslovak Republic was on so-called. The Sudeten němec have committed ethnic cleansing. Minister of Culture of the Government Bohuslav Sobotka and Chairman of the Czech branch Ackermann Geheime actually publicly accused the Czechoslovak Republic of the Czechoslovak Němec of the Czechoslovak State acting without examining the error and question of maintaining loyalty to the Republic. What Minister Herman has demonstrated would have to lead any decent Prime Minister to appeal a minister who, in a clear conflict of interest, feels more a member of the Sudeton German Landsmanshaft than a constitutional official of the Czech Republic. Prime Minister Sobotka didn't do it then. He even supported his minister by claiming that Landsmanšaft is supposedly needed by the Czech Republic to promote its interests in Europe. Bernd Posselt, spokesperson and chairman of the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft, last year appreciated the presence of Minister of Culture Daniel Herman at the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft convention, and according to Posselt, the participation of a member of the Czech government at the Landsmanšaft Congress meant that the Czech government - and I quote it - had rejected the principle of collective guilt applied in the post-war movement of the German-language minority. [[10.20 hours]] Pavel Bělobrádek, Deputy Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, as you could see in his response to my interpelation, is no different than Daniel Herman. He does not feel and did not feel any need to correct the false attacks of Daniel Herman on the Czechoslovak State during his visit to the Sudeton German Landsmansaft this year. According to Pavel Bělobrádek - and again I will quote: "I have not corrected anything because the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman has not lied about anything. " Yes, ladies and gentlemen, also Vice-President of the Cabinet of Bohuslav Sobotka, as well as his fellow party and minister of culture, I would like to repeat once again the words of a member of the Landsmansaft Daniel Herman - that countries that have become part of the Soviet empire have addressed these issues under Moscow's dictation with the optics of ethnicity. So there was no investigation of guilt or innocence, no examination of whether the Hitlers stood Hitler during the war, but it was based on ethnic cleansing. Unbelievable, isn't it? Now, let's pour some pure wine. What is the historical and legal reality? That is, what, unlike Hitlerův's třetí říše's crooked lamentations, who have broken up the republic and supported Hitler until the last days of occupation and war, is an indisputable historical and legal reality. Daniel Herman and Pavel Bělobrádek actually juggle the alleged dictation of Moscow by the optics of the guilty and the war of the defeated Němec. And it is already lacking, just like the losing Nazis the fallen Němec and Germany began with the misery and nostalgic calculus of fighting Bolshevism and the hope that Western allies could be talked to and tried to turn them against the Soviet Union. No, the Minister of Culture and his party chairman are actually wrong about this. The move of the guilty Němec from Czechoslovakia and Poland was not decided under any dictation of Moscow. No professional historian or lawyer would dare to repeat this false Sudetonian design. The legal basis for the move was the real decision of the winning powers of the anti-Hitler coalition, as contained in the protocol from the Potsdam Conference. The move was then carried out according to the plan of the Allied Audit Board for Germany. I do not want to speculate on what standards would be applied today to those who would break sovereign states, to apply occupation terror and genocide in the dimensions in which Nazi Germany and Němec supporting Hitler did so. The exterminated Lidice, Ležák and hundreds of thousands of Czechoslovak victims of German occupation, terror and total war cannot be downplayed. In that case, the lie spread by the Minister of Culture by Daniel Herman and the defending Vice-President of the Government, Pavel Bělobrádek, is no longer merely a folklore act of anti-Soviet resentment, but a direct evidence of the most serious failure of persons who hold the positions of constitutional officials of the Czech state. In this case both attack the Czech public and move to the positions of the tombs of Nazism in the most shameful way. They deceive the public and flatter themselves into the favor of the Sudeton German Landsmanšaft by lying to the undisputed facts and denying the applicable laws of the Czechoslovak Republic and the legal order of the Czech Republic. It is not difficult to prove it directly by quoting the relevant laws. The decisions of the allies on the government's obligation to move the Němec to Germany followed, and in the spirit of these agreements there were concrete Czechoslovak laws. I am thinking in particular of the constitutional decree of the President of the Republic No. 33 of 2 August 1945 on the regulation of Czechoslovak citizenship of German and Hungarian nationals. However, he also explicitly stated that those who prove that they remained loyal to the Czechoslovak Republic had never been guilty against the Czech and Slovak nation and either participated actively in the fight for its liberation, or suffered under Nazi or fascist terror, the Czechoslovak citizenship was preserved. In addition, the Decree of the President of the Republic No. 108 of 25 October 1945 on the confiscation of enemy property and national recovery funds in Section 1 states: Confiscated without compensation, if not already done so, for the Czechoslovak Republic property immovable and movable, in particular property rights, which on the date of the actual termination of the German and Hungarian occupation was or still is owned by persons of German or Hungarian nationality, with the exception of persons who prove that they remained loyal to the Czechoslovak Republic, have never been guilty against the Czech and Slovak nation and either actively participated in the fight for its liberation, or suffered under Nazi or fascist terror. It is therefore clear from the diction of the cited decrees that the Němec who were not guilty and who participated in the resistance or suffered under Nazi or fascist terror were not subject to displacement. They did not fall among those who would be confiscated without compensation of property. The Czechoslovak State proceeded here with the knowledge that German anti-fascists and all those who have not committed themselves against the Republic and have maintained their loyalty to it will be preserved or returned to civil rights after the review. However, Lidovický's official and branch chairman ACKERMANN Gemeinde Daniel Herman and his chairman Pavel Bělobrádek ignore the facts. Talking about his alleged truth, i.e. that according to them the Czechoslovak state committed arbitrary ethnic cleansing and that he acted without examining the error and question of maintaining loyalty to the Republic. Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek replied in his reply to my written interpelation on whether Daniel Herman's position is also his and the whole KDU-ČSL party's position, saying: "My relationship and the whole KDU-ČSL to Germany are completely in line with the official line of the Czech Republic." He probably doesn't know that we have passed the law here in the House, that Edvard Beneš has planted and deserved the Czechoslovak state. Ladies and gentlemen, I must at least ask the rhetorical question, since the Vice Prime Minister is no longer present: Is the relationship of the Minister of Culture and the Deputy Prime Minister fully in line with the official line of the Czech Republic? Is it really lying about the international context of moving away, the lying to the Potsdam Agreement, the Paris agreements and denying the existence of valid Czechoslovak laws and all that questioning the rule of law of the Republic in accordance with the official line of the Czech Republic? Does the Czech Republic really need its Minister of Culture to be the chairman of the Landsmanshaft branch, who does not know and does not want to recognise his constitutional obligations and the applicable legal order? And does the Republic and its citizens really need the Minister of Culture and the Vice-President of the Government to submit to the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft to disgrace their lying memory of the victims of Nazism and war and threaten the national interests of the Czech Republic? [[10.30 hours]] So I want to be properly understood. I certainly don't belong to those who advocate excess retribution as a historian, but I respect the facts. The end of the war and the month after that, before the situation stabilized, and before the Republic and its state power took full control of the liberated country, they were necessarily associated with many tragic events and with victims of violence, suffering, disease. But it wasn't just about the Němec. Historians have every right to seriously examine what was happening back then, the causes and the context. But what I find unacceptable are attempts by landsmanšaft's tombs and their Czech supporters like Daniel Herman and Pavel Bělobrádek to build - or who helped break up the republic, who supported Nazi terror and Hitlerův's empire until the last days of its agony - to make them equal to their victims. I consider it shameful to really build such attempts, i.e. equal to the harm and suffering of the perpetrators of Nazi terror, and I find it unacceptable for people in the high positions of constitutional officials of the Republic to forge history and attack the legal foundations and national interests of the Czech state. I dare say that equal and sincere good relations with Germany and generally relations with decent Němec cannot begin with an undignified lie about history and legal facts and an understatement of the Sudeton German Landsmansaft conventions. Ladies and gentlemen, if the Archbishop of Prague, Cardinal Dominik Duka, said several times that the displacement or expulsion of the believing German nationality meant the loss of almost a quarter of the believers but also clergymen to the Roman Catholic Church, it should not be related to their nationality or religious orientation. It was clearly about their fascism. This is what led them to the path that the Sudeten Němec themselves chose and on which they persisted to the well-known bitter end. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening up a debate on this point and asking if anyone is interested in speaking. If no one else is speaking, I am ending the debate and I am asking Mr Miroslav Grebeníček what resolution he is proposing. [[Mr Grebeníček: We are not a quorum.]] So you're not suggesting. Thank you. I'm done discussing this interpellation. I am of the opinion that, for today, we have completed the discussion of the answers to the written interpelations of Members. We've got 10.33 and I'm interrupting the meeting until 11:00, when we're going to proceed according to the approved agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue. It is 11 o'clock and allow me first to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Lukáš Pleticha apologizes for the whole day, for the reasons of work, and for the reasons of work, Mr Jan Skopeček also apologizes. According to the approved agenda, we should address the items from the second reading block, the international agreement, or the points from the News block, proposals and others, as approved by the programme. In the afternoon, we would logically focus on paragraph 92, which is oral inhalation. But I'm asking because it's time for any suggestions on changing the agenda. I see the lady of the house. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to include the press 1099, which is the Report of the Audit Board of the Technology Agency of the Czech Republic, which is also the addition of which is the approval of remuneration, please for 2016. So that we do not leave with debt, please, to place this point, and I propose the first point of this morning's block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-001-091.u40	Yes, thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová for her proposal. Who's next? If no one else, we can put this motion to a vote and put it before point 8. Proposal for a Monitoring Board of the Technological Agency. I have a request for a check-out. It's not like that. I think I'm... I'm just gonna ring the bell. I'm going to ask colleagues who haven't yet come from a short interpellation break to sign up with their ID cards. On Mrs Anna Putnová's proposal to discuss the report on the activities of the Monitoring Board of the Technological Agency, its inclusion today's first point before the report block, we would decide in voting number 31, which I have begun and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 31 of the present 79 for 52, against no one. The proposal has been approved and we will have it as our first point today. Mrs Radka Maxová votes with card 78 and Mrs Kovářová with card 72. According to the resolution that has just been approved, we will address the issue:
