ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u1	338. Final report of the Chamber of Deputies investigating serious errors which occurred during the preparation and implementation of construction D 47 Please don't... Just a minute. To the vote, Madame? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u2	Good morning. I am not questioning the vote, however, only for the tapestry. I voted in favour, and I'm against drugs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u3	Thank you, Madame. I now ask that the report submitted be presented by Mr Jan Birke, President of the Commission of Investigation. Mr. President of the House of Deputies... We've got 9.50, we'll interrupt by 9.52 hours in order to secure the presence of the Chairman of the Commission of Investigation. Thank you. [[The hearing is suspended from 9.50 am to 9.52 pm.]] The esteemed colleague, ladies and gentlemen, is 9.52, and we have the President, whom I am asking to take the floor and present the report. Just a moment, Mr. Chairman. To the vote?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u4	I am very sorry, just for the previous vote. I have a cross on high, I mean, I've been delayed, but I actually voted in favour. I'm not questioning the vote, just for the tape screen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u5	Yes, thank you. Mr Korte.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u6	The same story. I also do not question the vote, I voted in favour, I have a cross on high. Since this is the second time in a short time, I ask that my voting device be checked after the end of the day, because I believe that it is not okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u7	Yes, thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask you to lower the level of noise in the room so that the President can present his report in peace. Thank you. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr Government, I am very sorry, please forgive me for having to call for a break, so thank you for your understanding. We have a long-awaited point in the final report of the D47 Committee of Investigation. Two days ago, the whole text of this report was put in your desks, i.e. to all Members. As this point is opened, it will, of course, also be open to the public. I'm probably most likely, and I hope you'll forgive me, and I won't bother to read the full report of the committee of inquiry, but I'm just focusing on factual findings and, from this paragraph or from this document, I'd like to give you a very detailed briefing of the final report. So let me start with a quote. Brief history of the D47 motorway. D47 motorway, which is now an operational part of the longest Czech motorway D1, is a backbone road connecting the eastern part of the Czech Republic with Poland, where the Polish motorway A1 follows it in the direction of Katowice. From the point of view of Central European transit, the D47 motorway as part of the D1 motorway is therefore of crucial importance. The construction of the D47 motorway took place between 2003 and 2012 and was divided into nine sections of the total length of 80 km Lipník nad Bečvou - state border of the Czech Republic/Poland. The last section of the D47 motorway Bohumín - the state border between the Czech Republic and Poland was operational in November 2012. In addition, it should be noted that in the fourth parliamentary term, a resolution was established by the Chamber of Deputies of the Investigation Commission to clarify the facts in connection with the conclusion and termination of the contract between the Czech Republic and the company Housing and Construction for the construction of the D47 motorway. The Chamber of Deputies stated in its resolution that the government of Miloš Zeman closed with the company Housing and Construction on the basis of the final report of the 2004 Commission of Investigation. The implementation agreement for the construction of the D47 motorway, which was disadvantageous for the Czech Republic and, as a result, could significantly negatively affect the overall payment of the state. On the other hand, the Chamber of Deputies acknowledged that the government of Vladimír Špidla, which decided to abolish the so-called "extinction'. The implementation agreement, even at the price of financial compensation of CZK 626,1 million, acted correctly and in favour of the Czech Republic. The detected defects of the D47 motorway and the state of their solution according to the opinion of the Road and Motorway Directorate. The Commission requested the opinion of the Road and Motorway Directorate on its activities, from which the following is given: Shortly after opening some sections of the D47 motorway at the end of 2007, in particular three sections in the vicinity of the regional city of Ostrava, defects began to appear on the motorway. ŘSD found and claimed to the contractors of these buildings/leaders of Eurovia CS and Strabag, i.e. supplier company/ extraordinary number of serious defects, in particular defects consisting of rolling of the road and in longitudinal and transverse cracks of the vehicle cover due to inappropriate materials used by the contractor into embankments. According to the opinion of the Road and Motorway Directorate, this defect consists in particular of the fact that the contractor of the constructions used hopper materials into their natural body, which had unacceptable properties leading to their large changes. In addition to the faults of the routes, the safety of operation and service life of the entire motorway also threaten the major defects of bridge objects, on which in many cases there are uncontrollable and unacceptable vertical and horizontal shifts of bridge supports. The bearings of some bridges have already gone beyond their permitted limits and have ceased to fulfil their technical function. Due to the destruction of bridge structures, bridge conclusions have been closed in a number of cases, which thus fail to fulfil their dilation function, and there are unacceptable pressures on the bridge structure. The Road and Motorway Directorate also identified and claimed to the contractors defects in the absence of bridge steel, the supporting structures of some bridges, because the contractors, according to the findings of the ŘSD, did not build the required amount of steel in the supporting structures of some bridges. In the opinion of the Road and Motorway Directorate, the contractors thus enriched themselves with an amount of nearly CZK 370 million. On construction sites affected by serious defects, the ŘSD has, in many cases at the request of the traffic police, taken up to 60 km/h, i.e. well below the maximum speed permitted on motorways in the Czech Republic. Some bridge objects even threatened that they would have to be completely closed due to the need to maintain security. [[10.00 hours]] Eliminating defects in buildings. During November and December 2012, ŘSD applied its claims to eliminate defects in buildings on sections D4708.2 km 146 to 153. Next, D4708.2 on kilometer 153 to 155. Furthermore, D47091 and D47091/2 of the D47 motorway, through actions brought before the Arbitration Court and the District Court for Prague 1. A total of 12 actions were brought before the Arbitration Court with claims for the removal of defects, while the Arbitration Court merged the proceedings for all actions for individual buildings into one, so that three proceedings are currently pending before the Arbitration Court regarding the removal of defects of buildings on D4708.2 per kilometre 146 to 153, D4709/1 and D4709/2 at the District Court for Prague 1 proceedings concerning the removal of defects of building buildings SO 228 and SO 229 building D4708. Like I said, it's a mile 146 to 153. The Roads and Motorways Directorate has removed at its expense due to their emergency situation and has therefore changed in the course of arbitration proceedings the initially claimed right to remove the defects in question to be entitled to payment of the discount on the basis of their existence and seeks payment of an amount of more than CZK 50 million. Those actions were brought by the Road and Motorway Directorate on the ground that the contractors refused to recognise their liability for the claimed defects, or refused to eliminate at their expense and risk those claimed defects for which they had recognised their responsibility in the complaint procedure. At the same time, the end of the warranty periods of the individual buildings of the buildings mentioned and, where appropriate, defects, which were repeatedly claimed by the Road and Motorway Directorate during the warranty period. There was a risk that there would be a futile expiry of the limitation period for the exercise of the right to remove them before the court. For the purposes of calculating arbitration fees, the Road and Motorways Directorate estimated the total value of the claims applied before the Arbitration Court for an amount of approximately 3 billion. CZK, based on the price of the items of the inventory of works and the statement of dimensions for those technological parts of individual buildings in the buildings of the listed buildings of the D47 motorway, which were directly affected by the removal of the relevant defects. During these arbitration proceedings, the contractors removed a number of defects of the said D47 motorway constructions under the pressure of the actions submitted for their risk and costs, in particular the repairs of the defects of the building building building on section 151 of construction D47091/2, so-called. Great rest Antošovice in km 161,45 on the right, consisting of inequalities and cracks of top covers, the cost was approximately 70 mil. CZK, and repairs of bridges SO 204, SO 205, SO 213 and construction D47091/2, which consisted in the breakdown of the road and the existence of cracks on the supports of bridges and other repairs of defects. In these proceedings, individual defects are now being discussed and relevant evidence proposed by the parties to the dispute is being carried out, but so far no decision has been given by the Arbitration Court in the substance of the present case. Also in the court proceedings before the District Court for Prague 1, defects were discussed, the removal of which the Road and Motorways Directorate claims in the present proceedings, and the related evidence proposed by the parties to the dispute was carried out. The District Court for Prague 1 has not yet issued a decision on the substance of the present case. At the end of 2016, the judge discussing the dispute terminated her duties and the dispute was assigned to a new judge as of 2017. In the opinion of the Road and Motorway Directorate, the enforcement of the claim for the removal of defects in buildings D47 km 146 to 153, D4708 km 153 to 155, D4709 and D47091 generally contributed to the change of the access of contractors of other buildings to the removal of advertising defects, especially in buildings D4704. 993 defects have been removed from the total number of claimed defects 1 309. D4705 out of the number of claimed defects 3 705 2 281 defects were removed. D4706 out of the number of claimed defects 2 265 969 defects were removed. A 1 502 defects were removed in section D4707 from the total number of claimed defects 2,527. Two bridge supports in order to save bridges in 2015 The Road and Motorway Directorate repaired its own cargo. [[The speaker continuously drinks water during the performance.]] I'm sorry, I'm thirsty as a camel. Compensation for damages due to the unduly invoiced valuation of construction prices. The Road and Motorway Directorate carried out a detailed audit of the D4708.2 building documentation on km 146 to 153, D47091/1, D47091/2, D4704, D4706 and D4707 motorway D47. As part of that audit, it was found by the ŘSD that the contractors of the seven D47 motorway constructions, contrary to the relevant works contracts, had faked and ŘSD had paid higher amounts of price valorisation than the contractors were entitled to. Therefore, ŘSD applied a total of seven claims lodged with the Arbitration Court at the end of 2012 and early 2013 to pay an amount of approximately CZK 1,2 billion as compensation for the damage caused by the ŘSD due to the unlawful increase in the valuation by the contractors of the D47 motorway constructions. All of the above claims of ŘSD were considered justified by the Arbitration Court. The arbitration court ordered the contractors to pay CZK 293 809 995 in favour of ŘSD, of which interest of CZK 38 094 438. The remaining claims of ŘSD amounting to more than CZK 900 million were assessed by the Arbitration Court as a limitation. As part of the proceedings in which the unwarranted valuation of the prices of buildings D4704, D4706 and D4707 was discussed, the Arbitration Court concluded that the employees of ŘSD were also involved in the damage. Therefore, the amount of unlimited entitlement granted to ŘSD was reduced by one quarter. According to the communication from the director of ŘSD Ing. Jan Kroupa did not have ŘSD with regard to the method of valorisation of the exact information from the construction period and the fact that the valorisation was applied by the respective contractors in breach of contracts was established only following a detailed audit carried out in 2012, as a result of inadequate access by the contractors in relation to the claimed defects of the relevant D47 motorway constructions. [[10.10 hours]] Failure and substitution of bridge steel on steel bridges constructions - another chapter. ŘSD also identified defects related to incorrect quantity or type of steel delivered to the bridge structure of some D47 motorway constructions by internal checks in 2012. In particular, it was found from the ŘSD that D4708.2 builders per kilometre 146,600 - 153,054 and D47091/1 faked and ŘSD paid steel in quantities that were not actually delivered to steel bridges, namely SO 201 and SO 216 constructions on the section D4708.2 per kilometre 146 - 153 and SO 233 constructions D47091/1. In fact, the price of unfinished bridge steel was increased by the builders by valorization. The ŘSD also found that the contractors of the construction D47091/2 used steel with resistance to atmospheric corrosion of the type ATMOFIX in the bearing constructions of the bridges SO 202, instead of conventional carbon steel with corrosion protection, which they were required to supply under the contract for the work. As a result, ŘSD applied for more than CZK 145 million as a discount from the price corresponding to the quantity of steel not delivered to the bridges SO 201 and SO 216 of the construction and D4708.2 per kilometre 146 - 153 and SO 233 of the construction D47091/1 multiplied by unit steel prices in the supplier's offers, as well as the right to reimbursement of the related valorisation of more than CZK 21 million. An oral hearing was held in arbitration proceedings concerning these actions, evidence was carried out and the parties submitted their final proposals almost two years ago. However, the decision on the matter has not yet been given. In addition, by an action brought before the Arbitration Court, ŘSD applied claims exceeding 186 miles as a discount on the price of the work, which corresponds to the total price of the unbuilt amount of common carbon steel with corrosion protection to the supporting structures of the SO 202 bridge building D47091/2, and the claim for payment of the related valorisation of more than 14 million crowns. The arbitration panel recognised the ŘSD's claim to a discount on the construction price as justified, but only in the amount corresponding to the financial expression of the qualitative difference between normal carbon steel with corrosion protection and corrosion resistance to atmospheric corrosion of the type ATMOFIX, which the arbitration panel found to be less suitable for the design of the SO 202 bridge. The arbitration court thus ordered the contractors to pay ŘSD an amount of CZK 30 050 722 with interest of CZK 8 351 151. Amount granted to the CSD According to the arbitration panel's reasoning, the costs that ŘSD will have to incur for modifications to that motorway bridge in order to achieve the same service life as if it were made of carbon steel with corrosion coating. Finally, it can be concluded that in arbitration proceedings in which the ŘSD seeks to eliminate defects of buildings on the highway...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u9	I'll ask my colleagues in the room for some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u10	Thank you, Mr President. ... on the D4708.2, D47091/1 and D 47091/2 motorway and discounts on the price of the building D4708.2 due to the defects of construction buildings SO 228 and SO 229, ŘSD applied claims in the estimated amount of approximately CZK 3 billion. No decisions on the matter have yet been issued in these proceedings, but the contractors have removed a number of defects in these buildings. Also in the court proceedings before the District Court for Prague 1, in which ŘSD claims the removal of the defects of the building building building SO 104 building D4708.2, a decision has not yet been issued in the case. On the side of the District Court for Prague 1 was approached to discuss individual defects and carry out related evidence. As of 2017, that case was assigned to a new judge. In arbitration proceedings in which the ŘSD sought repayment of the amount of undue valuation of the prices of D47 motorway constructions, ŘSD applied claims amounting to approximately CZK 1.2 billion in aggregate. The arbitration panel assessed the claims claimed by the ŘSD as justified and ordered the contractors to pay in favour of the ŘSD an amount of more than CZK 290 million. The remaining claims of ŘSD amounting to more than CZK 900 million were assessed by the Arbitration Court as having already been suspended or in a small part as unjustified due to the co-incrimination of the ŘSD for the cause of the damage. As part of arbitration proceedings in which the ŘSD claims to pay a discount on the price due to a defect consisting in the incorporation of less than the relevant works contracts for a specified amount of steel into the constructions of some bridges and constructions of the D47 motorway, ŘSD applied claims of a aggregate amount of over CZK 166 million. No decision on the case has yet been given in those proceedings. In the arbitration procedure in which the ŘSD claimed discounts on the price due to a defect consisting of non-built-in contract for the work of a specified amount of common carbon steel, instead of which the contractors used steel with resistance to atmospheric corrosion, ŘSD applied a claim of a total amount exceeding CZK 200 million. The arbitration panel considered the claim to be justified by the ŘSD, but only at a level equivalent to the financial expression of the qualitative difference between normal carbon steel with corrosion protection and corrosion resistance to atmospheric corrosion of the type ATMOFIX. It therefore imposed an arbitration award issued in that procedure. The arbitration court will pay the contractors more than CZK 38 million in favour of ŘSD. Furthermore, let me introduce you to the contractor's position. From the contractor's opinion, Eurovia CS, requested by the Commission, it follows that the construction of D47 went through several levels of control provided by various employees of ŘSD, e.g. construction manager, technical supervision of the construction, technical supervision of the client and others, as well as external companies hired by ŘSD. According to the contractor, the Road and Motorway Directorate had detailed information about its course, procedures and materials used throughout the entire period. According to the contractor, it is also the fact that ŘSD did not draw attention to the defendant's defects and deficiencies when taking over the construction and also did not have any dialogue with the contractor on the substantial part of the defects claimed prior to the application. He even claimed a number of defects just before the lawsuits were filed. It follows from the hearing of the Chairman of the Board of Directors of Eurovia CS Martin Borovka that all the material used was established and agreed by ŘSD, as stated in the contract for work and procurement documents and supported by expert opinions. As regards the issue of damage to bridges, ŘSD did not comply with the rules of maintenance of bridges, which are defined by the standards of the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic and applicable standards, and therefore their degradation occurred. The Commission also requested the opinion of the Brno Transport Project, for which reason it recommended the use of the so-called "D47' for the construction of the D47 motorway. Cold roll, also NH, as a building material, although there was positive experience with high-pitched truss, so-called. Ride away, Hrabová. It follows from the opinion that due to the lack of hopper material, the ŘSD determined the coverage of this shortage by covering the bulk of the material and that the possibility of their use would be assessed in terms of both ecological and geodetic. [[10.20 hours]] The evaluation of these materials was ensured and passed on to ŘSD, plant Brno, as a basis for processing documentation on building permits. Also in the territorial decision No 204/1996 for the construction of D47 is mentioned under point 32 the assumption of the use of industrial waste of cold roll, rolling Hrabová. In the documentation for building permit, in the documentation for the award of constructions which were processed by the Transport Project for ŘSD, according to the request of ŘSD, the following materials were determined: blast slag from the Hrabovával, coal loušínová sypanina from the roll D mine Paskov and cold roll of NH. It follows from the above that for the construction in question the project documentation and subsequent documentation for the construction was already established in the territorial decision due to the alleged lack of hopper material and the ŘSD subsequently agreed all three hopper materials, i.e. Hrabová, coal rustic sypanina from the D-Dol Paskov and cold roll of NH. The necessary certificates were issued for all materials at that time. Furthermore, the Commission dealt with the issue of criminal proceedings. The issue of the implementation of the D47 motorway was also dealt with in criminal terms, for example in the context of the ŘSD initiatives, which, in the context of internal control procedures during the years 2011 to 2013, identified a number of facts suggesting that during the implementation of the D47 motorway constructions, persons acting on the contractor's side, ŘSD and other entities could commit serious crimes such as fraud, crime of violation of obligations in the management of foreign property, both intentionally and negligently, the crime of the complexion in the award of public contracts and in public competitions, etc. In order to investigate, the ŘSD referred to law enforcement authorities, in particular the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Ostrava, with a total of 12 initiatives. In particular, these were the facts relating to (a) the reimbursement of incorrectly determined valuation of the prices of D47 motorway constructions in the amount to which construction contractors were not entitled under the relevant works contracts, (b) the invoicing and reimbursement of works not actually carried out and buildings of non-built building materials, (c) the unauthorised substitution of building materials/soft types of steel and slag/ in some constructions of the D47 motorway. All initiatives submitted by the ŘSD were examined by the police authority, the then Department for the Detection of Corruption and Financial Crimes of the Criminal Police and the Investigation of the Exposure of Ostrava under No. OKFK3306/TC-2012-252501 and OKFK462/TC-2013-2501 and OKFK4049/TC-2013-252501, which issued these criminal cases in the course of 2013 and 2015 pursuant to § 159 para. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has failed to comply with the rules laid down by the Court of Justice of the European Union. Subsequent complaints for the order to postpone the case lodged by the ŘSD supervised by the Regional Prosecutor in Ostrava or the subsequent complaint for the supervision of the supervisory attorney's procedure to the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Olomouc were found to be unfounded. In February 2016, the ŘSD lodged a complaint with the Supreme Attorney in order to carry out the control provided for in Article 12 (1) of the EC Treaty. 3 Third Act No. 283/1993 Coll., on the Public Prosecutor's Office, as amended. According to the information on the complaint for inspection completed in Case No. 5NZN2642/2016-47 of 22 April 2016 it was decided that the Supreme Prosecutor of his legal right to order the control of the completed case will not be used. According to the notification - I quote: "It is important to state that the notified negotiations have been examined with several years of time. Any criminal activity could thus be demonstrated in particular by analysing contracts, invoices and other documents, as well as by explaining the persons concerned. All the procedures of the contractors concerning the implementation of the constructions, the quantity of material supplied, the method of invoicing and price valorisation have been agreed by the responsible representatives of the ŘSD and thus, on the contractor's side, it is not possible to establish the fulfilment of the criminal offence mark under Section 209 of the Criminal Code, since it was not found that anyone had misled anyone. Should it be possible to believe that those procedures were accepted by the responsible representatives of the ŘSD as a result of the corruption act by the contractors, the evidence found does not constitute a closed chain to the extent that the criminal liability of those persons who can successfully rely on the practice at the time prevailing within the ŘSD can be justified. Those negotiations were fully accepted at the time and cannot be classified prima facie as illegal or even criminal. In doing so, the police authority has carried out extensive evidence. Therefore, the reasons for the control regulation of the completed case were not found, since it is not clear what other evidence should be provided and how other evidence already provided could be evaluated so that the criminal liability of specific persons can be found on the basis of those assessments.' The state's attorney's citation. Allow me to introduce you to the final evaluation and the subsequent recommendation. First of all, it must be noted that the Commission's findings have repeatedly produced a fact of under-divided roles between the ŘSD and the Ministry of Transport, both in the preparation and subsequent implementation of the construction of the D47 motorway. This fact is considered by the Commission as one of the main problems related to D47 and in this context the Ministry of Transport asks the Czech Republic to increase control activity both in relation to ŘSD and construction contractors in general, that is to say concerning, and now forgive me for not quoting from the report, all line constructions that will be implemented in the future in the Czech Republic. The Commission also dealt with technical conditions issued by the Ministry of Transport in its activities, namely the technical conditions of TP 138 of 2000. This standard for the materials used in the natural bodies of line constructions contained the use of steel and blast furnace slag from Hrabová rolling and was based on laboratory tests of these slags and their earlier use on the previous section D47, which does not show any defects until now. In 2011, TP 138 changed, where the material used was expanded by the cold roll of NH. According to the information provided, the lack of sorted slag in the landfills was Hrabová. Unfortunately, prior to the amendment of the standard, there were no necessary checks and tests. The content of lime and waste decay was not checked if it was lying on the landfill for more than one year. From the above, the Commission may consider that changes to the technical conditions were made on purpose and only after the first finding of defects, suggesting the date of construction of the section D47 with claimed defects between 2002 and 2008 and the date of the ceremonial start of early operation from 1. 12. 2007. The first glitches of the ripple length of 300 meters have been dating since 2008. [[10.30 hours]] In its work, the commission also encountered the issue of warranty periods in line constructions. The Commission found from the protocol on the acceptance of individual building buildings on controlled damaged sections of D47 that all the buildings were gradually taken over according to completion, stating that they were okay and without any obvious defects. Since the takeover, the warranty period has started regardless of the possibility of using them. For bridge buildings it is a guarantee for insulation of 84 months, for other parts of 60 months. For road constructions there was a guarantee of 60 months. For most controlled sections of D47 showing defects, the warranty period expired in vain and the rest of the claim was realized at the upper limit of the warranty period in 2014. On the basis of the above findings, the Commission recommends reconsidering the method of taking over the individual buildings of the line constructions and replacing it by taking over the whole contracted section of the construction. At the same time, it would be appropriate in the works contracts to ensure that the warranty period starts at the earliest time when the early use of the building is authorised. Furthermore, the Commission considers it a serious problem that certain claims of ŘSD against contractors were found to be limited. The Commission considers it necessary for the CSA to sufficiently clarify how the limitation could be made, and not only in one case. This clarification should be provided to the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and the Chamber of Deputies. In conclusion, it should be noted that in its activities, the commission was significantly limited by the fact that so far all disputes which the ŘSD has had with the contractor of the constructions have not been finalized. The Commission therefore asks the ŘSD to carry out a detailed analysis of their progress, outcome and costs of legal representation after the end of these disputes. This analysis should be provided to the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and the Chamber of Deputies. To be sure, it's all final evaluation and recommendation. Furthermore, they are only and only annexes. The following is a total of eight resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies, which are from 2014, concerning previous checks, in 2016, there are a number of them, when the commission of inquiry stated and the commission of inquiry was set up in principle to D47 under my direction. It's also a witness list. Let me just quote in part, and let me mention first of all before I start quoting witnesses, so I would quote my colleagues. Originally in this resolution were appointed Jan Birke for Social Democracy, Olga Havlová for Dawn, Václav Klučka - Social Democracy, Petr Kudela - KDU-ČSL, Herbert Pavera - TOP 09 and Mayors, Stanislav Pfléger - YES 2011, Bronislav Schwarz - YES 2011, Zbyněk Stanjura - ODS and Karel Šidlo - KSČM. Of course, there was a breakup during the individual times, and only very much of it then came to be fulfilled by members of the ANO commission, when Jan Sedláček and Martin Sedlář joined the Commission, however, the commission did not fundamentally change, except that no representative of the Úsvit movement, who was the promoter of this commission, had ever returned to this committee, nor any representative of it. So let me read you a list of witnesses. The Commission heard . Jan Kroupa, current CEO of the Road and Motorway Directorate, Martin Borovka, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Eurovia CS, Inc. Petr Laušman, former CEO of the Road and Motorway Directorate, Ing Alfréd Brunclík, also former Director General of the Road and Motorway Directorate, . Josef Černý, former director of the Brno race Directorate of Roads and Motorways, Ing. Tomáš Mráček, construction manager, so called. checks on given sections, and Captain Mgr Petr Czineg, processor of the file ÚOKFK SKPV PČR, expositura Ostrava. Let me first of all thank my representative, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur, for his excellent cooperation and excellent representation during my absence, as President of the Commission. Furthermore, I'm sure for Karel Šidl's excellent work, who basically formulated the final consequences of the final report. I want to thank my colleague very much for that. I want to thank Václav Klučka, but also Petr Kudel, Herbert Paver, but I want to say that both the two representatives of the ANO movement, who, although at the last minute, were very actively involved in the work of the investigating committee. Ladies and gentlemen, that is roughly all I wanted to say in the context of the text of the committee of inquiry, and of course I can make a final resolution, but my question, Mr President, is whether I can do so now or in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u11	I would ask you to do so in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u12	So thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen, and that's it. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u13	Thank you to the chairman of the committee of inquiry. I now ask that the designated rapporteur, Mr Karel Šidlo, take the floor. And before the rapporteur comes, one more apology. Mrs Miroslava Strnadlová apologizes for today's meeting at 12 o'clock for personal reasons. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have heard the final report of the committee of inquiry on D47. I thank you for recognising my participation in the Commission's work to the President, on the other hand, I must say that as a member of the Commission, I participated in all the meetings of the Commission, so allow me to make a few comments on how I perceived the course of the negotiations. It is part of my report that all the negotiations that have taken place have been in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, and I am convinced that we have always sought a path that fits exactly with the legislation set up by the Commission. The only problem I saw and was a little unhappy with the entire committee of inquiry on D47 was the factor of time. The President said a few things here in the final report, and I would like to emphasise them again, and these were matters since the very creation of the committee of inquiry by the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which was in August 2014. In December 2014, we were specifically established by the Chamber of Deputies as members of this commission of inquiry. In April 2016, this means one and a half years after the election of the Chairman of the Commission of Investigation, which basically started the Commission's activities. In May immediately after the appointment of the President, two ANO colleagues left the Commission, and in September a colleague who initiated the functioning of the Commission for the Úsvit movement left. On 10 November 2016, two representatives were re-appointed for YES, and as already mentioned, úsvit no longer participated in the commission's activities. Everything was done in accordance with the House's Rules of Procedure and we tried to eliminate any possibility of attacking both the Commission's conduct and, of course, the Commission's final report in order not to question the fact that the nominees did not participate. [[10.40 hours]] In December 2016, we were forced as members of the Commission to ask the House for an extension of the deadline for the final report. It was originally stipulated that the Commission would submit a final report to the Chamber of Deputies after six months of its activity, and given the time obstructions and problems that had taken place, it was necessary to extend the deadline for the termination of the Commission's activities and also because one of the Witnesses was long-term ill and could not provide proper information until January of the following year, that is to say 2017. So, in the end, your resolution has succeeded in bringing the commission to an end by 31. 3. However, the problems with the Commission's activities do not end here. Let us remember that the Commission has submitted a final report on 20 March and look at its calendars for what date is today, when the Chamber of Deputies is only discussing the final report. Here, too, there is a time lag that corresponds essentially to the course of action. But the time factor also noted the Commission's activities. We encountered a few problems after the witness's summons, and they were linked to the fact that the commission is beginning to work on a case that is very distant in time, and some of the witnesses are no longer among us. That was a big problem. They were key witnesses who could open up more space for us to base our findings on concrete facts. Another moment, when the factor of time had a significant impact on the Commission's activities, was that the commission was active at the time when it had passed and in vain some warranty periods had expired, so it was very poorly assessed who caused the particular situation. This means, as has already been mentioned here, and in the report it is stated that neither arbitration, nor judicial proceedings can work with these facts, because there was actually no complaint period at a time when the defects began to be detected and the commission also began to investigate this problem in a great delay. Well, the last thing I think is very important. It should be said that this factor of time has an effect, of course, not only on the Commission's activities but also on the Commission's conclusions, because we were very limited by the fact that, at the time of the Commission's activities, the proceedings were initiated and, possibly, already in some cases, closed to the courts on arbitration, the dispute over the supply. And, of course, there were two litigations that were not closed from the point of view of time, and therefore the commission could not intervene in the living case and had to limit its investigation only to facts which could benefit from the submitted documentation by both the investor and the contractor, as well as, of course, the facts which were submitted to the Commission in their information by individual witnesses. This was also essentially decisive for how the Commission took the conclusion of its report, because there was a necessary degree of generalisation of processes relating to line construction and it was not possible to identify directly specific culprits involved in the fault of these problems, because a number of specific persons who had competence at both the level of the Ministry of Transport and at the level of the Road and Motorway Directorate were either not among us or were not in their functions because they left shortly after the exit and acceptance of the individual sections of the D47 motorway for which the investigation was made. So let me conclude by saying that the role of the commission was not at all simple. Your ideas and expectations may have been much higher, especially those who initiated the commission, but as rapporteur, I can say responsibly that, as members of the Commission, we have been very sensitive and detailed in trying to obtain all available information and, on the basis of that information, to draw a conclusion that the Chamber of Deputies can accept as a result of the Commission's work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u15	Thank you to the rapporteur. I will ask you to take a seat at the rapporteur's table and, together with me, follow the general debate that I am initiating. Mr Ludvík Hovorka was the first to join the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u16	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, I have come to know the final report and I must say that, in my opinion, the construction of D47 is an incredible sklendrian that has been realized in the Czech Republic. If you look at the information from this report, for example, the remaining claims of ŘSD in the amount of 900 miles. The Crowns have already been assessed by the Arbitration Court as a statute of limitations. After all, someone from ŘSD who was a building overseer had to know what the terms were, the appropriate deadlines for the limitation of claims for damages. Or how is it possible that steel was built into bridge objects that weren't supposed to be there because atmofix was supposed to be there? This clearly lays down the conditions which are processed for the operation of ŘSD. This means that someone has violated internal regulations that the Ministry of Transport and ŘSD have for transport constructions. After all, there is someone responsible for signing the agreement to deposit the reinforcement, with the permission of the concrete building, and so on, a building log must be supported. And if something like this happened, it is not possible to find out on the basis of accounting evidence that it is found that there was actually far less steel and that there was steel other than prescribed. Or a report that bridge conclusions were poorly constructed, bearings that some bearings had actually ceased to function shortly after the construction was opened. After all, these are fundamental things that threaten the stability of the construction and functionality of the work in the case of bridge structures. Those are the things that make sense stand over. Where was building supervision or investor supervision, please? Where were the employees of ŘSD or state-owned companies hired for this supervision? And here I think that the final resolution should be directed so that something like this cannot be repeated on other construction sites. We know we have problems with the D8 motorway with bridge supports and pillars at Prackovice. Please, these are all things that keep happening. And here I think that we should act as a proper caretaker and also lead the Ministry of Transport and its subordinate organizations as ŘSD to act as a proper caretaker. And it is not possible to ignore this report with the fact that fundamental things have happened and that the same people and the same companies will continue to operate on public procurement, on constructions that cost billions of taxpayers' crowns and which must be repaired immediately after a short time. It says here that the claims applied led to a number of buildings where the claims were corrected. But that's a terrible shame. It is a terrible embarrassment for supply companies as well, but especially for the state that his people, his people, who carried out investor supervision at the construction site, failed. And it is not possible for these people to continue their work on other public procurements. [[10.50 hours]] A separate problem is the problem of slag, which was incorporated into the body of the highway. It was said that the appropriate certificates were documented. However, I think that on every construction site, on every major road and road construction, there are also people who perform the tests. This means testing material that is incorporated into the road or motorway, and not only into its own body, let's say concrete or asphalt cover, but also into the ground. That means someone had to pass the exams. And if it turns out that the construction company proves that all the certificates were correct, I ask: Has the result of the tests also been documented? Because there it could be revealed that poor quality material was used and that someone had to decide that the poor quality material would be used in such a volume in the draught of the earth's body. For these reasons, as I have said here, I would like to table three motions for a resolution on the final report of the commission of inquiry: 1. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Government to determine the specific liability of state organisations, companies and persons supervising the investor in public contracts for damage caused by the State to perform poor supervision on the constructions of the D47 motorway and the late application of the claim which caused the limitation of these claims. 2. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government not to allow companies and natural persons responsible for the damage and late application of the investor's claim on the construction of D47 to continue to supervise the investor's constructions commissioned by the state and state organisations. 3. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government to ensure that all documents relating to significant transport structures are archived throughout the lifetime of the construction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u17	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u18	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the final report of the Committee of Investigation on D47. This committee of inquiry was set up under tremendous pressure to find out the truth about why the highway was rippled. The investigation committee, and here it has already been said, has encountered the problem of timeline, the problem of data tracking due to the passing of time. Nevertheless, it has adopted a conclusion that we may not like many, but in my view it is serious and clearly shows the directions for possible further action. Because the next procedure in this matter is what was the main thing, why this commission was set up. As a citizen of the Moravian-Silesian Region, I use this transport construction, a significant transport construction of our region, and I am very interested in what will happen next. Therefore, personally, I am very sorry that the Minister of Transport is not here. This is a key material concerning the Ministry of Transport. This is the core material that should be the basis for him, the Alpha and the Omega of future cooperation with the Road and Motorway Directorate. This material reveals the problems of this Directorate of Roads and Motorways. And if it were short-term problems, if it were personnel problems, I'd be able to understand. But these are the systemic, long-term problems that this report has uncovered. It's not one director's fault, it's not one engineer's fault, it's one building supervisor. This is the basic system problem of the construction of transport infrastructure under the leadership of the Road and Motorway Directorate. Let's just say that. This report speaks of this. How will the Minister of Transport react? This report was already available to him, just like all of us. I expected him to be here, come forward and say a few words as he perceives the conclusions of this report, and especially what he wants to do so that it cannot happen again, and what solution he offers. We're not gonna hear that today, and I'm afraid we're not gonna do it until the election. The water is to be closed over this problem. There's still lawsuits going on, so let's wait, let's stay out of court, let's leave it at that. Those who actually caused it aren't there anymore, there are others, new ones. Actually, it's okay. But it's wrong! We can't allow this kind of procedure! And I expect the Minister of Transport to come. Not perhaps today on this point, but it will give its opinion on this report, or the Minister's written opinion should be drawn up and forwarded to us by the Members, as he sees this report, what he wants to say in particular about the solution. I want to go back to one thing that follows from the report and has not yet been mentioned here, and that is the nature of the Ministry of the Environment. This clue, which in a way stood above - I welcome the Minister of the Environment, came just in time. [[Minister Brabec comes to the government bench]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u19	He just came up with a lead. Yes, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u20	Thank you. The clue that's given here, it goes like that thread. How was the material selected for the basement of the highway? Why was the material chosen and not another? It responds, answers this report and says: he was here on a task - to consume the bounces, to consume the poor quality material within... And that is the role of the Ministry of Environment, the improvement of the environment. And then someone modified the standard to consecrate the steps that were taken. This is the second moment that follows from this report, and I will be very happy to have the Minister of the Environment present here, unlike the Minister of Transport, state his position, and how he wants to investigate how the standard was handled, the regulation that modified the technical parameters of the roll-out, so that it can be used for road transport and the construction of the D47 motorway. In my opinion, this is also a big problem for the future, because we build motorways, we build line constructions, and we use bounces, or raw materials that have a technical problem with their non-homogeneity... And we need to be able to rely on the technical reports and the technical results of the verification of these materials, that once we put them on that highway, they won't wave and smack in six months. Who verified and confirmed all this, and what did it come from? He gave us the prescription, so we put it there. This is a question that must be answered, and I believe that the Ministry of the Environment, which is gently mentioned in this material, will deliver an opinion and will say how it has been handled and, above all, how it will be progressed in the future with this material and with these problems arising from these conditions. One more thing is not there, and that is the political plane of decision-making, responsibility. There was a Minister of Transport in this country, Bárta's name, who may have stood at the birth of these problems by his incompetent decision-making in the field of transport, in the field of construction. We all remember, at least we, who had perceived the policy in the regions, his bountiful rides, when he stopped transports from the window of his service limousine. "He's not gonna build here, I don't believe it." When he got out of the limo, he said, "Yeah, this is where it should be built, because it's for the best." Without any evidence, any solution. What is the political responsibility of former government officials for the actions they have taken? [[11.00 hours]] Let us also consider whether the former Minister, today I do not know where he is at the end, or in which political party or movement he tries to continue his political career and influence the events of the Czech Republic's policy. But it is necessary to focus on this political plane of this case, because it has also played its part in the way everyone involved has acted. And that is why I would very much like to remember this level, because this plane may be at the beginning of everything we're dealing with here today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u21	I thank Mr Luzar. I have two factual points and one priority right. First, Mr Petrtýl, then Mr Kudela, then President Stanjura with priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u22	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when I heard this report and because I was a builder, I really listened to it with a mute amazement, because there really was a huge error, especially in the performance of the technical supervision of the investor. This is unbelievable. But what I was most surprised at was that the construction manager was able to use a different fittings, less fittings, into bridge structures. It really must be a very rude forehead, this is really about life. But I don't want to just defy those firms that run or anything. But I can see a little bit of a problem here, because it's public procurement, when those firms are forced to, or those prices are so trampled down, they're forced to look for some savings. That's what I said to finish. Of course, there's no way I can agree with that. And that it's used in such huge volumes of material that isn't tested, so that's really surprising. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u23	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Kudela and his point of order, after which Mr Čihák with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u24	Mr President, gentlemen of the Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as a citizen of the Moravian-Silesian Region, the people of Ostrava, I was looking forward to the D47 motorway, which, as we expected, will "connect with the world." We did it. Nevertheless, the completion of the construction was followed by some disappointment. When the foundation stones first started knocking, and when the first information came out that the construction would be built by a foreign investor, I was very embarrassed myself at the time. And I didn't like the contract with Housing and Construction back then. Maybe today makes me sad. Why? Because under the management of Housing and Construction, the first part of the motorway was built by the same companies that built the D47 motorway from the same materials, and that section is still the oldest, even without error. So that's a real problem in the hands. The use of local materials, waste materials, has proved to be a key problem, because the construction of the D47 motorway, which is built in other sections without the use of local resources, i.e. the Ostrava cold wave, is fine. Of course, at that time, material expansion was not measured. Everyone says there's all kinds of garbage, but the problem isn't failing, it's swelling. It is behind us, I firmly believe that we will learn that there will be no changes in the construction during the implementation and so on, because all these were the causes of today's failed state. I have participated in the Commission's conclusions and I agree with the conclusions and please support them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u25	I thank Mr Kudel. Mr Čihák and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also listened in detail to the report read here by colleague Honza Birke. I made some notes. And since I also know something about the construction, I am so sorry that the Ministry of Transport critics have been heard here. The Minister cannot be here today for work reasons, and all I can say is that the reorganisation of the ŘSD, which is an organization of the Ministry of Transport, is being done. And, of course, these are mistakes that must be eliminated for the future. But the fact that environmental criticism, or the Ministry of the Environment, has also been heard here is complete nonsense and we must distance ourselves from that. Every supplier who worked on that construction site, and the head of the association were companies quoted, it was Strabag and Eurovia, so I have to tell you, those companies have their accredited laboratories. And then there was another independent lab, which was under the guidance of engineer Mráček. And I can tell you that the materials that were there were actually approved. The Department of the Environment has absolutely nothing to do with this. These accredited labs are gonna make sure the material that was there was good. If the companies used other materials themselves, then those who weren't on the committee would have told us that, they were the builders. And not just calling on the committee Mr. Engineer Borovka, who I respect, but he doesn't really know anything about it. Then I noticed that most of the directors of ŘSD were summoned, people who actually had something to do with the construction, but you would have learned the truth from those who worked at the construction site. I'm sorry there wasn't a critique of the supplier and just a criticism of the ŘSD and the Ministry of Transport.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u27	Thank you. Mr. President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u28	I have to make a few comments on this after listening to the debate. First, it is a pity that the members of the ANO movement did not participate in the whole section. They could have designed other witnesses, if necessary. We had technical supervision and building managers there, we had, we talked to them. I mean, the committee acted in public, but not in secret. There's no secret fact, so whoever wants to, I think they can get to know the stacks of documents that are there. In particular, I recommend this to those who are experts in this area, because they will understand and will see for themselves how difficult it is. Let's go from the top. The first problem became the conclusion of a so-called advantageous contract, as if PPP project Housing and Construction. Prime Minister Miloš Zeman. There was a contract signed, which was then ceded to Eurovia. That's for the record. The state for Prime Minister Špidla bought himself out of this contract for 700 miles. Crowns. Each of you, for example, who is in the region, knows how many second- and third-class communications can be repaired in 700 miles. Crowns. It cost us just to withdraw from this disadvantageous contract. If we're gonna talk about political responsibility, let's start at the beginning. This was also noted by the first committee of inquiry on D47, I no longer know how many periods it is back, at least two, maybe three parliamentary periods. And who wants to look into the problem in more detail, I recommend, as we did, that before inviting witnesses, we read what our predecessors did. I don't know if it's been eight or ten years. I'm sure it was before 2010, the investigation committee. I have to find my notes here that I've made on some of these materials. We've become experts, what's a blasting slag, a steel slag, a cold roll of New Hut and a cold roll of Hrabová. Then let's translate it into Czech. [[11.10 hours]] Cold roll - what do you think it is? It's a dump. The dump! I don't know who invented the poetic and misleading name cold roll, it sounds very good. A dump. If I remember the number correctly, either the President or Mr Šidlo will fill me in - 5 million tons was used as a base. Five million tons, which, of course, was a task that ŘSD did not invent itself. There was also a problem with the landfill in the region. Let's face it. The fact that at some point, the blast slag that was to be used in the upper layers, because it was in the lower layers, and the landfill, none of the experts is questioning that, is the result of a political decision. There was a delay. We in our region were rightly nervous and demanded every government to speed up the construction of the motorway to the Moravian-Silesian Region. Then so many sections began to be built at the same time that suddenly the specified material was not, and the steel slag began to be used. And now there's something I call a college duel, not a politician. ŘSD has expert opinions from ČVUT Praha, which say: behind the fact that the highway is running, it is rolling, can be steel slag, it was not sufficiently tested. The contractor is equipped with opinions by experts, experts of other faculties, University of Mining, Technical University, which says the exact opposite. I admire every one of us or every one of you who says which one of these experts is right. We weren't able to pinpoint it on the committee. They all have the same authority, they all work in universities, they all have the same round stamp, and the conclusions are completely contradictory. That's why the courts and arbitrations are taking place. If we talk about political responsibility, let's see when the treaties were concluded. I was talking about the basic one. That was for Prime Minister Zeman. And if I take the individual sections. For example, the problematic section D47 08.2, the contract concluded on 2 September 2003. Next section - contract concluded on 25 September 2003. Next section - contract concluded 21. 4. 2004. Next section - contract concluded on 18 October 2004. I don't want to say who ruled at the time, who was the Minister of Transport and who was the head of the Road and Motorway Directorate. I'm just pointing out the fact that Mr. Šídlo was talking about. In 2016, it was as if to investigate the circumstances of the emergence or what happened when the contracts were signed in 2004, 2003 and before that, it is not really possible and we have honestly admitted this in the report. And I'm just saying, they were contractor contracts. Before that, there had to be competition for the contractor, as well as for the competition and processing of project documentation, implementation documentation and so on. Mr Šídlo pointed out correctly throughout the Commission and in the final report: we suspect a deliberate change in the methodology, which was an ex post methodological instruction. It's also described in the report. For those of you who are from the construction industry again. I'm sure they understand this very well, and they're able to compare it and tell us if they're leaning towards our suspicion that it was purposeful. But it's already been done. It's already been done, 5 million tons saved. The key task today is for this highway to be repaired. To serve as it should. That's what interests the citizens of my country. In the second line, who's to blame? I want to appreciate the approach, and you know that I am quite critical of the opposition, but I want to appreciate the approach of the Road and Motorway Directorate and the existing leadership, in particular the Director-General, to the work of the Commission and to the documents we wanted. He was competent, even though we know it wasn't during his period. If we asked for any more evidence, we got them. I say, these are stacks and stacks of technical documentation documents. It is not at all easy to orientate yourself and to compare individual claims. For example, one of you suspects that it should be swept under the carpet when the lawsuits are over. But without the lawsuits, we can't do the sum. If Mr Hovorka proposes a resolution, I do not have a problem with that in principle. So how can the government, and you know that I'm not a fan of this government, how can the government mark the culprits if the lawsuit isn't over and I don't know if it's gonna be won by the state or by the other side? Do you know why we used a private meeting? Although I say there were no classified documents. We've tried and we're trying, and that's why I'm not saying some things today so that we don't make the state's position in these disputes difficult, and we can do that. Steno records of the Chamber of Deputies, minutes from the committee of inquiry may be documents which may be used in litigation and arbitration proceedings. So we've been led by effort, I say we all, regardless of political affiliation, don't make the position of state worse. What we have criticized quite rightly, and here the culprit can be found, and it is also in the original recommendation of the Commission. The state lost some disputes not because it was wrong, but because of limitation. And that's reprehensible, that's for sure, and the culprit must be found. As a result, it is not possible that a particular person in charge of this is not responsible and who was required to register in due time - or unauthorised - it is decided by the court, but by the state's claims. So lose the lawsuit, respectively. arbitration on grounds of limitation is disgrace, reprehensible, and here the culprit can be found, because decisions about the limitation are already final. And it's very simple there. Just look into the organizational structure, find out who had legal responsibility, find out who was in office at the time. And this is a person who is responsible and who has actually caused damage to the state by the fact that the state could not claim its claims because of limitation. When you look at the closed proceedings, whether they're litigation or arbitration proceedings, the state has usually won where there was no reason for limitation. Not in full. That's where the argument was about the unauthorized valorization. That's where the state won. He got some funds back. I think there are five disputes at this point. Of which one in the district court, which is the first instance, we can estimate when the final decision will be made, and four disputes run in arbitration, I don't know if it's the committee, or I don't know exactly when I'm gonna give arbitration proceedings, to be exact. So at least on the issue of limitation, I think that you can find specific culprits and the state must consider how it should deal with them and what options are there. Because it's been a while since the court decided on the statute of limitations. And I'm not a lawyer to... so laymanly say, can't the fact that someone caused the state to be silenced? From my layman's point of view, yes. I think many have changed in these procedures of the Road and Motorway Directorate. Not that it's ideal, but I think a lot's gotten better. What they haven't discovered and what they haven't come up with, and it is a problem that is once again described in the conclusions of our committee. We like to build individual sections and those sections also have individual buildings, which are tens. And the S.O.D., I don't know why, it takes over gradually. No offense, but if one building object is taken over, there's a guarantee running, a guarantee start. Yet the communication is not used. This means that before I get the whole section up and running, some buildings are almost finished, or the warranty period is over, and there is no real guarantee. That's our commission's recommendation. Let them take over, but it must be a system that the guarantee runs when the whole section is opened and not individual building objects. When you talk to me, you kind of upset me about what I was gonna say. I'm going through my notes. Maybe I'll just repeat what I said. At this point it is crucial to correct, offer quality communication, quality highway, change methodological guidelines. In the more general remark that we need to transform the ŘSD, so I'm not really going to defend the Ministry here. It was ready, it was stopped, nothing happened during the four-year term. The contribution organisation ŘSD is an extremely disadvantageous form for the state. The only real chance you can manage this is to replace the CEO, which your transport minister has done about four times, and that leads nowhere. Some want to transform ŘSD into a state enterprise. I think it's a false move. I would add to it being a state-owned public limited company with 100% participation in the state, so that the state could, whether in the management, especially in the supervisory bodies of its representation and could control ŘSD on a regular basis, not ad hoc, and then at the last minute when there is a big problem, replace the CEO. This brings instability and things like that. [[11.20 hours]] Let's not be wrong about talking about highways. We have similar problems on the railway - generally in investor preparation. So you need to think. There's an organizational structure a little bit better than in the case of roads and highways, but it's not ideal. When I talk a little bit in general, I think that, again, a much better model in the future would be to take care of only the tolled communication, and we can have a debate on how many of them are to be charged, and the others left to the regions, at the same time, but with adequate financial collateral, without that, of course, it doesn't make any sense. But it seemed logical to me, because, for example, we citizen democrats, who say that the myth should primarily play a regulatory role, are losing to those who say that the myth is to economic income. And if they're winning today, I fully respect that, those who say that the myth is for us to raise money so that we have to restore communications, it's logical for us to renew the communications we pay on, from the money we collect, because it's not nearly enough anyway. But it would be logical for him to correct and keep what I'm paying for to stay in the future. Otherwise, even the quality of the motorways we build falls over time if there is no quality maintenance. I know this message can affect someone in the spirit of a famous film - the investigation is over, forget it. But that's not what the message says. I really have no problem supporting - I just flew through the resolution prepared by Mr Hovorka this quickly, but I am sure that any government cannot actually implement it in the near future. We may like it or not, but the lawsuits continue. And there are several problems. Unauthorized valorization - there is a state successful if there was no statute of limitations. Then there's a dispute about quantity, if I say it simply, the amount of steel in the bridges, that's where the disputes are going, and that's where the results aren't so clear. And then there's this key argument about the materials, and it's not actually decided there yet, here's what I'm saying, an expert duel, a faculty duel. And we have to stand by and wait for the result. But we are much more interested in the Moravian-Silesian region when it will be repaired than in 1999, 2002, 2004, 2006 - add any date from the start of the preparation of the construction to the takeover of the section - who actually caused it. Not that it's not important, but it's second place. First should be repair, quality repair of low-quality sections of the highway, now D1, not D47, because it is towards the Moravian-Silesian region, therefore it is logically the first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u29	Thank you to President Stanjur. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to welcome special guests. The gallery was attended by the President of Parliament of the Kyrgyz Republic, his Excellency Čynybaj Akunovič Tursun Bekov with delegations who are here on official visit at the invitation of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome. [[Members get up and applaud.]] Thank you. And now I have three factual points. First of all, Mr Pavel Čihák, followed by Mr Ludvík Hovorka, followed by Mr František Laudát. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u30	Thank you for the floor. I made a few notes at Stanjura's exit again. Several questions were raised. Like who's right about the material. CTU? The Mining Authority? It's about the slag where we thought that now we know what slag is, now we know what's rolling it, etc., what's steel, we've learned a lesson here today, that's okay. I'll tell you where it is. It's in the discipline of technicians who import materials from piles. When we built part of the D4 motorway earlier, R4, at Příbram, for example, we had a similar situation when we were using piles, which are also actually waste from mining activities. It was just about taking the right material and putting it in the ground as it should be. And there was a check from the side of the ŘSD completely fine. To this day, there is no problem. At D47, and I was at the construction site, too, so I know how it went down there, and I can tell you that the non-discipline was very significant there, and it was an undisciplination of the companies that I introduced. That's one thing. The key thing that Stanjura mentioned - to fix the highway. Yes. But at what cost? For the price that the taxpayer, when I added up the things that are currently forgiven to suppliers, it is about 600 million crowns that the taxpayer will actually pay by forgiving it, now it closes, the whole thing will be done again and it will be paid by the state. Wrong. The designation of the culprits is not because there are disputes. [[Attention on time.]] They're not. They're not guilty. But the culprits also have to be specific, and without that, they won't be able to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u31	Thank you. Mr Ludvík Hovorka and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u32	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, honourable Members, I can agree with my colleague Stanjura that it is essential for drivers and citizens from the Moravian-Silesian Region that the motorway should be well-traveled without any restrictions and that the construction is in order. But I think that for all citizens of the Czech Republic, it is essential for taxpayers to have systemic changes, that is, something similar, so that a similar schlendrian cannot be repeated. And that is what the three resolutions I have tabled for you are all about. The fact that the investigation isn't over is one thing. But the second thing is that you have some concrete experience with who carried out construction supervision on which construction site, if it was a specific ŘSD worker, or it was a designated firm and so on. So I think this is quite clear. And if there was a bad experience with these people, I don't think such people and such companies should continue to supervise investors in other important constructions. I think it's quite obvious, and it doesn't have to be completed by then. It's just that if I have experience with someone who didn't work for me at the construction site, I'm not gonna use it anymore. That's every citizen's experience, not just the state. And if the state follows this, it will avoid possible problems in the future. So please support my resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u33	Thank you. Mr Laudát, Mr Stanjura after him, Mr Šidlo after him, Mr Čihák after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u34	Thank you. Very briefly. First of all, I thank the President and the entire committee for the work. It's a shame that some of them have resigned, because something to explore with such a distance and, of course, with the purpose of such events, which is also my personal experience, is losing documentation, so it is difficult. I would just very much like the Ministry of Transport to exert sufficient pressure on its investor ŘSD and really go after the faults of the various forfeiture, limitation and so on, because the situation will be repeated in the future. And you, who will be here after the next election, I would ask very much that when there is a construction law, and really not a novelty, but a major one, there are very bad processes happening in our construction business. Large independent engineering companies are disappearing to do technical supervision. It's getting intertwined. Even construction companies are purposefully setting up some kind of pseudo-firms. And to be honest, for everything that's being driven there, the builders will not be others, but what's happening on the site must be hard, independent and uncompromising surveillance. And this is where he obviously failed. And I don't care if there was a private firm, I wasn't on the committee or the ŘSD. [[11.30 hours]] Another thing is that it really needs to be put on the feet of another ŘSD. It is not possible to transform it, it is simply necessary to establish a new trading company owned by a state that will have a responsibility, as well as economical, its principals. I can't go on like this. They're dying, they didn't get the money for the labs so they could do it. What happens in Czech constructions... In Germany, it is not an option for anyone to simply carry cold materials for construction. That's where the gear or the caterer wouldn't get laid next time. Of course, in this case, because these are huge values, huge risks, huge damage, which then comes with a fix, so it really needs to be in this business just... If someone makes such a gross mistake, take full responsibility. Designers, all of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u35	Thank you. President Stanjura, Mr Šidlo after him, Mr Čihák after him. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u36	Thank you, I'll have a brief deed. On this motion for a resolution by Mr Hovorka. I'm gonna ask him to take my possible modifications as his own. At that first point, you say that the government is to establish specific responsibilities for national organisations of natural persons. I don't have a problem with it, I just don't think the damage, if any, could only have been caused by poor supervision. They could also have been caused by a disadvantageous change in the contractual relationship, so it doesn't just have to be supervised, among other things, so if it were more general, it would certainly be better. Point three, nothing. He's perfectly fine. To point two. I understand in particular the natural persons who worked for the state, but tell me how the government, not the UOHS or the court, the government can prevent any company from participating in a public contract and possibly winning a public contract. We have mechanisms for this that are in the Public Procurement Act. It's small, but there are some. But surely the government can't do it. Now I can't rephrase it, I'm just saying that even if we give the task, each government will answer you: point two, we're not capable of fulfilling it, we don't have the legal prerequisites to rule any company out of trial and competition by decision of the government. I really don't think so. I understand the idea, I think it's right, but we either need to rephrase it or keep it sometime next time, because the government can't really do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u37	Thank you. Mr Šidlo, Mr. Čihák after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u38	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will only respond to Mr Čihák because he spoke here on the subject of the materials used. Of course, the commission felt that the big problem was the materials used to the bottom of the highway body, but we have to rely on the facts that they are. If an investor, whether the ŘSD and its supervisor the Ministry of Transport, issues technical conditions specifically named technical conditions 138 for the use of materials which thus obtain a certificate for specific constructions, then none of the suppliers or control mechanisms can change the material, because we could not find out that any of them had broken anything. We had the diaries submitted, we had the Kubatura presented, we had the places from where it came from, the companies that drove it, so clearly no one broke anything. There is only the question of under which conditions the technical conditions 138 have been changed and adapted, I will say frankly, and how the materials have been identified as certified. Then there's the next question, and that's the testing in the labs. I don't want to argue about that, but the bottom line is that in a basically simple and primitive way, we imagine that someone would deliberately confuse something and fail to follow the project is wrong. Same thing, here's the question of the steel. If the steel was used, it was not used without the investor's consent. The steel has no flaw in its strength, stiffness, but it has a problem in its anticorrosive long-term lifespan. And it was supposed to happen a little differently, and therefore also the steel that was used was much more expensive than the one that should have been used with paint. That's another problem. So it's not a violation -- sorry, just a word -- that the supplier would deliver something of his own will differently. [[Time is a problem, too.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u39	Thank you. Mr Čihák and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u40	Thank you. For the last time, to Karel Šidl. Yes. Technical conditions 138 had clear rules. It wasn't about changing the material, it was about technological discipline, which was probably badly controlled there. That's one of the things that probably hurt the song after. If what was to be done was placed in the lower layers, i.e. roll over, and the top layers have already been put in a slag that was of good quality, so it should hold it as it should until today. But something must have broken in there. That's just the TP 138. A colleague of Stanjur. That's where he got into some sort of RSD evaluation. I'll tell you, in exchange for the CEO of ŘSD, nothing would change because, of course, Mr. . Kroupa is one of the few directors who knows what he's talking about, and he's really from practice. And so am I. I can say that I appreciate his work, which he earned because he was actually in the practice. And it's not easy, the team that's currently in there isn't a good team, but I've already talked about that. We have actually spoken to our Minister on this subject several times, and the change in the joint stock company, as you said, is the way to go back to the people who have left. And I think it's very important for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u41	Thank you. Mr Laudát and his factual point, followed by Mr Stanjura and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm just talking about what was going on here. You know, it's also very important how an investor, in this case the Road and Motorway Directorate, makes contracts at all those levels, starting with the designer, technical supervision and ending the supplier. Because, of course, I don't know, but in my years, when investments were made, we also had in the contracts that the contractor of the work is obliged to verify all the operations, all the certificates and pass on some kind of responsibility to them. It then if the responsibility, and this obviously happened here and it happens, is transferred only to the investor, so with him, pardonfully, everyone fucks up. Someone will write the certificates, the supplier will deliver it accordingly. Next thing you know, there's... And for me, it's shocking that someone's starting to count from the partial acceptances of individual building buildings a warranty period. Please, it has historically been done even in socialism and after that, that there were partial acceptances, but it has not started to run a housewarming period, i.e. a warranty period. The partial acceptances were then summised into the overall acceptance of the whole work, which was simply an administration, and of course the warranty period has to run by housewarming. I really think, as I have always been the protector of the highway headquarters, so I think it's in such a state that I would prefer to cut and set up a new organization myself today. Of course, it wouldn't have been any fun in the long run to make the relationship, to finish the commitments with the old ŘSD, and gradually the actions of the new ŘSD would have started, but otherwise I don't think it would have been possible. You can't teach an old dog new tricks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u43	Thank you. President Stanjura and his point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u44	I must respond to Mr Čihák's speech, who probably didn't understand me at all. I'm sorry. You went to defend the current CEO, whom I allegedly proposed to withdraw. You didn't listen to me. Firstly, I commended him, and secondly, I said that until we change form, and in general, the only way that the Minister, any Minister of Transport, can intervene in the exchange of the Director General. Well, then, I'm retreating! I just said it the other way around. I commend the current CEO, and you come to protest that I want to call him off! I don't know how you figured that out. I didn't say anything like that, or I wouldn't have come here anymore. But don't translate my words from Czech to Czech! Did you hear I commended him for accessing the committee? I did. At the same time, I said he wasn't in any position to influence it. And then I only responded in the general part that after four years of thinking, your transport minister figured out that he could transform it. That's a little late. It was prepared, at least basic parameters, transformation. In both variants. A state enterprise that I didn't support, and a joint-stock company that I support because I think it's better. And that's it. So no one's suggesting anyone to appeal. And I could have some ministers, but it almost doesn't matter, does it? No one's A.S.D.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u45	Thank you. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If no one else applies to the general debate, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u46	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I listened very closely to the debate, thank you for it. Let me just make some really good points. We have made very difficult final recommendations. And once again, I quoted him here on a microphone, you all have it in writing. However, it is a reaction to the three things that have been mentioned here. Let me just give it a brief quote. "At the same time, it would be appropriate to ensure that the warranty period starts at the earliest time when early use is authorised." This is a response through Mr President to colleague Stanjura, colleague Laudát and colleague Šidl, who spoke about it and I think Mr Čihák mentioned it too. Furthermore, the Commission considers that some of the requirements of the Road and Motorway Directorate towards the contractors were found to be limited. That's the time, that's the obvious, that's the thing that's essential. At the same time, it should be noted that the Commission's activities have been greatly limited by the fact that there are disputes. Well, that's the summary from my point of view. Otherwise, I want to join the evaluation of the current Director of the Road and Motorway Directorate of Jan Kroupa. I consider the current director to be one of the most capable people there. And I think it's a match here, and I think it was a match, and it was called as a witness, and I have to say, the overview of the company, it was just amazing what he had in mind about the company. And just one last remark, please. Of course, we voted on this final report, the text, the recommendations and everything. I just want to mention that everyone has expressed a positive voice and voted in favour of the report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u47	Thank you for the final word. I am opening a detailed debate in which Mr Šidlo has applied. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. In a detailed debate, I just want to say that I should finish playing the role of rapporteur that 11 colleagues, some repeatedly, spoke during the general debate with a technical reminder. And then there were three shows. There was a resolution in one of these speeches, Mr Hovorka, and I have the resolution in front of me. So if then before my own vote, I would prefer him to vote on him first. And then we would vote on the standard resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the D47 report. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u49	Thank you. Now duly signed up for a detailed debate by Mr Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, dear colleagues, I have modified the resolutions that I tabled in the general debate just a little after the debate that took place here. So now I'm going to introduce you to the final text. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requests the Government of the Czech Republic 1. on the determination of the specific liability of state organisations, firms and natural persons carrying out the supervision of the investor in respect of public contracts for damage caused by the State, inter alia. the performance of poor surveillance on the constructions of the D47 motorway and the late application of the claims which caused the limitation of these claims; 2. to ensure that companies and natural persons responsible for the damage and late application of the investor's claim to the construction of D47 are no longer allowed to supervise the investor's constructions provided by the State and state organisations; 3. that all documents for major transport structures be archived throughout the lifetime of the buildings." It is also based on the recommendation of Mr Stanjura, that there should be legal possibilities in particular in point 2, i.e. some of the location on the blacklist, etc., so I've complied with the objections that have been raised here. Thank you for your attention and please support these resolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u51	Thank you. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If no one reports, I will conclude a detailed debate and ask the rapporteur to introduce us to the motions for resolutions, and I will put them to a vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u52	Thanks again for the word. As I indicated in the detailed debate, we would first vote on Mr Hovorka's motion for a resolution. I'm just not done with him, if he wants to do it on points or as a whole. On points, well, so I propose, Mr President, on points. Can I read, then?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u53	If no one objects to this procedure, I suppose not, then we will vote. I ask you to lecture on individual points, and I will put them to a vote. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby, and I'll have you all checked out. Please sign up with your voting cards. And I beg you, rapporteur, to present the first part of the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u54	"The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic 1 to determine the specific liability of state organisations, companies and natural persons supervising the investor for public contracts for damages caused by the State, inter alia. the performance of poor surveillance on the constructions of the D47 motorway and the late application of the claims which caused the limitation of these claims.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u55	I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 166, registered 115 Members, for 66, against none, the proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u56	Next point. "2. to ensure that firms and natural persons responsible for the damage and late application of the investor's claims on the construction of D47 will no longer be allowed to supervise the investor in constructions awarded by the State and state organisations.'
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u57	I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 167, 119 Members and Members, for 65, against none, the proposal has been adopted. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u58	"3. that all documents for major transport structures be archived throughout the lifetime of the buildings."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u59	I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 168, registered 122 Members, for 80, against none. This proposal, too, would be adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u60	Another motion for a resolution is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 56th meeting on the Final Report of the Committee of Investigation of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for the examination of serious errors, which occurred during the preparation and implementation of the construction of the D 47 motorway: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Final Report of the Commission of Investigation of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic for the examination of serious errors which occurred during the preparation and implementation of the construction of the D47 motorway."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-002-338.u61	I am opening the vote on this motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 169 vote, 123 Members and Members signed up, for 91, against none. This proposal has also been adopted. This has dealt with all the resolutions, and I am done discussing this point. I thank the President of the Commission and the rapporteur. I'm gonna load up some apologies. Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes today from 10.50 for personal reasons, Mr Tomio Okamura apologises until 11.30 for work reasons and Mr Adam from 12 for personal reasons. Petr Adam, I'm sorry to be clear. The next item is the item
