ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u1	351. Information from the Prime Minister to increase the salaries of social services workers According to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 57th meeting of 24 May this year, the Chamber of Deputies asked the Government to ensure an increase in salaries for social services workers by at least CZK 3,000 a month and supplemented its resolution No. 1650 of the 56th meeting of 26 April 2017, adding to point 4 the words of CZK 3 billion for 2017 that the amendment should take place from 1 July 2017, asking the Prime Minister to provide information to the Chamber of Deputies on a variable week starting on 6 June. We are therefore on the agenda of the Prime Minister's information to increase the salaries of social services workers we have requested, the Prime Minister is present and can provide us with information. I ask the Prime Minister to take the floor and share his information with us. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u2	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. First of all, I want to thank you for the inclusion of this point, and I also want to thank the Chamber of Deputies, which expressed its support for the Government's intention to significantly increase employees' salaries in social services. The Government of the Czech Republic has already committed itself in its programming declaration that its priority will be sustainable economic growth, increased employment, as well as the development of quality and available public services. It turned out that in the current circumstances the personnel situation in social services is unsustainable. There was a risk that many people who needed some kind of social service would remain without support because they would not have anyone to do the job. The unions as well as the directors of social facilities have warned us of a large number of problems sometimes associated with the violation of labour law in social services that arose as a result of a lack of personnel. Therefore, the government decided to increase the salaries of employees in social services by 23 percent. This means that the government has approved the relevant government regulation, which increases the tariff salaries in social services by 23 % from 1 July this year. Ladies and gentlemen, in your opinion, the average income of social workers this year represented between two thirds and four fifths of the average wage per category of employment. This average income was thus between CZK 19,000 and CZK 22,000 depending on whether it was a private or public establishment. Thus, an increase of 23 percent contributes to social workers moving around the average income, not at the border of undignified living. I believe that this will contribute to staff stabilization and to increasing the quality of services provided to citizens. For a social worker with an average tariff class of 9.5 %, this increase represents CZK 5,270. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has had several fundamental reasons for this rapid increase in social services salaries. Firstly, social services threatened to break up because people would prefer better paid jobs outside this field. Qualified people work in social services. They do hard work. In a situation where we have record low unemployment - we have the lowest unemployment within the EU - and there are a number of job offers in areas where work is less debilitating, where work is less mentally demanding than in social services, so, of course, these workers in social services are not very motivated to remain in their poorly paid profession. If the State is to provide good social services, it must pay, above all, for high-quality social workers. I would like to stress, honourable Members, that we have also secured the funding of social services in individual regions. Thus, the State is responsible for increasing salaries and does not leave social service providers in the lurch. Every year we contribute to their activities. This year, the amount that exceeds CZK 9 billion, to which we must now add an additional contribution, which exceeds CZK 1 billion, which we have approved together with the payroll regulation. So to be completely detailed as to the government's decision. [[18.10 hours]] The government, together with the government's regulation on wage increases, decided to provide approximately CZK 1.1 billion for expenditure directly financed from the state budget as of 1 July. At the same time, we also increased the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' budget for social services subsidies by 1.28 billion. Crowns. Thus, it practically means that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will divide between the regions of 1.28 billion in the coming weeks. CZK and regions under the relevant legislation will be able to provide these funds to providers of social services in the region. Thus, all who provide social services, who are appropriately registered, will have a chance, and these funds will be intended to increase salaries. This means, whether the providers of a region, a city or a non-profit organization, they will be able to turn to the region and ask for these funds. In total, the government has allocated about 2.4 billion to the increase in public sector employees' salaries since 1 July this year. CZK for financing measures relating to increases in public sector salaries since 1 July this year. These funds were generated by savings in the state debt chapter, were obtained by savings in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and were also obtained under the government budget reserve, so that this increase in salaries is covered. Let me now return to the second reason why we have accepted this significant increase in social services salaries. This has corrected the non-systemic situation where some wage rates were below the lowest level of guaranteed wages. The government's regulations that we have adopted do not raise salaries on a flat-rate basis. We are uniting salary rates so that employees from the worst-rated groups can achieve a reward that corresponds to their education and which also corresponds to the work demands. Thanks to the regulation that increased social workers' salaries, more than 9 percent of employees' salaries in culture, technical staff in education, as well as some health workers or technical and auxiliary workers will also increase. In total, the approved government regulation, which will be effective from 1 July this year, will positively affect about 165,000 people working in the public sector. Instead of nine pay-rate groups, we will now have six of them and this contributes to the comparability of working conditions in the public sector. It is appropriate to say that today's situation was largely due to the stagnation of salaries and, in general, the level of remuneration in the Czech Republic between 2009 and 2014. The only ones who slightly improved in these years on the basis of government decisions were doctors. Logically, representatives of other professions came forward. But this created an inequality between public sector workers, because people with similar education, often college students, suddenly took a very different salary for similarly demanding work. By uniting pay rates, we return the predictable and logical system. In other words, the second reason for increasing the salaries of social services workers was to ensure comparable conditions for the remuneration of employees. Three. In the Czech Republic, we need substantial wage and wage growth at all levels. No government has dealt with this problem as intensively as ours since we joined the European Union. We have agreed that wage and wage growth is a priority for us in order to get as close as possible to the level of wages and wages in Western Europe. Of course, the state has tools to support wage and wage growth. It is above all a minimum wage, which we have already increased by CZK 2.5,000 three times during our mandate. We will also want to increase the minimum wage from 1 January next year. The second instrument by which the State can increase the level of salaries and wages in the national economy is the increase in salaries in the public sector. That is why we approached him in previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of this. It is not that the government has now suddenly forgotten last week that there is a need to increase the salaries of public sector employees. From the very beginning, from the very beginning of this government's mandate, we have acted in such a way as to increase public sector salaries within the scope of the state budget. I would like to remind you that in 2014 we increased our tariff salaries by 3,5 %, by 3 % in 2015 and by 4 % since November last year. In addition, we have, as far as possible, added in those areas where we need to catch up on the long-term deficit and where we are threatened with a shortage of employees due to the tide of our people abroad. For example, we added more significantly to nurses and doctors in hospitals and also to teachers. So the third strong reason for raising salaries in social services is that we want to raise the level of remuneration so that at least the level of wages and salaries in Western Europe can be approached. We want to maintain the state and maintain public services competitive also in relation to our people not going to do social workers, doctors or nurses to Germany or Austria. honourable Members, I have summed up the main reasons which, from my point of view and from the Government's point of view, were essential for the decision to increase the salaries of employees in social services. Once again, I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies for its resolution, which was supported by this step before the Government's regulation was adopted. I am sure that we have intervened in favour of clients in need of social services and that we have also contributed to fairer conditions for the remuneration of employees in the Czech Republic. So let me add a few details to the government's decision. Firstly, as I have already said in detail here, the government has allocated more than 2 billion for the second half of this year. CZK for the government's regulation to be financed from 1 July. It will now be very important for the state budget in 2018, but also for the State budgets 2019 and 2020 to provide enough funding for subsidies for social services. I would like to emphasise this here, because the situation in the area of subsidies for social services has not been and is not simple. Just for illustration, when Jiří Rusnok's government ended in 2013, social services were issued in 2013 6.5 billion. The crown, or the starting base from which our government began, was 6.5 billion. CZK per year for social services. In 2014, it was 7.7 billion. CZK, in 2015 we reached 8.5 billion. CZK, i.e. we increased the subsidies for social services in 2015 to 8.5 billion. CZK, in 2016 for more than 9 billion. and in 2017 to 9.3 billion. Crowns. With the raise this year's salary, we'll get over 10 billion in social services subsidies for the first time. CZK annually this year. This means, for your comparison, the year 2013 6.5 billion. CZK, 2017 over 10 billion. CZK for social services. Social services in the regions are financed from these subsidies, i.e. social services which provide regions, especially residential facilities, but also field social services, which are often provided by municipalities or non-profit organizations, but also by church organisations. So 10 billion. This year we will divide CZK into the provision of social services in regions. This amount is important not only because it will ensure an increase in the salaries of people who work in social services, but also reduce the pressure on social services clients to pay, which I consider to be very important. [[18.20 hours]] So please also the Chamber of Deputies to support not only the government's intention and the government's decision to increase social services, but you also need to support the fact that next year we will have to raise more funds for social services so that we will be able to pay this year's salary to social services employees next year. The second point also concerns the overall impacts, respectively. developments in the remuneration of social services employees in past years. I know it may be a distant past for some, but I would like to use the numbers that come from past years to illustrate what has changed in the last four years. How the government's approach to social services workers has changed and how the government's approach to public sector employees has changed at all. From 2010 to 2014, until November 2014, there was no increase in the tariff salaries of employees in social services. No increase. This means 2010 - a zero increase in employee tariffs in social services. 2011 - zero increase in employee tariffs in social services. 2012 - this will not surprise you, the zero increase in employee tariffs in social services. 2013 - unfortunately, zero, zero increase in pay rates. Only our government on 1 November 2014 - just reminding us that our government started in January 2014 - only our government after a few years, when it was zero, raised employees' wage rates in social services by 3,5 %, another year by 4 %, another year by 3 %, another year by 4 % and now by 23 % from 1 July. So it is clearly our government that has finally started paying attention to workers in social services. We first started in 2014 and then continued every year. I would like Members to take this matter into account in the debate on what the government has now done. And if some of you criticize us for adding too much money, that 23 percent will be hard to finance in the years to come, then I would ask you to also look at what happened between 2010 and 2014 that there was nothing there and that total subsidies for social services were falling. That means the conditions, not that they stagnated at that time, but unfortunately, the conditions were getting worse for employees' salaries in social services. And the fact that we now had to take a whole series of steps, including the last one that the government did last week, which will finally increase tariff salaries by a significant amount of 23 percent, is the consequence that government policy was not good in previous years, even before our government started, because wages have stagnated and subsidies to social services have fallen instead of rising. And the last thing I'm gonna say in conclusion. I think this graph speaks for everything. [[It's showing a graph.]] I think it is clear how social services subsidies have developed, which also pay salaries, before the accession of our government - this is 2013 - and how the subsidies have started to increase after the start of our government, which has made this area one of its budget priorities. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and, above all, I hope that the strong step that our government has taken in favour of the remuneration of workers in social services will improve the situation in the functioning of social services, enabling people working there today to remain in more dignified conditions, and also allowing us to better occupy the places that are vacant, in the competition, in the strong competition that is in the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u3	I thank Mr Bohuslav Sobotk, Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, and I am opening a general debate. First up is Mr. Miroslav Opálka. I ask him to take the position of rapporteur when he is the first to appear, according to the Rules of Procedure. I'm sure you agree with that, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u4	Well, I don't agree, but what I have left.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u5	But I'll take that as a yes. Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u6	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues, at 17-18, immediately after a consultation between the House's leadership and the President of the MPs, the Prime Minister wrote and, at 1807 after voting, published this announcement on his twitter: YES and the Communists voted to suspend the discussion of the Labour Code, which improves the status of employees. The CSSD was against it. The election campaign started, and, as you can see, it's not about the laws anymore, because no one knows if the form of the Labour Code that should be passed will or will not be beneficial to the workers. That's our concern. Because the range of amendments that are here is so huge that no one can deal with it. You know, I've always tried to get along with the election campaign on serious material, but I think this is going a little beyond the border. This is like: ČSSD has passed 1,200 crowns to every pensioner. We all made it. Don't be mad at me, but that's filthy. And now to the point. Let me give you a short quote: "As the Social Services Providers Association, representatives of facilities and individual regions state, there is a risk of restrictions on the care of elderly people, disabled people and others needed in the Czech Republic, as there are several thousand workers missing to take care of them. Social services due to low earnings are difficult to compete with other employers, employees are unable to obtain or maintain." Citation in the article: "Unless there are enough staff, the quality of care will be reduced and new clients will not be accepted. We pointed out two years ago that the situation is getting worse and more overloading workers." And there is an amendment: "For 30 helpless clients, one employee is needed, which thus gets into an unsolvable situation," said Dagmar Žitníková, head of the social services department. I add that the Department of Health and Social Welfare of the Czech Republic is more accurate. "According to the statistical office, the average wage in the Czech Republic was CZK 27,589 last year," I quote further. "According to the information system on average earnings of caregivers and caregivers in homes or households of seniors, averaged CZK 19,058 gross. Half of them didn't earn 18 821 crowns. There are up to 250 workers in the capital city of Prague who would take direct care of the elderly and the disabled. There are about three dozen employees missing in the Hradec Králové Region, care is only possible due to overtime. In the South Bohemia Region in facilities it reaches up to 50 per cent per year. There is also a shortage of staff and great fluctuations in the Zlín Region, but none of the homes have been shut down because of it. There are dozens of job vacancies in social services in Vysočina due to small earnings. The county had to temporarily limit the admission of new clients to one of its facilities. There are 200 employees missing in the Ústí Region. Nearly 17 million have been released to raise salaries. In the Plzeň Region, the facility seeks to attract staff by providing housing, extra leave and other benefits. In the Moravian-Silesian region, the number of workers leaving social services has increased significantly in the last two years. There may be around 100 or 200 employees missing. Last year's salary increase in its facilities was equal to 50 million, including for other providers." [[18.30 hours]] I quote from 5 monthly Czech Social Security Administration, which is the monthly National Insurance. I mean, no election campaign, but a source practically from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs organization. Why am I saying this after the Prime Minister's fiery performance? Because knowledge of the disaster is not new and the government will be over for four years. Praise be to God that these employees, but also the employees of other state organizations, are lucky to be before the elections, because if it was actually about dealing with the situation so that there would not be a constant decline, and the increase in salary is not yet a guarantee that those who left would be returning to us, we would have to take that step sooner. I understand the curve that shows an increase in the state budget that goes into funding for social services grants. But I'm not sure it's always the three "E"s, i.e. efficiency, efficiency and efficiency. Here we should have a little more order in these priorities from the center across the county to the trio communities. I am glad that under pressure from the situation, under pressure from the unions, but also under pressure from Members and the Social Committee on this matter may make the last drop. Unfortunately, not in time, but quite late. But actually for the election campaign and for those closest to the media, it was at the right time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u7	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek for his speech. But I will ask my colleague Chalánková to be patient because I have three factual points here, Mr Chalupa, Mr Roman Sklenák, Prime Minister. And I've got a proper application from the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, which, of course, doesn't apply with priority rights, so I'm taking note of that, and I'm putting it in order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u8	Thank you for the floor. Just for a very short time. Today we discussed laws that also concern the security of the Czech Republic. Surely it is absolutely okay that we are also dealing with increasing salaries in social services. Here I would like to point out, as the previous speaker said here in the fire speech of the Prime Minister, that the ministers and the ANO movement, as well as the Minister of Finance, who is no longer, Mr Babiš, have contributed significantly to this. I just want to point out that we should also look at increasing IT and cybersecurity salaries in the same way. Because it may be even more important than in the social services, because without that, this country will not be sufficiently protected against cyber threats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u9	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr. Sklenák's point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u10	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I must return to the opening of Mr Opálka's speech and oppose the designation of Mr. Prime Minister's tweet as filthy. This tweet describes exactly the situation as it was today during the discussion of the Labour Code. The reality is that part of the House is taking every step to prevent the negotiation and adoption of the Labour Code, and Members of the KSČM simply joined this group today. That's it. And the situation for those who were watching it was that at 4:30 a.m., except for social democracy and some other individuals, they all so-called shut down, so that there was not enough concession to make any proposal possible. That is why there was a break, and when we met afterwards, MEPs of YES and KSČM voted in favour of the proposal to break the Labour Code until the next meeting, just as the Prime Minister wrote. And the interruption of the hearing until the next meeting actually means that the labor code will no longer be discussed. So that's how it is, and the tweet is exactly what got the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now the Prime Minister's point of fact, then Mr Kováčik, then colleagues Marek Benda. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u12	Yes, thank you. I'm just gonna go back to that tweet in one sentence. I'm glad you're watching my Twitter here. However, I gave the tweet because I'm worried that the labor code won't be able to discuss it. The Labour Code has been largely agreed by the social partners, and that time is actually running very ruthlessly at this point. And I'm going back to my wages. I am returning to pay, and I want to make it clear, given what has been said here in the factual notes. First of all, it was a government decision, and I speak for the government here as Prime Minister. And it's clear that the government is coalition. The government has decided as a whole. That's the first point. Second point. This is not a pre-election decision, because we agreed on this step last year, at the end of last year we agreed to change the tariff table as of 1 July. We agreed with the trade unions representing workers in culture, social services workers and also the school unions that we would simply make this structural change, and since we were no longer able to find funds in the state budget for the first half of the year, we agreed to do so from 1 July this year. But that ruling at government level, at coalition level, fell at the end of last year, and on this basis, Minister Marksová began preparing appropriate government regulations, which the government now approved with effect from 1 July. And if there's been talk of other workers, I just want to remind you that, as of 1 July, we're also returning members of the security forces, which means police officers, firefighters, customs officers, members of the Prison Service, 10 percent of their tariff pay. That's the government's order we passed before, and we're giving them back 10 percent that they lost in 2012, and we're giving it back to them from July 1. That's another significant salary decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u13	Prime Minister, you've run out of time to make a point of fact. Now the factual comment of Mr Kováčik's KSČM club chairman. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u14	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, colleagues, gentlemen and Madam Secretary. [[Highly:]] Typical social democracy! They're not here, and they blame their absence and failure on everyone else. [[Let's hear it for KSČM.]] They messed up, and then on the tweet, they say they're number one. Friends, and now I'm talking to my social democracy friends. [[Loud laugh.]] If you say something, say the whole thing! Because the interruption was originally proposed by September and it would have passed because of your absence. Because the YES movement was prepared to vote in favour. I feel like I do. [[Laughter from the right side.]] And KSČM will no longer be the one who will always, with forgiveness, save your ass if you don't have people here! I think that the tripartite did not agree on this law, that it is not a well-prepared thing, and we have saved at least the theoretical possibility of negotiating the labour code. Not that we dumped him. Prime Minister, I would mark your tweet even harder than my colleague Opálka. I thank him for at least marking him that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u15	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Marek Benda. He will prepare for the factual remark of his colleague Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u16	You've come back beautifully to the Labor Code. So I would like to say that yes, our intention was to prevent the negotiation of the Labour Code. You know well that I say in the long run that there's nothing to be discussed for the past six months that this House is only rampant as in senseless populist screaming, and I think this morning was a clear demonstration. And we certainly should not discuss standards as a code of work that will come in some form, then it is found that suddenly social democracy, as it has now been granted here, is agreed on a committee with the Communists on some completely different text that will be presented to us here. Half the government coalition is desperate to walk and say - we can't approve this, it's gonna hurt everyone. [[18.40 hours]] It's just not supposed to work this way, and I think in the next 14 days of the meeting, I'm gonna tell you that ten more times when you see the individual proposals coming from the ministries -- hurry, hurry, add one more page over there, three pages over there, ten pages of amendments. Let us really be very restrained about what is to be done in this conclusion. And there's no way you're supposed to be doing a labor code between unions, social democracy, and the Communist Party.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u17	Thank you, Mr Marek Benda, for keeping time on the point of fact. Before the factual remark by Miroslav Opálka, I will read the apology of Mrs Věra Kovářová, who apologizes until the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to tell Mr. Sklenák by your means that by filthy means I meant practices and not Twitter, on which more information has already been published that there is an increase in wages in social services thanks to the Prime Minister. I think this is where Mr. Babiš, Mr. Sobotka, is going to beat the government. But that's their problem. But now that you're in such a fight, you realize that if we hadn't jumped in, because we're close to each other on the agenda, on the committees, and not just on the social committee, your proposals wouldn't be going through at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u19	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek for his time. Mr Ivan Adamec's point of view. He will prepare for the factual remark Marta Semelová, Roman Sklenák and Pavel Kováčik. Mr Adamec, a point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u20	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will return to the draft labour code. The Prime Minister here said that he was presented on the basis of an agreement between the social partners. I heard something else from the rapporteur here - that there were no agreements. And now I don't know who to trust. So I admit I'm really staring at what's going on here today. And by the way, when the agreement was, I don't understand why there are more than sixty amendments. Because it's not like the designs are made right here between us. These were created on the basis of the lobbyist pressures of the very social partners. So let's pour some pure wine as it is, and let's not say half-truths here, if not lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u21	I thank Mr Adamc for his time. Now, Marta Semelová's point of view. Mr. Roman Sklenák will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u22	Thank you. I can only confirm the words of my colleagues here. Opals about how many times the opposition saves by its votes not only here in the House, but also on committees. It was on the school committee for the last time. But what I wanted to say about the Prime Minister. Here was a demonstration of desperation speaking out of him. You see how your preferences are falling, how you're on the very political day, and now you're going to start naming what you're doing here, and that's not really what you're doing. Besides, if you started bringing these things up this year, I'm asking you what you were doing here when you were at the oar for the fourth year, and now it's coming up with social laws, raising money. You talk like you're adding one category after another. Social housing is out of sight because you've been arguing about it in the government for quite some time. You put back-up maintenance on the program so it doesn't come up at all. What you're saying here is demagogy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u23	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. Now, Mr Roman Sklenák, then Mr Kováčik, then the de facto remark made by Minister Marksová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u24	Yes. You don't scream the truth with those hysterical speeches. Members of social democracy are here and members of social democracy have been here. [[Laughs from Members of the KSČM.]] And over there, you've got a jinx from the vote, and you can see that the Social Democrats voted. However, in order for the House to be able to vote on something, there must be 67 Members, and our parliamentary club has only 50. It's just that. And if you don't vote for the interruption, we're discussing the labor code at the moment. Those are the facts. And you can scream all you want, but you can't change the truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u25	Well, thank you. Now Mr Pavel Kováčik also made a point of fact. And I have enough factual notes, so we can proceed. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u26	Speaking of which, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are with the new media. On Twitter, my colleague Sedi just showed up -- typical communists, the worse, the better -- something like that. I'll remind you of another scene from this wound. Now it's full of billboard republics, where Secretary Marksová is and claims, along with social democracy, "we're gonna make payments for the first three days of sick leave." And I ask, where were you when this proposal was here? He was from our workshop, you promised to support him, and when he was voted on, where were the promises? So who's the worse for it, the better? They're definitely not communists. I think that the fact that social democracy always comes to left-wing values on paper before the elections is guided by a kind of electoral motive. It happened now. It becomes the harder it gets, the lower the preferences of social democracy. I'm curious to see what you'll get again in the next move of preferences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u27	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik. Now, the de facto remark made by Secretary Michaela Marksová. Madam Secretary, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u28	Mr Vice-President, Members, on the Labour Code, I would like to say that the government's form was the result of a two-year argument. It's nothing that's suddenly before the election. And there are a lot of laws that have been here and that have had even more amendments. I still do not see any reason why such a law should not normally be allowed to vote on such proposals. That's one. [[During this post, Member Stanjura requested from the Prime Minister the graph by which the Prime Minister argued in his previous speech.]] Secondly, as to whether or not there is a pre-election issue in raising salaries in the public sphere. This government started at a time when, before and because of the economic crisis, even because of the one who ruled, there were no valorisations in many areas either, or, as the Prime Minister has already said, some groups have even decreased. Each year, this government has increased in various areas of the public sector. Each of these increases within the state budget was a struggle to make this increase happen. We've done this every year of this government, and it's not an election thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u29	Thank you, Mrs Marksová, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, President Stanjura's factual remark, will be prepared for a factual remark in that order - Mr Laudát, Member Chalánková, Pastuchová, Hnyková, Kořenek, Opálka and Kováčik. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u30	Firstly, I want to say that only the Communist opposition supports the government in its left-wing proposals, and not us, to be completely clear. Not opposition, but communist opposition. Second of all, it's kind of funny, and it's kind of fun for me to see who's more on the left. Socialists or communists. I'm kind of enjoying that. Come on, comrades! But I want to get back to the point we're discussing. I wanted to sign up properly, but I couldn't even make it to 7:00. Firstly, I want to thank the Prime Minister for responding to the House's resolution and for adopting it. Secondly, I want to say that we have almost five million employees and only ten percent, or maybe up to ten percent working for the state. And this government takes care of the ten percent, and it forgets the ninety. A much better recipe is to reduce taxes to everyone regardless of whether they work for the state or in the private sector. And the chart. [[He's pointing.]] I don't want to argue with those numbers in any way, that's from the state budget. But the Prime Minister - and I think he must know - forgot that during the period 2009-2013, so-called large individual projects were running on MPSV, which brought additional resources into the field of social services, and they ended. It wasn't a government decision, it was a Brussels decision, another programming period. So if we don't read it, this is a table that looks very good for this government and very unflattering for the government last time. But if we add the individual projects there, the statistics aren't nearly as dramatic. [[18.50 hours]] Then just one more question. We will certainly not be the ones who will say, Prime Minister, that by increasing the salaries of social services workers, you have burdened the budget so that it cannot be handled in the coming years. Definitely not. You won't hear it from our mouths. We meant it. You yourself admitted that the dramatic situation occurred by changing the situation on the labour market. And it was completely different in 2010, it was much more unemployed, lower average wage, so it was easier to get people into social services. Work was just as hard, I don't doubt it. That's the main reason for the problem, but it's a good thing it's been solved. And if the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, for which everyone here voted, regardless of the club, has contributed, it is only good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Laudát's point of fact is now being prepared for Mrs Chalánková's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, just a little bit of history. I made it clear to President Sklenák when the disgraceful pamphlet, called the amendment to the Labor Code, arrived that I would build it, even if I had to do it myself. In this period, you have so brutally damaged employers, entrepreneurs. And it's not enough for such people, Minister Marksová and others. They're gonna put more and more nonsense in their next period. Really, really, really read the work code that's in there. For the next one. I can't say, and I don't know why you blame the Sobotkův government and especially social democracy for not implementing socialist policies. I would ask the members of the KSČM to listen to a report by Jiří Dolejš, a member of the Committee on Budget, about the state of the register this morning at the Committee on Budgets, Minister Pilný said. Selected, handed out, preparing a pre-election budget, not enough yet, not 50 billion, already there 89 or 84, now I don't know how many billions of demands there said, and it's not over yet. Investment. He won't be able to invest. That's what you've shut down. You're eating up, you've eaten up this republic in economic growth. How has the service of the state improved towards the citizens? What are the 32 700 civil servants doing? What are they doing? What's the progress? Except maybe a few policemen and military personnel. Where is it? Where's the better service? It's not enough for four deputy ministers, there must be eight! In fact, if the responsible countries were to manage... Now, when we just need the freeway, there's no more money. So it was typically a socialist government, left-wing like thunder! And it's not enough yet. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And you're gonna fight here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u33	Now, Mrs Chalánková's factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would also like to draw attention to the way this government has worked for four years. When we hear the secretary here says she wanted to fight for it, that's it. I'd like her to struggle for a systemic change in funding. I am glad that this motion for a resolution has succeeded in drawing up Mrs Hnyková's proposal for a Social Services Financing Point in this resolution, because we are asking the Government for a systemic change in funding. I will not repeat myself again, because I have repeatedly said here what is involved in all the problems in financing social services, when scissors began to spread between the salaries of workers in direct care and workers in health care facilities of social services. I also wanted to point out that you're saying yes here, we're increasing the so-called. subsidy. However, the problem lies directly with the Social Services Act, which the government also passed in 2006. And there are a lot of mistakes in that law that are now showing up. The subsidy is non-predictive, please. And I wish those workers a raise. However, it's nine to ten billion, but it's still non-pretentious. And these subsidies have been transferred from state level to county, and I would say in a way that raises doubts in me. Because if the region is also a founder, a provider of social services and at the same time decides to grant a subsidy, there are, of course, unequal conditions for public support compared to other providers. I was repeatedly assured by the Minister's letter that everything had been consulted by the Office for the Protection of Competition. I believe that the transfer of this money to social democratic captains should have been notified by the European Commission. I have given enough space to do so with my proposal for an amendment to extend or delay this transfer by two years so that you can work systematically. Prime Minister, it is not worth talking about raising the minimum wage here at all because there is a need to increase production with high added value.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u35	Madame, your time for a point of fact has come to an end.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u36	Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, it's not the government, it's... Last word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u37	Madam, respect the Rules of Procedure. I ask everyone to realise that the Rules of Procedure are the same for all, and if anyone applies to a factual remark, they should respect that. Please note that this item is not a law and we will discuss it within 21 hours under the Rules of Procedure. We can continue with Mrs Pastuchová's speech. Also a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u38	Thank you. I replied to the Prime Minister's Twitter and I will answer your colleague Sklenák. Unlike you, I may have looked at the vote immediately, and of the only 50 Members you have, only 25 voted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u39	Thank you. Now Mrs Hnyková, also with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u40	Thank you for the floor. I am very glad that we will continue until the 21st hour, because I will draw up a list of all the Social Democrats who voted or abstained on the resolution that we have adopted here, Mr President, through Mr President. Well, that's the first thing I wanted to say to you. Second thing. You're saying that 23 percent. I was very glad to hear that your government approved it. I even commended officials from the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for finding the funds on the Social Policy Committee. But do you know what practice is? People who work in social services and are placed in the fourth and fifth pay tables are rewarded in the pay zone because they had to move to the twelfth grade in order not to get to the minimum wage. And you know what employers want to do now? Yes, they'll move them to the sixth medical chart, but they'll give them salaries based on the years they work off, so those people won't get a raise again. If this happens, Prime Minister, I'm telling you, you're going to have hell in the whole republic!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u41	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková, for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Miroslav Opálka's factual comment. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor on a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I wanted to respond to the Minister's remark that we blocked the negotiation of the Labour Code. I think she heard clearly here, and the signals here were in front of the ODS, that she's just not gonna let the law be negotiated. It just wouldn't have happened at the second reading. Our choice was whether to let go of any more necessary laws or to sit here. But, hey, social democracy took advantage of that. In fact, she sees in this election struggle that she can blame and tarnish the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, its MPs. So what's going on? How many times did the chairman sit on that committee for you? Not one member was on your side, and we were saving it. And we're not ashamed of it, because it's our electoral program, just like yours, social policy, but that doesn't mean it's distribution by failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u43	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Kováčik's point of fact, then Foldyna, then Minister Marksová, then colleague Stanjura and colleague Chalánková. I have this order right here. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u44	Thank you. You want to tell me, but I'd rather not tell, but I'll ask the House to get back to the subject we have on the board. Because if we continue this election duel, where there is no shortage of different underhanded and subknee kicks, we will not bring any of what our citizens would expect. I am just confirming that it is a good thing that tomorrow I will bring a list of signatures for the request of the House to express my distrust to the Government of the Czech Republic, and I will be persistent in this regard. However, we are now on the agenda of the Prime Minister's Information on increasing salaries in social services, and I remind you that social services workers are the most needed for Czech society, for our citizens and for those of the least paid. Let's do this now, and first things first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u45	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Now, Mr. Foldyna, then Minister Marksová. Everyone with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u46	Thank you for the floor. I was gonna put the ball on the ground. I think Mr. Kováčik said it exactly. Those laws and this law that's ahead of us are very important, so let's end it. I think a whole series of laws have been discussed very well here. The government is successful thanks to members of social democracy, thanks to members of YES. And, of course, I must say that often thanks to the Communist Party Members, because you have supported a whole range of good things. Let's give the ball back... Well, I didn't name the other deputies, but I didn't have any reason to name them, because in a number of those laws, they tried to build these things. The shift in this country, the fact that minimum wages have been raised and average wages have been raised with them, is mainly due to these clubs that I have listed here. Let's discuss what Mr Kováčik said, and I will stand up for it too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u47	Thank you. Now, Minister Michaela Marksová, Mr Stanjura will prepare to make a point of fact. Madam Secretary, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u48	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to say that when the resolution was adopted by the Chamber of Deputies on increasing remuneration in social services, there was a long time ago material in the process, which was then approved by the government, where it chose one of the three options. But the variations at the time of the vote were already prepared, just like the financial resources were prepared. And one more thing I repeat. This government has been increasing constantly. All the time. And we often hear only criticism from the right that we raise too much, so I'd quite like to make it clear what we want. In my opinion, it is clear that it is necessary to raise, and you are all talking about it here. And as far as the remark goes, if employers give it to these people in some other way in a way that really doesn't increase -- well, this government has done everything it can as a government. But the rest of it, it's already on the other, including employers, whoever the employer is. The government really doesn't run everything around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u49	Thank you, Minister Marksová. Now, Mr Stanjura's point of fact, then Mrs Chalánková, Mr Laudát, Prime Minister Sobotka, Mr Kudela. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u50	First, a procedural motion to interrupt our meeting by 9:00 tomorrow, because the debate will be very long. If we get to the point that the Secretary of State has just shown what the government has done, we want the same space to say what the government has failed to do. Name clubs that were involved in the fact that it didn't work. And if I wanted to respond to Mr. Foldyna... [[He's looking around. Officer Foldyna reports he's sitting in a different place.]] There, well done, thank you. ... as he says, "I will stand up for Mr. Kováčik's words." I'm asking - which one? When he says the word dirty was very mild to use a stronger word? Or what words of Mr. Kováčik are you going to take? Because this debate about the Labour Code is useless. This is my contribution to the labor code that I couldn't present today, so I'll do it next time. [[shows the folder]] And you've gotten used to the fact that when we criticize the government, we may be making concrete amendments that it's obstruction. That simple word of obstruction, it's all obstruction. If you can't make a deal with the government, it's not obstruction. And without wanting to whistle who is right in your disputes, let me just remind Mr. Foldyna that many things have failed in the government, too, the KDU-ČSL Club is responsible, even though he is now in the election campaign that he wasn't actually in that government. But he was, we remember very well. So it wasn't just CSSD clubs and club YES, but it was also a KDU-ČSL club that often voted, for example, to abolish the illustration duty for members of the government. We were promised an immediate amendment by a parliamentary proposal. When I laughed at my colleague at the time that he wouldn't make it and possibly not make it, I was right - he didn't even make it! So I suggest we stop discussing this point. I have stepped out, I would say, for civil democrats constructively. I thanked the Prime Minister for the approval. I could ask how much it's going to be because he said 165,000 employees, 2.3 billion. and in social services, 50,000.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-020-351.u51	Mr President, your time for a point of fact has ended. Well, thank you. I have before me an apology from Mr. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek from 19 o'clock for work reasons. And now, without debate, we will discuss the proposal to interrupt the meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, which was presented by the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura. That would interrupt this point. We'll decide in the vote number 300. I'll check you out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the procedural motion to interrupt the meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning in the vote number 300, which I have just launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 300. Of the present 83 for 59, against 21, the motion was accepted and I interrupt the meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. I will still fulfil my obligation under the Rules of Procedure Act, namely that we start tomorrow by means of written interpelations under the law, on Minister Valachová and on Ms. Minister Šlechtová. At 11 o'clock, there is a fixed programme where it can also change, if necessary, by starting with the Minister of Education at 11 o'clock, point 244 if there is no change. Have a good night.
