ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u1	171. Proposal for the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Poland in the framework of the Enhanced forward presence of NATO /German press 1121/ - first reading This item was interrupted on 11 July 2017 following the speech of the Minister of Defence. If the Minister of Defence does not wish to add anything in the course of his opening speech, I will give the rapporteur, who is Mr Klučka, because this press has been discussed by the Defence Committee and the resolution has been delivered as press number 1121. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Let me introduce you to resolution 224 of the Defence Committee of the 41st meeting of 15 June 2017 on the proposal for the action of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Poland in support of the enhanced Advanced presence of NATO, House press 1121. The Defence Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to adopt the following resolution: 1. Speaks in agreement with the action of the Ministry of Defence forces and funds in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland in the framework of enhanced The presence of NATO in the period from 1 January 2018 to 31 January 2019 in total up to 290 persons. 2. He asks the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic about the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Poland in the framework of the enhanced Advanced presence of NATO in 2018, by 30 June 2019 at the latest, and the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland in the framework of the Advanced Enhanced presence of NATO in 2019 at the latest by 30 June 2020. He instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies and asks the Chair of the Committee to present the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u3	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening the debate and first to give the floor to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who is a co-president of this material. After him, Mr. Mr. Černý.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u4	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I will comment on this proposal, which I co-submit with the Minister of Defence. So we are talking about the enhanced forward-looking presence of the Alliance. Under that name lies the strengthening of the defence of the eastern wing of NATO. It is a relatively key policy of the Alliance since 2014. In fact, we were already involved in this policy at the beginning of this year, when we had three months of our troops within the Visegrad Group located in Lithuania, it was around January to March 2017, so we were already actively performing in this enhanced forward-looking presence. And this is about the House approving further action, this time in Lithuania and Latvia, and together with Canada and Germany. I think that from the perspective of the Czech Republic it is a significant contribution which, quite often, we say that we are ready to engage in the Alliance precisely in strengthening the defence of the Eastern bloc, so it is such a demonstration that we, as the Czech Republic, are able to contribute to one of the essential activities of the Alliance at present. I believe that the House should definitely support our participation, because perhaps there is no need to talk about the importance of the Alliance here, and it is very clear that we must demonstrate our ability to work in the Alliance by concrete actions. This is one of them, and I'm in favour of the House supporting it and proving to be a reliable ally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr Černý will also appear and Mr Okamura will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u6	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments on the subject that we are discussing right now. Colleagues have now made fun of me for introducing some new PPP terminology - enhanced forward presence, such a special terminus technique, no classic exercise, no classic mission, on which we usually sent soldiers to Afghanistan and elsewhere around the world. In short, PPP. I've lived in conviction until recently, and I think most of you too, that what we're doing, we should do with regard to safety. We should strive to ensure that every step we take is a step in favour of the people of the Czech Republic, to strengthen our position within any grouping, any whole, and, above all, to guarantee in the future that we will be better off in any area, and when we talk about security, that is, that we will be better off in the area of security. I was just looking at documents not very old recently, and I would just like to remind myself that, quite historically, very recently, in 2010, a meeting was held in Prague by the presidents of the United States of America and Russia, and that at that time we were all expecting - and it also looked like that after the meeting - that we were entering a period when, if we were to be afraid of something, it would certainly not be anything that came from nearby, which would immediately have a military character, and we also naturally made it subject to our activities. No one at that time - or rather, some already expected that there might be any problems at that time, many knew that there would be trouble with migration, they knew that there might be further threats, but the direct military threat seemed very unlikely at that time, and of course we were pleased to do so. In short, the world seemed safer. About that time, the President of the United States, Barack Obama, got the Nobel Peace Prize, and since then, it's like something's gone wrong. The situation began to deteriorate quite dramatically, and virtually every year of his reign, there was a new problem, a new focus of tension, a situation that required new measures. What went wrong during Barack Obama's presidency certainly did not lead anyone to say that the world is safer. Just after seven years, we got into a situation where the world isn't really safer. The threats that we should potentially be prepared for continue to increase. Those that we were able to name a few years ago have quite specific contours, swells, reach huge dimensions. The recent G20 negotiations in Hamburg made it clear that even at this level too high expectations cannot be expected. Very, very tiptoeing around when some of the powers just don't want to respect what the others want. We have been convincing each other about the situation in the European Union for quite a long time. Relentless. The interests of individual members of the European Union differ so much that many do not see the European Union's perspective in very pink colours, and there are some among us who predict quite catastrophic developments. The North Atlantic Alliance is nothing special. It's an organization that's made up of the ones I just named. Of course, it is at the heart of the United States and European members - I apologise to Canada, Turkey for not naming them at the moment, but it is for security reasons that Turkey has already done so. After all, the European Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance do not provide a guarantee of any progressive development. After brexit, notice that there has been almost no talk for a year about security issues related to this. And I guarantee you that they are related, because the United Kingdom has one of the strongest European armies and its withdrawal from the Union, even if it remains a member of the North Atlantic Alliance, a certain convention will in any case be expressed in the future. [[9.30 hours]] I have chewed on Turkey and there is no need to stress how the neurolgy point of Turkey is. The North Atlantic Alliance has been facing huge problems over the last few years. The south wing wants something completely different from the east wing of the Alliance. The old members or Western countries of the Alliance, the founding countries, want something completely different than the V4. Poland within the V4 wants something completely different than the others. In short, and good. The summit from the summit usually ends by declaring - and note that all documents from the North Atlantic Alliance summits, say, have started and ended in the last five or six years with assurance of mutual unity, the importance of transatlantic cooperation and partnership, and that this is an incorruptible principle through which the train simply does not go. At the last security conferences, which were held here in the House about a month ago, some have even mentioned that the Alliance, as we know it now, is not the right nut. We're kind of looking at her with respect. The KSČM's position on the Alliance is widely known. I would just like to point out that the soldiers, the real Alliance, are merely executors of political will. The Supreme Authority, which decides in the North Atlantic Alliance, is not the Congregation of Chiefs of Staff or any other purely military organization, institution. But they are presidents and premieres of the Member States of the European Union plus the United States, Canada, and so on. When I say plus the United States - I guess I should have turned that order of course, because it's quite obvious that when the United States is not in the North Atlantic Alliance, the North Atlantic Alliance is losing its sense. Military and political. It just wouldn't do any good. And what Donald Trump said at a time when he was still a candidate for the President of the United States has aroused so much horror in the ranks of the highest political and military circles in Europe and around the world that it would be a real revolution if the United States had come to the conclusion that they just don't need the Alliance anymore. What happened after the elections in the United States clearly indicates that the processes that Mr Trump apparently intended to carry out are being postponed for at least a while. First, he will have to settle a domestic domestic political struggle and a trance so that he can perhaps gradually begin to implement some of his pre-election vows. He's got some time left, but time is running really fast. When I said the world wasn't safer, I didn't mean Europe. You know we're sending our own troops east of here. We send them to Africa according to a doctrine that is respected by the Czech army. So we prepare to send virtually anywhere except perhaps the North and South Pole. And maybe we're holding back a little bit in naval operations. Yesterday, a major military exercise was launched in the Black Sea, under the leadership of the United States of America, of course. I repeat - exercise under the leadership of the United States of America in the Black Sea, not the Gulf of Mexico, not the Atlantic. It's just things we should keep in mind. What we're probably going to approve here today is a thing that, as I've already indicated, and that comes from that name, is a little weird. You know, the name itself simply evokes something - enhanced forward-looking presence. But we commit ourselves to two and a half years in advance. So at least two and a half years, we're counting on the situation to be constant and we'll be there. The minister mentioned a rotational principle yesterday. This means that various forces of the Member States' armies of the North Atlantic Alliance will take turns there. And it is probably expected that sooner or later there will be another demand, another - I simply call it demand requirements, when a member country, perhaps one of those Baltic countries, again asks for an increase. And we're gonna keep working out, and we're gonna keep sending our troops east. The only problem is that it's getting closer all the time. As long as we were sending troops to Mali or Afghanistan, we could have said well, it's a bit of a world, it's a long way away. But now we're moving not in thousands of kilometers, but we're definitely barely in hundreds. And given what the fighting capabilities of today's armies are, it's a distance almost at the point of contact. It's an extremely dangerous matter. When you look at the reference report that the government has forwarded to us, it refers to some sort of change in the security environment. And let me just give you a little quote. Of course, the biggest threat we are making is the Russian Federation. But we are doing this primarily because the Russian Federation is implementing its power ambitions. It realizes its power ambitions, uses a number of hybrid campaign tools, including targeted disinformation activities and cyber attacks. We are not ashamed to admit that the Russian Federation is capable of Putin elections in the United States, France, probably now Germany, and we are afraid that it will affect our autumn elections. So if the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia succeeded in the autumn elections, you'd better know who did it. These are simply things that have completely legitimately taken over our space. We're all talking about it, we're taking it for granted today, and we're not ashamed at all, we're not offended at all that someone's making complete fools of us, and they admit that 300 million Američan are unlawful idiots who are being manipulated by several hackers from Russia. We've come to some weird game that we're going to work out, we're all going to work out because Donald Trump said he wanted us to pay two percent. And we know why he said that. In his strategy, Donald Trump was clearly declaring what he was doing. And it was even said at that security conference a while ago. Yes, the Američan are asking us to greatly strengthen our defense spending, to strengthen our military capacity, and to free their hands. To free their hands so that they can engage elsewhere in the world in areas that they consider truly crucial and dominant. That's what this is all about. If you look at what the two percent mean in more detail. He implied it by Donald Trump on his first trip to Europe. Saudi Arab not only bought for 100 billion, so they will strengthen their armed - this is not an Alliance country - but they will certainly strengthen their security forces. They'll be strengthened by American weapons. So they'll pay those Američan twice. Moreover, it will clearly strengthen their dependence. Of course, when someone delivers weapons systems at this value, in other words, they guarantee for twenty-thirty years in advance - because the lifetime of those weapons systems is in decades - that you will be kind and obedient. Because all you have to do is cooperate. Otherwise, you practically threw the money out the window. This procedure declares what is to be done in Europe. Only four member countries of the alliance fulfilled the two percent. Now we're almost all applying for it. Some, for example, the Federal Minister of Defence. [[9.40 hours]] This procedure declares what is to be done in Europe. Only four member countries of the alliance fulfilled the two percent. Now we're almost all applying for it. So some, for example, the Federal Minister of Defence, apparently a man who has his head on his neck and realized what it means to raise by a few hundred billion - in crowns - by a few hundred billion military budget of the Federal Republic, what it would mean, so he was able to speak up, but the others, mostly very, very humbly obey and promise, now two tenths of a percent, then zero, then 1.4 - and gradually work on those 2. Again, luckily, we don't have the sea, otherwise we'd certainly be able to spend the 2% next year, because we'd probably buy a submarine or a rocket frigate, because otherwise we can't spend the money. For us, it would mean more than 100 billion to issue in defense. 22,000 men in arms! For two brigades and several special units. Do we need over 100 billion for that? Or are we just filling some fiction that doesn't have a completely real basis? Experts calculated that if we wanted to spend over 100 billion, the Army of the Czech Republic would have to count about 40,000 men. The capacity of the Czech market is not such today. We just don't have that kind of human resources. For example, the Czech army's ambition to increase its numbers by 5,000 people or to get with active backups to 5,000 is perfectly visible. Recruiting targets, thanks to the strong financial support that we have provided over the past period, so the military's recruitment goals are being fulfilled as well, but we all know very well that they have limits and that maybe after a thousand active reserve workers and maybe 2,000 professional soldiers, we will be in a situation where there will simply be no such people on the Czech market. I'm not talking about reducing demands all the time. We're going down with criteria to choose from, because the criteria that the military originally had are no longer consistent with the many people we want to recruit. In short, we're in a situation where the budget, if we want to fill it, we can, we can always buy something, naturally, that we can buy something. Fortunately, military technology is so insanely expensive that it's not a problem to spend the money. But if any other minister is responsible, he will consider very, very much what this technique will do. Because we've been here before with the fact that we've been talking - or we've been convinced that we need over 200 Pandurs, we just can't do it without it. And then all of a sudden, it turns out we might not need 100. I don't have to remind you of another expensive type, like L-159. That was a very expensive baggirl. And until recently, we didn't know where to go. We've been making fun of this before that every member of the Defense Committee gets one of those fighters and garages at home in their backyard. They are simply steps that are often very, very dangerous. Now we're watching with tension the selection of helicopters, for example, and we're getting quite interesting knowledge. It'll certainly be expensive, so the main purpose will probably be fulfilled, but as far as it works, we'll see. So far, I'm pretty scared to hear about parameters that fit more in the desert than in Central Europe. But maybe it'll work out. However, let me mention other aspects of the explanatory memorandum submitted by the government. She writes here that, for example, "an increased military presence near the borders of the Baltic States" - that is, Russia's increased military presence - "forces us to send our soldiers there." I note that this is an increased military presence of Russian soldiers on Russian territory. It's as pointless as the rugged military exercises of the Russian army on Russian territory. Yes, our intelligence has informed us of Russian soldiers' ability to move, for example, at great distances in large numbers, at great speed, with great secrecy. And, of course, our generals envied them. General Pavel informed já about how the Alliance, with respect, looks up to the capabilities of, for example, the Russian army's missile forces. But it should be pointed out that the exercises take place in Russia, the Russian Federation. So what kind of threat are we talking about? Why are the Američan in the Baltics? Why do they increase their military presence in Poland, in all these countries, a few thousand miles away from their territory? For this year alone - 2017 - the United States has released another $4.5 billion to strengthen its military presence on the European continent. Why? Who's putting us in military danger here? You can't use the army against terrorism, we've already tried it. We need other organs for terrorists. Against refugees? Do you want to send tanks or air force against mothers and children, against those who run from hunger or before the war? By the way, before the war, which has usually unleashed efforts to export our Euro-Atlantic civilization. This is what, among other things, we are paying a pretty high tax in Europe right now, because we have not been able to control our interests, and we are not going to take on some bizarre game. Speaking of that crazy threat from Russia, let me just give you a few figures provided by the Swedish International Institute for Peace Research this spring, an organization that regularly publishes data on how military budgets, for example, look. Just for orientation. We're moving - the numbers are in dollars, so they're billions of dollars. So while there would be a number in the Czech Republic that would be close to $2 billion, others are really dramatically larger sums. According to the Swedish Institute for Armament, Russia is allegedly spending $69.2 billion on nearly $70 billion. Huge amount, no doubt! China 215. Okay, well, China is an economic giant who has huge free money, he probably doesn't know what to do with it, and apparently the situation in the east is so dramatic that he has to do it. So let's say China, but it's far away. United States 611. 611 was before Donald Trump decided on a one-off, in addition, an increase of about 50 billion more. So the budget of the United States went up by leap. It's not moving to the 3.6 anymore, but the expenses have increased. This means that the technology scissors between the United States and the rest of the Alliance will continue to expand, because with ours, even hypothetically, 2% will not reach their level anyway and we will continue to solve an unsolvable problem. From the figures I have said so far, it follows that Russia is spending only 27 percent of the total expenditure of the European - European Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance, without the United States of America. [[with emphasis on:]] 27 percent! Who, then, is threatening whom? You know, we're in a weird situation. We are talking here in the presentation report, in its conclusion, about the fact that - I will quote - "the proposed action will be highly appreciated by the allies", certainly by some, "and will strengthen the bilateral security session with both the key regional strategic partner of the Federal Republic of Germany and the transatlantic ally of Canada, as well as with the Baltic countries." Great! [[9.50 hours]] So we will strengthen our credibility towards the Baltic countries, Germany and Canada, and we don't give a damn what happens to security worldwide. This step we are going to take now, if we approve of sending our troops two and a half years in advance, because they will be there until the end of 2018, this step will dramatically make the Czech Republic's security situation worse, not better. The position of the Czech Republic towards Germany, Canada and the Baltic countries may be better, yes, but if it will be useful to us in the future, I don't know. Allow me to conclude with just one more comment. At the security conference, we heard, among other things, that if someone had gone to work and calculated the so-called. the accumulated security debt, i.e. what the military could theoretically get if from around 2005 to today it was issued in defence of 2% of GDP, and it is almost 400 billion, the number has already been said here - 379 billion. CZK over the budgets of the army, above those budgets which are now practically real, have already exceeded 50 billion, and from which the army almost every year 4 billion. Returns because she's not able to spend it. Those are just the numbers we have to keep in mind. Someone is playing a bizarre game with us, which has no logic whatsoever and which is based on the wishes and maybe the interests of someone, but certainly not the citizens of our Republic and us in Central Europe. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that you will consider all the arguments that I have made here - and I could continue for at least an hour - very well. And regardless of the fact that it is customary in this House that when these proposals are discussed, the vote is just as much as the National Fronts, all present people simply have to raise their hand because they would not have explained otherwise. Please use your own brain, try to think about what the PPP project is necessary for, i.e. enhanced forward presence, and consider whether it is possible to do something more constructive for the security of the Czech Republic than to send 300 of our soldiers to the Baltics. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u7	Before I give the floor to Mr Okamur, Mr Laudát, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope you listened carefully not only to the appearance of the Communists yesterday to two treaties, one strategic and then specific economic, or framework economic, European Union with Canada, and also Mr Black today. What the Communists have been doing here lately is a real outrage. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] Well, I'm glad, I'm very glad to hear them say that. However, we should not be silent about this. If Mr. Černý wonders and talks about games here, it wasn't games, it was scoundrelism, what Russia did in Crimea, what it does today in Ukraine. Then go to Ukrainian churches, please! And one of your members saw it there! Tabla with dead sons who do nothing but defend their legitimate territory. Cut the fucking bullshit you're trying on us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u9	In fact, Mr Kováčik, then Mr Černý and then Mr Ondráček. All factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u10	Mr President, Madame and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. Allow me, with a reference to the Constitution of the Czech Republic and democratic customs, to gently raise my eyebrows over what has just been said here in the speech of the previous speaker. Sorry, I am so sorry that, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws of this country, the Communists dared to say their opinion, the truth, different from yours, Mr Laudát through the President! I am truly deeply, deeply committed to all the citizens who voted for you because you are the right dam against communism and Russia, I apologize to them. To all others who allow us, and not only to us, but also to the others who are here for other political parties, I do not apologize, but thank you for listening to us. And that our arguments, which represent the views of a large part of the country's population, listen, listen, and also respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u11	Mr Černý, then Mr Ondráček, then Mr Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, what my colleague Laudát has done is quite smiling. I really remembered, at that security conference that I mentioned here, among other things, the head of the Centre for Anti-Terrorism at the Ministry of the Interior, and there was a sentence out of his mouth that I noted. Not that there's too many sentences to mark, but that one thing really caught my eye, and I can see that it has quite an impact. Quote. Mr. Benedikt Vangeli, if I didn't knock that name down, said: "Thinking other than the official doctrine means defending the interests of foreign power. " He said that in the Czech Parliament at a conference on security. There it is, again, the head of the Center against Terrorism of the Ministry of the Interior of the Czech Republic. It's just to show that the sentences that Mr Laudát has just given here are quite a warning. If we continue this spirit, we will soon see what has absolutely nothing to do with democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u13	Mr Ondráček, then President Kalousek and then Mr Laudát. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, there are 200 of us. I don't know how many of you had the courage to get your ass up and go to those areas that František Laudát, my colleague, spoke so beautifully about, how they live there in Donbas and what's going on there to see for themselves. Because talking about something I haven't seen with my own eyes can really be someone like Mr. Laudát. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u15	Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow a brief response to President Kováčik, who says: Should I apologise to Mr Laudát for having an opinion? But Mr Laudát has made it quite clear that it is actually a good thing that this is how it sounds. If I take the debate yesterday on the European Union's Treaty with Canada, if I take the debate today, it is really good that you are no longer hiding that you are the Fifth Putinův Column. You guys aren't hiding it at all. It is only necessary to make it very clear, and that is what Mr Laudát did. And that's the democratic view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u17	Mr Laudát, then Mr Holík, then President Kováčik. All factual points. And I will announce that Mr Černý votes with card 74. Mr Laudát has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u18	Thank you. The fact is, unlike other political tourists, I don't go to Crimea for Russian money, Donbasa and occupied territories. I'm gonna take a look at the mess that those tourists with the Separatists' domestic wreckage caused there. How many people have been killed. I'm just saying, there's nothing stopping you, take a plane or take a train to Lviv and go to those churches and see the blackboards of those dead young boys. [[10.00 hours]] Why? Why today's 21st century? Russia has a small territory? Russia has a small fortune that it still needs to upset someone? Thank God for the Trump speech in Warsaw. I understand that patience and great liberalism and the belief that everyone behaves well and normally have ended and that some steps simply need to be answered decisively. Unfortunately, we are in a position to say to Russia: here is the line and you are not going through it. And who serves whom, what powers... I always serve this nation and this country! But I am not at all sure of the long-term and historically who you serve when your predecessors accepted the occupation of their own country! [[Upset.]] Racing wealth for the benefit of some Soviet Union! They don't have enough to still have to loot Central Europe - or have they historically? So stop it. We all know what we're talking about. And I don't want our citizens - maybe they don't have all the information, they don't always get everything, but I don't want it, and that's what we're responsible for here, I don't want people in the Baltics and everywhere - every state, every nation has the right to decide how it wants to live. And tonight, to go somewhere and occupy somebody! Threaten! Sending armed people dressed in plainclothes on vacation! Well, that's an outrage, and that's something that needs to be answered decisively! And, of course, we're in the North Atlantic Alliance, and I'm glad we're going to be a reliable and defined partner, just like the draft of the treaty or agreement that's here. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u19	Mr Holík has the floor now, and President Kováčik and other entries will be prepared. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u20	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I apologize for changing the subject. I have one very bad quality. I don't like wearing blindfolds, and if something's not clear to me, I'm gonna get up and go there. I've run through Ukrajinec refugee camps running to Russia. There's about four million of them. And I asked everyone why you're running here. And they said - because that's the only salvation for us. Yes. I was in Crimea this year. The papers made it a huge scandal that I was at a party somewhere. It's not true. I was driving my phone again, and I was doing interviews with people. And everyone was happy that they were in a different setting. I even spoke to the Tatar officials. They all felt the same way. So please, let's not believe what's going on, let's get our ass up and get in there!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u21	Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u22	I have also seen other exhibitions of photographs - bombed schools, bombed factories, bombed offices, bombed apartments, family houses in the Donetsk and Luhan region - Ukrainian, in your opinion, by their own soldiers, their own army. When we talk about looting and looting here, I think only now that neither water nor sand belongs to us, and when we're saving up whether we're gonna own the lithium that's on the wallpaper, that only now do we feel like it's being looted, that we're in a hideous economy, a stolen republic. After all, the motto of one of our political opponents was - and under the motto he also got here in the House and it is up to you, some colleagues, from the so-called. traditional political parties - all stealing - aren't they, Mr President Babiš? It was your password. And it was quite well accepted by the citizens, you are the strongest now. Well, I guess it's about looting the republic, too. And as for the fifth column. We do not consult Russian, Chinese, British, American, and French embassies, as some of you do, without being completely exposed and regularly, or as you may call it, you come here to apply it. Communists serve this people, the people of this country within the meaning of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, in the sense of the promise we made to the people! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u23	Mr Ondráček, then Mr Mackovík and then Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will only respond briefly to Mr František Laudát's speech. Mr František Laudát, through Mr President, you basically accused me of travelling somewhere else's money. If that's the case, prove it. If not, you're a dirty liar and apologize.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u25	Mr Mackovík and then Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u26	Hello, Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues. I would briefly like to respond to some of the things that have been said here in connection with who robbed whom. Thus, the Member States of the North Atlantic Alliance over the last 14 years have contributed to the plundering of seven states and the destruction of seven political systems that have replaced, in general, the Islamic State or similar movements. A few years ago, when we started sending our troops to Afghanistan, we heard that we were sending them there to keep your chins and the Kalashnikov out of our streets. And who is running the streets of those Western states that are spreading democracy into the world now? We have soldiers abroad, and the political situation has not improved, but has deteriorated. Since we've heard a lot of words here, how we've done it wrong, how you do it brilliantly. So really, you're doing it brilliantly. We have a klepto-cracy that came from what the West has been de facto paying for all these years. You like to talk about democracy, but remember - you condemn 1968, you condemn the invasion, the Danube operation, and yet constantly and with the intensity of ever increasing you try to send soldiers abroad to spread your true thoughts anywhere in the world, no matter what the people who live there think about it. And then don't be surprised that your political ambitions in the world are dying to death and that your policies are failing to spread. And one last thing I'm gonna try to say. Nor the subjection of our fourth rapid deployment brigade in that tenth division of jackeswehr, respectively. The troops that came out of the Wehrmacht and fought in Africacorps, that's just an example of how this Western democracy can be distorted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u27	Chairman Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I really don't know where the communist insolence is coming from, with which they speak and twist the facts. They did it all the time, they did it before World War II, they do it after her. Those communists who slaughtered the elite of the Czech nation after 1945, who forced the elite of the Czech nation in 1968 to leave this country, who plundered our mineral wealth, who destroyed our country so that some regions cannot recover from it to this day! So they have the courage to preach to us here? Please, let's all remember what's going on here today! I believe that all democratic parties will join together at this moment and stand up to what the Communists are doing here! [[Upset. Tightened atmosphere in the hall.]] Because this has really crossed the line!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u29	President Kováčik and then Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u30	I would dare at least try to end this situation with an ancient joke - I will follow up with my colleague Kučera. When we talk all the time about the looting, the burned country, etc. It was told until recently, now it's true sad history - do you know what was the greatest crime of communism? The answer is-- well, the fact that they only left the property here for 20 years, now there's nothing really to steal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u31	Mr Ondráček and then Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u32	Thank you again. A real comment on Mr Kučer. I have to say, he's right. Yes, the elite have left, they've left the deer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u33	Chairman Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u34	Thank you for your word. The deer really stayed - on my left. However, I would like to explain to us the joke that the Prime Minister of Communists, those reformed communists who have spent 20 years here trying to explain to us how they reform, how they distance themselves from what they've been doing here for the last 60 years... So today we see that the reform did not take place at all. Today it has become quite clear that the Communists are not reformed. Those are the communists who claim the '48. It's them. We heard it here today. [[10.10 hours]] And the joke, Mr Kováčik, through Mr President, he sounded a little different. The joke was about communists living as long as they had enough factories from the first republic they stole. That's how long communists lived. And I think all of us who have more than 40 years, so we remember well the underfunded factories, the means of production, the machines that were actually there from the first Republic. And I would compare the lifetime of these machines to the lifetime of the communists, because when the machines ended, the communists ended up in the '80s.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u35	Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u36	Speaking of the lifetime, Mr Kučera, through the President, the last few months have shown this lifetime quite well in trendy terms. Let us look at the preferences of individual political parties. TOP 09's still there, too. Again. And maybe it's because you're fighting past wars. And those that need to fight now for today, for tomorrow, for citizens of the Czech Republic, such as thinking deeply about how we will help farmers cope with the consequences of catastrophic drought, you refuse to fight. Maybe you voted for it yesterday, maybe you didn't, I don't know, I didn't check it out. But let's go back to why we're here - to serve the citizens. And let's stop campaigning here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u37	So now we have seven factual points. [[Fun in the hall.]] First Minister Stropnický, then Mr Blažek, Fiedler, Kalousek, Laudát and so on. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be extremely brief. I'm very interested in the broad-spectrum debate, but I'd like to ask if we could go back to the Baltics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u39	Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u40	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'm listening to the debate here. And I don't really like this kind of parliamentary firefight, even though I'm worried that it's only for the media to write about it, and I don't feel like going into some kind of fight with communists, for example, because it doesn't really make any sense. There's a group of people who just vote for them. And for me, that question sounds completely different, and let's just think about it. And we're not gonna figure it out. If I'm not mistaken, we are actually the only nation where the Communist Party, which kept the name communist, has successfully survived everything that happened after 1989. So the question is more for sociologists, political scientists, historians, what it is that it is for us. I'm not going to settle this by arguing with Mr. Kováčik, Mr. Semelová. It's just reality. And I'm interested in that question from this point of view, and we're not gonna solve it here. But just realize that if I am not mistaken, there is only one Communist party in the European Parliament, and that is ours that has kept the title. Under the previous regime, or if you want the Eastern bloc in Hungary or Poland, they did not dare to name those parties as communist, not even in the GDR. Their names were different. So I'd rather ask, he doesn't watch the debate in July today, but I'd like to hear from some political scientists, historians, sociologists what it is that the word communist has such a sound in our country. And I'm not really gonna solve this with some shootings here. I'd like to sort it out if I could figure out what it is and change the mentality of part of our nation. But I'm not gonna be able to do that from this counter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u41	Mr Fiedler, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u42	Thank you for the floor. I was about to cancel my application because what I wanted to say was said by both Minister Stropnický and President Kováčik. To get back to the subject at hand. Save this ideological fight, colleagues, for the election campaign. But it was the words of my colleague Blažek that moved me to say it here. Let these people decide to express themselves. And on the question that was raised here in the air, I think the butter on the head has both sides of this dispute. I don't stand on either side or the other side. But why does something survive here, I guess that's how all the previous governments in the past ruled here. Let's get back to the subject. I've said it a few times before, you all know how you're gonna vote, the way I know it. Let's not drag this out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u43	Mr Kalousek and then Mr Laudát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u44	Excuse me, just re-answer the head of the KSČM club. We are not fighting past wars, Mr President, through Mr President. But the fact that we oppose the Communists in political parties other than the KSČM shows that we are equally tough. It's because we don't want to wait for those past wars that we're fighting future wars so that what we sometimes remind of doesn't come back. We could have discussed the drought. That has nothing to do with it. And the debate, although it seems to be broad-spectrum, is related to the Baltics, Minister, because there are just quite significant political forces that fundamentally question our allied commitments, either within NATO or within the European Union. Communists aren't hiding it, they're doing it completely systemically, and they need to know how to name it. And it is certainly not in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. It's in the interest of the Russian Empire.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u45	Mr Laudát, then Mrs Zelienková and then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u46	Thank you. I don't want to play last war like my colleague Kováčik said. On the contrary, I am very alarmed, albeit in my own way, to warn you that these are not past wars. In today's world, when everything is being questioned, when asymmetric wars are being waged, comrades certainly know what asymmetric wars are, so I point out here that there is a real force that threatens the fundamental political anchoring, the fundamental democratic setting of the Czech Republic. And he's doing it for the benefit of a foreign power. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u47	Mrs Zelienková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u48	I'd just like to take a hard look at the lies that fell from the Communists here, and unfortunately from my colleague Holík. Both of our Members have reached the occupied territory of Ukraine through the state occupying that territory. To this day, there are diplomatic contradictions between Ukraine and the Czech Republic. That you are not ashamed to take such steps and to spread such lies here from this speaking desk, as there are four million Ukrainian refugees in Russia, as the Crimean Tatař are satisfied that the Rus are occupying them! Show me one of the only Crimean Tatar to praise Russia's occupation of their territory. Like you're really not ashamed. I saw those people there. I was there, unlike you, legally and legitimately. And I talked to people who are crippled. I saw children who lost limbs by bombing Russian grads in Ukrainian territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u49	I'd like to ask those colleagues who want to express themselves so that they do so on the microphone. Mr. Chairman Kováčik, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u50	That number of four million refugees really isn't exactly accurate. There's 4,200,000 of them. Sorry about the inaccuracies. Let me get this straight. Communists may have kept their opinions despite the official line, their anchoring among people who did not restitute, steal, feed or feed on honest work, whether by hand or by heads who remained loyal to patriotic values, so maybe that's why, unlike the TOP 09, we do not accept defectors, we do not budge by being widely open. [[Unique applause from TOP 09 benches]] [[10.20 hours]] We're clearly saying what we're up to, and we insist, and we stay with it. We are constructive about the opposition, we do not destroy anything at all costs, but we choose what is content, not who is presenting it. Perhaps this is why the citizens of the Czech Republic continue to trust us so much that they entrust us with this mandate of the service of the people in every parliamentary, regional, etc. elections. I thank the citizens of the electorate for this, and I believe they will do so this October. But what I want to say is that I regret Minister Stropnický, who has brought in material that we deeply disagree with - but it is very different from us, Minister. The discussion could have been over a long time ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u51	That was the last point in fact, and if no one is making a factual comment, I will give the floor to Mr Okamur and Vice-President Filip will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u52	Ladies and gentlemen, we have a proposal for the presence of less than 300 soldiers of the Czech Army in the framework of NATO forward forces in the Baltic Republics. At the outset, I say that our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, does not support this proposal. We support something else. We clearly support effective and effective defence cooperation in increasing the defence capacity of the Baltic States. Such cooperation would require an initiative by the V4 States to assist in training the forces of the Baltic States. We have no problem helping Baltic states build their own defense forces. That's one thing. But placing NATO expeditionary forces there is another matter. NATO's expeditionary forces will significantly increase tensions in relation to Russia. We're sending our troops to an area where there can be a huge escalation of war danger in Europe. There are already voices in the US calling for the termination of the agreement to destroy small- and medium-range missiles. If this happens and these rockets appear in the Baltics, it will provoke war with Russia. Russia will have to act, just as Kennedy reacted to Soviet missiles in Cuba. In the war, we can find ourselves without anyone asking for the opinion of our country's constitutional officials, for three hundred of our soldiers, who will be in the Baltics precisely because we do not have time to make decisions. Since NATO's attack on Yugoslavia, since the actions of NATO states in Libya, I consider it dangerous for us to be blindly drawn into military adventures that are against the interests of our citizens. I repeat, let us support the defence forces of the Baltic countries, but let us not support the deployment of the NATO expeditionary corps. It is a mechanism that will lead to further escalation of tensions in the east of Europe. The tension that started the coup d'état in Ukraine. Let us ask: Is there a danger to the Baltic countries today? I think it's serious, but it's different than what we're dealing with today. Today, Baltic countries are emptying out in a dramatic way. People are leaving here. They may leave because they do not see their future in a country that is about to be a battlefield. In conclusion, I would like to mention a little thing that is multiplying my fears. It's a US military convoy accident that clogged our D1 highway last weekend. Whoever agreed to move the military convoys along the D1 motorway to the first holiday weekend is an irresponsible amateur, and I'm terrified that such an amateur has the security of our country in hand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u53	Mr Blažek, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u54	Very briefly in relation to Mr Okamura. All these four nations that live in these four states - I recognize that there are still Russian minorities, except Poland, significant - have a rich experience, what it means when they rely on themselves. That means saying that we're going to help them build some army of their own, that means letting them basically suck, there's no other way to say it. But they themselves know it well, they have the historical memory, and they know very well, including Poland, which is the biggest of them, I mean now in population and territory, that in a moment, and now I'm going to make it very simple, if Russia moves, maybe Germany, they just don't stand a chance. And they've been in a cynical game of greatness many times, that they just have nothing left... If they relied on themselves, they always took place, just that they were on maps, and one of the bigger ones repainted them. They don't want to be in this anymore. And just to say that we're gonna leave it up to them, means we're gonna give them this historic destiny that just is. And by the way, our fate was often not entirely different from that either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u55	I'll beg you to be patient. Mr Stanjura and then Mr Vácha. Real notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u56	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, first a simple message. The ODS Club will support this material, I think that's right. Although we are, I would say, a very principled opposition, there are things in which we support the government, and that is precisely this case. I have listened quite patiently to my colleagues from the KSČM not to be angry with me, the outrageous performances that they have performed here, and I want to say that in addition to fulfilling our allied obligations, we should remember the fate of these nations. And I would follow up on my colleague Pavel Blažek. We've shared the same fate for many years. You forgot whose occupation troops were on our turf? And look at those states where our powers are supposed to work. They have similar historical experience. So what are we talking about here? We are talking about the fact that some, although formally pretending not to agree to this in 68, basically apologize for the international assistance until today. There are many who really like us, actually... It's a real problem for us. But there are many - and I know they've been elected, I'm not questioning it, nor would I call their performance obstruction, they have the right to say their opinions here that they don't agree. But there are those among us who don't hide from it that they feel differently. But the rest of us, in turn, have every right to remind the historical context and to help, at least in a small way, the nations that have the same historical experience as us. And I am convinced and I am sure that the House of Deputies will show it in the vote and that the vast majority of elected Members in this House have sat, sat and will sit and will help us fulfill our allied obligations and moral obligations towards the nations that have a similar experience to ours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u57	Thank you. Mr. Vácha.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I wanted to follow up on my colleague Blažek very briefly. If we don't help them, who will help us if we need them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u59	If there are no further factual remarks, then Vice-President Vojtěch Filip shall have the floor with the proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u60	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, allow me to comment on the few issues that have been raised here in the debate and in the factual remarks. You know, I don't want to comment on some of this nonsense, and I won't, but I'm sorry that those who talk about ruined churches in the territory of this or that state didn't speak so clearly at the time that the terrorist organization UCK plundered 424 churches in the territory of Kosovo and Metochia. I didn't hear that. And I have in my speech, and I will say it right now - the war in Yugoslavia was a war against Europe. It was a war against Europe because of the state that existed and worked here and was one of the decisive states, non-participating states, small states and territories of the Muslim state have been formed here in Europe. And that's gonna be a big problem for the future, and we should admit it. [[10.30 hours]] I have nothing against the fulfilment of allied commitments, and on a direct question at the security conference, I said that we should keep those commitments, including financial ones, until we agree to change them. And so if we are a valid member of a community, whether the European Union or NATO, and the difference here is obvious, then we have the commitments that we have accepted, also to fulfil, or to try to change them as a rightful member. The difference is essential. The difference between our accession to the EU and our accession to NATO is determined by whether the will of the citizens entered, whether the accession was legitimate. The legitimacy of EU accession is indisputable. And I am not hiding how I voted, but I have to respect the will of Czech citizens that most of those who participated in the referendum have legitimately decided on our accession to the EU, and therefore the legitimacy is high, the responsibility of citizens towards this accession is also high, and it is also less questionable than our participation in other groups. And now to the legitimacy of joining the North Atlantic Alliance. We adopted the Washington Treaty by decision of the political parties in the Chamber of Deputies in March 1999 under pressure from the Alliance Member States because there are no states like Switzerland or Austria in this Alliance, and they will not be there either, appreciating their neutrality, and the Alliance of Frankfurt am Main needed to fly through our territory to bomb Yugoslavia. Fourteen days after our entry into NATO, the House of Deputies decided to fly through our territory from Frankfurt and bombed our basically European neighbor. I was there - April 6th for the first time and then I was there several times. And if anyone is talking about the dead, I had the right to represent the mother who was murdered by the NATO bomb in Belgrade Hospital before the Civil Tribunal, which was founded by many political parties and civil associations in Europe (?). I defended her right to compensation both in Berlin and in Paris and in Kiev. At that time, such a conference could still be held in Kiev. And don't blame me for asking where the legitimacy of the decision adopted by the Czech Parliament came from to join the Washington Treaty when none of the political parties had it in their 1998 electoral programme. You remember that after 1996 we had extraordinary elections after so-called. Klausův' packages, when the state budget fell apart, had to make adjustments and extraordinary elections were called. Yes, and for those extraordinary elections, find out if any of the political parties openly said that they wanted the Czech Republic to join the Washington Treaty. You won't find it there! In addition to some comments from individuals who have run and have rather not gone to this Chamber of Deputies during the parliamentary term 1998 to 2002. And the legitimacy of such a decision is seriously threatened, and therefore I am glad that the debate is conducted not by screams, forgive me, some to which I do not want to respond, but at the level of whether we have a solution and if the solution is what is called increasing tensions. I was talking at the security conference about the lack of security in Europe. I'm gonna try to repeat some of the things I said at the conference here. Not in order to save myself a job and not give a speech for today, but because the decision of the Chamber of Deputies under Rule 43 is a very serious decision. Very serious! It may also not be adopted by a simple majority but by a qualified majority of 101 votes. I understand that most people in this House are convinced that this is the only solution, and they will have legitimate reasons for fear of a military shift and of being occupied by the Baltic States. But I don't see the fear that way. I'm convinced we can't live in past schematics. I am convinced, and the Minister of Defence laughed at me in a television debate that no conference would secure security. And I believe that at a time when there is no war, it is time for conferences and negotiations on security in Europe. And we are, at this point, the President of the OSCE country, the President of the Helsinki Protocol. Many years have passed since 1975. Why do you think it makes no sense after so many years since 1975 to hold a new security conference to ensure the security of European states? But they won't guarantee it like after 1975, the United States of America and the Soviet Union, because we're not in a bipolar world. The world has changed significantly since 1989 and we are thinking, forgive me, in the bipolar world scheme! Are we really that incapable of seeing reality? We are not able - you who are university teachers, you who have great experience from companies or politics, we really cannot say that we need a new security conference for the future in 2017 where they will guarantee those already firmly anchored states of the multipolar world, that is, again, the United States of America, instead of the Soviet Union of the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China, that Europe will not be a warplace? We don't want that? It's Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania that doesn't want us to be a battlefield so their territory can't be a place of military operations? You think if we send soldiers there won't be a war? My colleague Blažek said quite a clear thing in his short speech. When they were alone, they were beaten. When we were alone, we were also beaten. We are at the crossroads of Europe, and we cannot defend ourselves. We need an alliance - not an alliance that is forced upon people. We need an alliance that results from our need to have a safe state, and a safe state can only be given by protecting Europe's external borders well. And that's something someone has to guard, but NATO's been avoiding it so far, it didn't want to deal with it. At first quite, forgive me, silly legacy that it is not a matter of the Washington Treaty. So what did we make this alliance for? I wonder if anyone will think of us creating a European army and putting... There is no such situation among humans. [[10.40 hours]] We are certainly able together to secure Europe's external borders and ensure that those who threaten the security of citizens do not enter here. If you really think you can find thousands of people on the streets who are afraid of the threat of the Russian Federation, you won't find them, but each other will tell you that they're afraid of the threat of terrorism, everyone is afraid that they can't go safely tonight, forgive me for dancing fun or for some big concert or some rock or country music festival or something else. Well, because the wave of terrorism went through all of Europe. And it doesn't matter if it was in Paris or London or Stockholm or Germany or St. Petersburg at first. Yes, the whole of Europe. Even in the Russian Federation, these terrorist attacks have gone through. And those who raped women in Germany, here in Munich or Nuremberg, on New Year's Silvestr, weren't Russian soldiers. Of course, those were the migrants Angela Merkelová invited there. Let's get this straight. What prevents us from talking about the need to convene a new security conference in NATO, our parliamentary assembly, is an institution. I'm mad at the Minister of Foreign Affairs. His speech here at the start of this press was not enough in my opinion, it wasn't just a flop, it was so "I'm sure the MPs are voting here, so what would I do"? At least that's what the Secretary of Defense said. At least he said the technical stuff. But the Minister of Foreign Affairs here was supposed to say, 'Yes, the situation is this, the security threat is that and that's that.' And we would either accept it or not accept it. But I do not consider the security assessment contained in this press as a genuine security threat not only to the Czech Republic but also to the Baltic states. I don't see it that way. I understand the dispute between the Russian Federation, Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia. I understand what it's all about. You know, when you have non-citizens - and we have not heard from them when these three states entered the European Union, they have not admitted to the citizens of the Russian nationality the citizenship of the Baltic State. We didn't say anything. We didn't care. And yet here we all fought in the breasts, that it is simply the democracy that is supposed to be here, and that we will not give way to those principles when we joined the European Union. But we retreated from them, we didn't care. Speaking of Ukraine, we suddenly don't care what's going on. That President Porošenko lies to the face at a press conference, and the NATO Secretary General is unable to answer that it is not at all true that NATO is clear that Ukraine will enter the Washington Treaty. He's not clear on this. He's lying at a press conference and nothing's happening. We know what political processes are going on in Kiev, and we say again - but here we have adopted a sort of association agreement with Ukraine and we have ignored that it does not meet the fundamental democratic principles that we are talking about. So please let us no longer consider the past and consider that the Czech Republic as legitimate - and that is why I have said about the legitimacy of joining the Washington Treaty, the Alliance - as a legitimate member of the community, something other than the former bipolar world scheme cannot be enough for us. After all, we need a new security conference to ensure the security of the Czech Republic, to ensure the security of Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, so that foreign soldiers cannot enter, just by guaranteeing the three fixed points of the multipolar world that I have named, among other things, are three permanent members of the Security Council, and we will be able to say yes, Prague was a new place in Helsinki. We will be partners of the three permanent members of the Security Council as the Czech Republic. You don't have the guts? Maybe the Foreign Minister doesn't have the guts. I should be so brave to suggest it. We could have done it, at least for the last time at the G20. Why didn't we do it like the Czech Republic? Why didn't our deputies say that? You know, the past isn't part of making decisions about things that have nothing to do with us making decisions outside our two-year mandate. You know the next MPs won't change that? Do you know how many Members remain from the last parliamentary term in 2013? A third. And two-thirds of the Members who will be here, if the same number is exchanged, can decide completely differently. And we're gonna tie them to something that's gonna be hard to change. You have the courage. I don't. I don't want to do that. I have no intention of tying them. But the point of my speech is to say: this is not building up the next European security, that we will send soldiers somewhere. Let me go back to the reason I think it's wrong. I quoted Christin van Busgardová at the security conference (?), this is a political analyst from Norway, the Alliance Member State, who says that the view compared to that of NATO member states and the view of the Russian Federation is essentially the same, except with the opposite sign. The Secretary-General of NATO and the former US Secretary of Defense have said that Russian military forces have never been so close to NATO troops, which is true, but the truth relative. Because, in the same sense and in the same spirit, the Russian Federation rightly objects that foreign armed forces have never stood so close to St Petersburg and Moscow since World War II. Isn't it, or isn't it? I understand that somebody loved the fact that Michail Gorbačov didn't get signed in the negotiations, that he wouldn't expand the North Atlantic Alliance if the Warsaw Treaty was abolished. Among other things, former Foreign Minister Jiří Dienstbier said in his work that the purpose of foreign policy was to abolish both pacts and create a new security architecture. That time has been wasted, but it's never too late to find a new security architecture. Alexander Černý reminded us that soldiers of the Russian army are practicing on the territory of the Russian Federation. If they had trained in the territory of Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia or Poland their troops, I don't think it would have increased the tension. But the problem is, there's another unit moving the Washington Treaty military alliance. And, of course, this is a matter that has to happen with those Russian military strategists -- and it's not a defense of foreign powers -- that's just how they can think -- and I'm gonna quote that Norwegian analyst again. There's just nothing left for them -- and Alexander Černý here said what the differences in military armor are -- but to take that their only defense is nuclear parity. Where are we? Because no one doubts that the United States of America is in technology, in military technology much further than against the Russian Federation, but especially the NATO Pact states. No one's questioning that. We certainly don't, because we don't have the most modern technology in our army. I remember when we were talking about buying new supersonic aircraft, and I got a reminder from the former National Defense Minister to ask if the Russian Federation would sell us the state-of-the-art megas and the United States of America to sell us the state-of-the-art supersonic aircraft. The answer of the then Deputy Minister of Defence to the Committee on Defence and Security - then even merged - was: not one state sells this state-of-the-art technology. Logically. We had a choice either flying F16 or we could buy French mirage or we ended up with how we ended up, which means we have Swedish Gripens. [[10.50 hours]] So I'm just pointing out that if there is to be a guarantee of security that there will be no conflict in Europe, just nuclear parity, that means that if someone attacked the Russian Federation, a retaliation attack will be such that those who would attack will have no advantage of it, it's not what we're supposed to be dealing with. It's not our goal to escalate tension. Our aim is to ensure security and peace in Europe. Please, let us take the path that our current Presidency in the OSCE allows us to take, let us take the path of organising the security conference, and instead of sending troops, let us try to organise something that will mean at least 30 years, or 35 years, as it has done in Helsinki, to ensure that Europe will not be the place of military operations, that armies of foreign states will not meet on our territory. There's a point. Not if we send 300 soldiers here to Lithuania or Latvia. And I understand concern, but I don't share the solution. And I can't share it, because it's a solution to the past that nothing can bring to the future. Don't be mad at me. Each of you will have a huge responsibility because the Constitution of the Czech Republic in Article 43 is quite strict and the Constitution's creators knew very well that sending soldiers to a foreign country could mean that we would become not a peacemaker, but an occupation, because not all of us in that country would welcome us, as it did in Afghanistan, as it did in Iraq, as it did in other states. Because every time he goes to another sovereign state, even at the request of the government, even if the government is legitimate, not all people accept it. Our responsibility is enormous, and I want to bear my responsibility. That's why I think instead of sending troops, we need to organize a conference while there's peace. Because if war starts, we'll have to negotiate a truce first -- some of the ceasefires have lasted 65 years, and the peace treaty hasn't been found yet, and elsewhere, they haven't even reached the truce and are still at war. And I really don't want a war in the 21st century! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u61	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. We will continue the general debate. I'm recording two factual points. Mr Stanjura will appear first, Mr Karel Černý will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u62	Thank you for the floor. We have heard many words, but the President of the Communist Party could sum it up in two sentences: we are against America, we are against NATO. That would be all. And unlike him, I do not want to live in a Europe whose security is guaranteed by Russia and China. Those are dangerous illusions. Really dangerous illusions. It's a kind of inciting tone, like it's obvious - it's not clear. I can take historical experience, but after the appearance of the Communist Party Chairman, I feel that the material is called the declaration of war to Russia, not a proposal for the forces of the Ministry of Defence in Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Poland. We are not really discussing such material. We could say that for every law, how is it that we accept the law that will apply in the next period? Well, I'm gonna make this very simple for you. Citizen Democrats support this material during this parliamentary term and will support similar materials in the next parliamentary term. Our voters know that. It is a matter that they can rely on, on which this government can also rely. It's very simple. You guys are just calling for old order, even though you're saying, well, there aren't two players left, and let's put on some weight, comrades, Čína. That's the recipe the Communists are offering us. And we believe that the security interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic are primarily ensured by NATO. It was the right decision to become full members of NATO.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u63	Thank you. Now, please, Mr Karel Černý, Vice-President Filip will prepare himself with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u64	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to follow up on Mr Stanjura, who spoke of historical experience, that our country has similar experience with the occupation of the Baltic countries. I think it's a little different. Before 1990, we learned in history that in 1941 the Nazi Germany invaded the Soviet Union, but we didn't learn much about the Molotov-Ribbentrop Pact, about the fact that the eastern part of Poland was taken up, that Polish intelligence had been murdered. And it wasn't just Katyň. We also did not learn that similar developments like Masarykův Czechoslovak Republic had in the Baltic countries Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia and that shortly after the conclusion of the Ribbentrop-Molotov Pact, Baltics were prevented by the Red Army. And there were similar processes here as in Poland and in the aforementioned Katyn. Finally, I would like to say that I fully support this proposal and vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u65	Thank you. Now Vice-President Vojtěch Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Quite simply. I don't know who taught who history. I was lucky to be a history teacher, and I learned about it, and there was even a Molotov-Ribbentrop pact in the textbooks. I'll find you that book. Of course, some didn't teach it, some taught it, but Professor František Hezoun, who was the director of our high school, took care of it because he was also the director of the primary nine-year-old school so that history wouldn't be distorted. I'm grateful for that today. And there's only one little thing for Stanjura's colleague's performance. I do not know that other states could guarantee security throughout the world, because the outcome of World War II is still valid, the UN Security Council's composition still applies. And only five States are permanent members of the Security Council: the United States of America, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic of China, France and Great Britain. So much for that. Who else would guarantee this than these three states, when the two states are involved, the United Kingdom and France, because they will also wish that war operations would not take place on their territory.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u67	Thank you. I'm recording two more factual points. First of all, Mr Jiří Koubek will appear, Mr Ivan Gabal will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like your help to the President of the Communist Party, Filip, when he is giving us history lessons here and in his long speech he is annoyed that, unlike joining the European Union, there has not been a popular referendum on NATO, I would like to ask him as an expert on history - I think I missed something in history - when there was a popular referendum on entering the Warsaw Treaty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u69	Thank you. Mr Ivan Gabal now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u70	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, on the one hand, I note that it is in the good tradition of the Communist Party to invite Russia to ensure our security. We have experience with this. It is only a pity that in 1975 the KSČ did not invite the West to jointly ensure our security. She didn't have the guts. [[11.00 hours]] But it is fundamentally true: if any of our allies feel threatened, we are obliged to provide support if we are to receive similar support if we are to receive such support. Historically, we've gotten into this situation several times, so we know how important this is. And if there's a reasonable sense of threat to our allies? At the time of the Beijing Olympics, someone attacked Georgia. During the Soviet Olympics, someone attacked Crimea and then the eastern Ukraine. There's a bigger tank of Russian power in eastern Ukraine than we have our own. And someone could even shoot down a civilian plane with innocent passengers. I think there's enough reason for our allies in the Baltic to be afraid, and there's enough reason to give them support in this fear. We're all gonna support this like a club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u71	Thank you, too. I don't see any more applications for the general debate. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I appeal to the Minister's final words. Please, Minister. Where appropriate, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u72	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very brief, but it's basically impossible to react to some of the sentences that have fallen here. I'm going to try to recapitulate the subject pretty easily. So we are members of the Alliance, we are members of the Alliance voluntarily. The Alliance works according to certain rules. Four Member States - our partners, our allies - have asked for help. It was decided at the Warsaw Summit at the level of the prime ministers and heads of Member States that this would be called the EFP programme and that individual Member States were asked for contributions, that the four battalions would be led by the British, Canada, Germany and the United States, and that the other Member States would contribute to this. It seems unthinkable for the Czech Republic not to participate in such a thing. What is this group? That's about 1,200 men, folks. 1,200 men times four. In September, there will be an exercise of the Russian army near the Polish and Belarusian border, called West 2017 and 80,000 soldiers will attend. I don't have to have too much imagination to use cyber-attacks, airspace disruptions, disruptions of the high waters of the Baltic countries to trust them to legitimize their fears. Any one of you, my dear colleagues, will visit and with whomever, virtually anyone he talks to, will hear that these fears are, and not just because of the very dramatic historical reminiscences. Not just for them. So I can't imagine that the Czech Republic, which wants and expects some safeguards from the Alliance against itself, would hesitate at this point in any way and not be a participated on it. We, of course, create conditions for our own safety. It's for the most practical of you. I would agree with perhaps the only sentence that fell from the left side of the political spectrum, and that is that our responsibility is enormous. It is. Because if we're going to back up here, if we're going to hesitate here, if we're going to calculate here, let's not count on somebody ever coming to help us in any need. And I would like to conclude by thanking all those who support this material, but not only those who support our membership of the Alliance, because - and perhaps that is the most important thing - it is the promotion of our belonging to the democratic space of Western Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u73	Thank you, too. I am asking the rapporteur for the final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u74	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. You know, you learn all the time. He learns humility, learns peace, learns to listen to opinions that he may not agree with, and does not draw any of his emotional responses and conclusions. I would like to make one comment on the debate. This Parliament of ours was so democratic in deciding to represent delegations that we have representatives of the Communist Party in the delegation of the Parliamentary Assembly. Nobody's protesting it. Everyone's okay with it. I just wish that members and members of the club should be able to learn about the things that the parliamentary assembly is discussing from the negotiations of this Parliamentary Assembly. I just wish that the last seminar held in Kiev last week, where matters of relations between Ukraine and Russia and Ukraine's security, would be heard by members of the KSČM Club. 33 people spoke in the debate, of which 30 people with a technical remark, which is very good that it contains the Rules of Procedure, otherwise we might still be sitting tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u75	Thank you, too. We will now proceed to a similar debate and ask who is claiming the floor. I will ask you, rapporteur, to refer to the committee's motion for a resolution in a detailed debate so that I can then put it to a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I therefore refer to a proposal I have already read and introduced to the entire House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u77	Thank you. Am I registering the Minister of the Environment's application? No, it's not. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. No one is reporting, in which case I conclude a detailed debate, and here too I ask the Minister and the rapporteur if you want the final word. It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. And there will be two votes, and for the vote on paragraph 1, the vote must be set to 101. I will read the motion for a resolution that I will put to the vote and ask for the vote to be set to 101. Thank you. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees with the action of the Ministry of Defence's forces and resources in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland in the framework of the enhanced NATO presence from 1 January 2018 to 31 January 2019 in total up to 290 people." I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. We will now vote on the first part of the resolution, and I am opening the vote. I ask who's in favour of the suggestion that he press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 174, 165 Members are registered, for proposal 119, against 34. This motion for a resolution has been agreed with. I will now put to the vote on the second part of the resolution, item 2, which reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is asking the Government to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic about the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in Lithuania, Estonia, Latvia and Poland in the framework of the strengthened NATO presence in 2018, by 30 June 2019 at the latest, of the presence of forces and resources of the Ministry of Defence in Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia and Poland in the framework of the Advanced Enhanced NATO presence in 2019, by 30 June 2020 at the latest." [[11.10 hours]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 175. 169 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 126, against no one. I note that this motion for a resolution has also been approved. Thank you. I am done discussing this point, and President Kalousek is reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u78	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me turn to the President of all three coalition parties in connection with the item just discussed. Many of us feel how important this point was for the international prestige of Czech foreign policy. What an extraordinary shame the Czech Republic would have suffered if this point had not been approved. What credibility we would lose with our allies in Europe and the North Atlantic Alliance. The government has a comfortable majority in this House, yet you have not been able, three government colleagues, to secure the necessary number of government Members to approve this point. If 29 votes from the right-wing opposition didn't help you, this point just didn't pass. If we were to politicize as you usually do, or if we were to shoot ice cream somewhere, as many of you also have a habit of sitting in the Chamber of Deputies, then the Czech Republic simply had a terrible shame and what the Minister said could not imagine would become reality. It is a matter of your complete lack of consistency, inability to know the priorities and inability to make the necessary decisions in the interests of the Czech Republic. You guys just didn't have enough votes here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-003-171.u79	Thank you. We'll continue the program. I'll read the apologies first. Today, from 5:30 p.m. to 7:00 p.m., Mr Leo Luzar apologizes for reasons of work. Today, between 17 o'clock and the end of the day, Mr Marek Černoch apologizes for reasons of work and today from 10 to 11 o'clock, Mr Martin Plíšek apologises for reasons of work. And I'm opening up another point in today's meeting, and that's it.
