ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-006-199.u1	199. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Minamat Convention on Mercury, adopted in Kumamoto on 10 October 2013 /German press 968/ - first reading In this case, the proposed proposal will be presented by the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-006-199.u2	Thanks again for the word. Allow me to present the Government's proposal to approve the ratification of the so-called Minamat Convention on Mercury. The aim of this Convention, adopted on 10 October 2013 in Kumamoto, Japan, is to protect human health and the environment from emissions and leakages of mercury and mercury compounds caused by human activity. It is no secret that mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to all living organisms, including humans, especially the nervous and cardiovascular system, and especially because mercury persists in the environment and its emissions to the air are subject to global long-range atmospheric transmission. While it can be said from the point of view of Europe that European Union legislation had previously had instruments to regulate mercury management, measures limited to the geographical area of the European Union were insufficient to address the global problem of mercury. It is therefore positive that a global solution - through the Minamat Convention - will be supported -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-006-199.u3	I'm sorry, Minister, but again I have to ask for silence, especially in the left side of the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-006-199.u4	Thank you for that, Mr President. I do not take it personally, I have not delivered the European Convention on the Landscape and it seems that I do not succeed even with mercury. But mercury, colleagues, is far more dangerous, so beware of it, which will contribute to improving the environment and increasing the protection of human health in the Czech Republic as well. In this context, the ratification of the Convention by the Czech Republic is not only beneficial for our country, but also strengthens the international reputation and respect of the Czech Republic. The annex to Parliament's presentation report describes the relationship between the obligations arising from the Minamat Convention and the key European Union regulations and the future new mercury regulation. It can be noted that the issue of mercury is largely addressed in EU law and in the relevant national legislation. The adoption of the Convention itself at the level of the Czech Republic will thus not have significant consequences in this regard. The obligations arising from the Convention which are not yet covered, such as restrictions on imports of metallic mercury, restrictions on exports of mercury-containing products, restrictions on the use of mercury in certain production processes and on new production and products, a ban on small-scale gold mining using mercury and restrictions on the use of dental amalgam will be reflected in the new mercury regulation. The Convention will enter into force after ratification by 50 countries. In view of the fact that the Convention has already been ratified by 35 countries and among them economically significant states such as the United States, China and Japan, it can be expected that the Convention will enter into force by mid-2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-006-199.u5	Thank you, too. And here too, I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Václav Zemek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-006-199.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll follow up on the minister. First of all, maybe why the contract is called what it's called. A colleague asked me about it. It is called that because it is such a symbolic historical name, because it was in the Bay of Minamato that the first mass poisoning occurred, or a registered mass mercury poisoning, when about 40 local fishermen were poisoned and killed. Hence the name of the convention. Otherwise, it has already been said that the Convention aims to limit the harmful effects of mercury on living organisms in the environment. When I say this very simply, it introduces European standards into the international sphere. As far as the impact on the Czech Republic or our industry, our businesses, is concerned, the impact is quite minimal. Mostly it's minimal impact, but I feel one point like that, and that's using the amalgam seals. In fact, we already meet most of the terms that the contract contains. Nevertheless, and then even in a detailed debate, I may suggest that the health committee discuss this material, which is not against anything. I hope my colleagues study it, and if there's a problem, I'm sure they'll give us a heads-up. Otherwise, what the treaty contains. As has been said here, for example, it contains restrictions on the availability of mercury, so let us understand the extraction. Mercury is not mined in the Czech Republic. Another thing is the restriction during production processes. That's where mercury is used during chlorine production using electrolysis, and that's where I think one operation is supposed to end this year. So I guess there's a certain impact. Another thing is the use of mercury in gold mining, which does not concern the Czech Republic, even in our country is forbidden gold mining in general. The use of mercury-containing products, I think, affects the very amalgam seals. But as I said before, I'll recommend a hearing with the Health Committee. Otherwise, I recommend to proceed to second reading and, in addition to the Health Committee, certainly to discuss the Committee of Foreign Affairs. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-006-199.u7	I, too, thank you, rapporteur, and I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I don't see an application. If this is the case, I am ending the general debate and asking whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor here. It's not like that. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed, by his decision, to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee. I wonder if anyone else has a draft commandment to the committees. Foreign and...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-006-199.u8	I was the one who suggested the health committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-006-199.u9	Medical, thank you. Is there another suggestion on the commandment? I can't see. We will therefore vote on individual committees alone. I'm registering the application for check-out, so I'm going to unsubscribe you. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. Therefore, first of all, we will vote on who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 70, 109 Members and Members registered, for proposal 106, against no one. the proposal has been adopted. I will also put to the vote and initiate the vote and ask who agrees that this proposal be directed to the Health Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 71, 109 Members and Members signed in, in favour of proposal 92, against 3. This proposal has also been adopted. I note that this government proposal has been ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee and the Health Committee. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I thank both the rapporteur and the Minister. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
