ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u1	3. The draft law amending Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended, and other related laws /German press 927/7/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments and the resolution was delivered to you as House press 927/8. I welcome Senator Jitka Seitlová among us. Welcome, Senator. I ask that the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled be expressed by the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u2	Mr President, Madame Senator, ladies and gentlemen, today I have been before you for the fourth time with this bill, Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on zoning and construction regulations, and only the construction law, as amended. I would like to mention that this amendment entails 44 further changes in the related laws. [[16.50 hours]] On 5 April 2017, the Chamber of Deputies agreed with the Government's proposal for an amendment to the Construction Act, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. The Senate discussed the draft amendment to the Construction Act at its meeting on 7 June 2017, where the amendment was approved with the amendments adopted. Today, I personally hope, we are coming to the end of the legislative process and I come before you with a law that has admitted changes to the Senate and that is why it has also been returned to the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to say a little bit at the outset that the preparation of this law was very difficult, very demanding, in essence all departments, regions, municipalities, cities, actors from associations, associations etc. were involved. Of course, this law as a building law is horizontal so that many activities can function according to the competence law of other departments. I'd like to mention again what the aim of this novel is. The aim of this amendment is to simplify, transparency and speed up the acquisition of building permits. Personally, I hope, whether in the House version, we have succeeded in the Senate version. Within the Senate, several, not hundreds, only a few amendments were proposed, where the Senate adopted a few, some it did not accept, and I would now introduce you to the key ones concerning the building law, the horizontal one, which is in the Gesture of the Ministry for Local Development, but also to the key amendments adopted by the Senate of the Czech Republic in the context of related laws. As far as the construction law is concerned, in the area of spatial planning, an amendment was agreed at the Senate plenary, which will enable the new zoning plan to be drawn up on the basis of a report on the implementation of the zoning plan. This report shall be processed in accordance with the construction law required for each zoning plan and shall be submitted to the council of the relevant municipality at least once every four years from the issuance of the zoning plan. In general, this evaluation may result in three basic options for further action: the zoning plan continues to meet the needs of the municipality for development and there is no need for any further changes, or the zoning plan needs to be amended in part, and it is therefore necessary to amend the zoning plan, or a completely new zoning plan needs to be drawn up. However, on the basis of this report, it has not yet been possible to create a completely new zoning plan, only to change it. The amendment from the Senate changes this, which means that some of the necessary procedural steps may be dropped and the entire process of the acquisition of the zoning plan can be accelerated. With regard to the other fundamental change that came back from the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies, the second, in our view, the Ministry of Regional Development, is a key amendment that goes into territorial planning activity and is also linked to the amendment that was applied here in the Chamber of Deputies, which is moving the validity of old territorial plans until 2022. The Senate has adopted a further amendment to this amendment, which consists in the following: It is proposed that after 31. 12. 2020 has not been possible to make changes to these old territorial plans, which means that if the city is to update the territorial plan, it can only complete this change after 2020, but it can no longer propose new changes after 2020. I will now talk here about the key amendment adopted by the Senate. It concerns related laws related to the amendment to the Construction Act. The rules of procedure. An amendment was adopted to the amendment to the Administrative Code and is directly linked to the amendment approved by the Chamber of Deputies and concerns Section 4 of the Construction Act. By amending this provision adopted in the Chamber of Deputies, quite special rules have been introduced to review the binding opinions of the institutions concerned, which are issued for the purposes of proceedings under the Construction Act as such. Only a review under the appeal procedure was allowed on the ground of lawlessness, plus a limited period of one year from the date of its binding opinion. This adjustment constituted an indirect amendment to the administrative order. It was therefore a limitation of the possibility of correcting the lawlessness of binding opinions. In the case of binding opinions, an assessment of the environmental impact of the project, i.e. The EIA, according to the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment, which is the Gestor of the EIA Act, would significantly complicate the possibility of remedying an illegal situation and could lead to a non-compliance with the relevant Directive of the European Union, by Directive 2011/92/EU, according to which persons falling within the so-called "state' may be subject to discrimination. to challenge to the public concerned the substantive or procedural legality of any decisions, acts or omissions which are subject to the provisions on public participation contained in this Directive. The amendment adopted by the Senate of the Czech Republic releases this amendment, which was adopted here in the Chamber of Deputies, with the addition, instead, to § 149 of the Administrative Code, of the provisions which address this factual problem, i.e. This is not an indirect amendment to the administrative order, but a direct amendment to the administrative order, whereby the current amendment to the review of the binding opinion will therefore significantly prolong the whole authorisation process. These are the three key amendments that I considered important to mention. I would like to conclude by saying that both the two versions, both the Chambers and the Senate, will contribute to the improvement of construction in the Czech Republic, speed up territorial preparation, placement, construction authorisation and, of course, not only for large investors but also for small builders. I would also like to mention that at this time I, the Minister for Regional Development, on the basis of the opinion of the Minister of the Environment as co-president, am obliged to draw the Chamber of Deputies' attention to the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment on possible infringement of the directive, but, of course, the approval of the amendment to the Construction Act is in the hands of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u3	I thank the Minister. I'll read the apologies. Mr Karel Fiedler asks to apologize until the end of the day for reasons of work, Mrs Olga Havlová also until 19.00 because of the hearing, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes until 16.00 today and Mr Petr Adam apologises from 17.00 for personal reasons. I ask now whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Josef Uhlík, wishes to comment on the amendments tabled by the Senate? It's not like that. rapporteur to the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Pěnčíková? It's not like that. And the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr František Laudát? It's not like that. I am therefore opening the debate and will be the first to speak in the debate by Senator Jitka Seitlová. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u4	Hello, Mr Vice-President, honourable government officials. The proposal for an extensive amendment to the construction law and other related laws is presented with an effort to contribute to simplification in all stages of construction preparation and implementation, i.e. placement, authorisation and approval. The proposal for an amendment to the Construction Act - containing amendments to others at the same time, the Minister says 44, I think there may have been more, more laws - was given to the Senate of our Parliament not only for its scope and difficulties prior to discussion here by the Chamber of Deputies, but in particular as a code of building law which affects and affects the broad sphere of interests of citizens, transport and the economy of the Czech Republic. The Senate plenary dealt with the press on 7 June, after discussing three committees and one committee. The Constitutional Committee proposed to reject, the economic proposed to approve, the Guarantee Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment even after the suspended negotiations did not adopt a resolution, it was five to five votes, and the Rural Development Commission proposed to approve. So all you can see from this is that the negotiation of the bill was not easy in the Senate, and this continued with the Senate plenary. Only 21 senators supported the motion for approval from 62 senators. The motion to dismiss that fell from the constitutional committee was supported by 23 senators and the rest - i.e. 41 senators and some who voted in favour or consent, i.e. two thirds of the senators - supported the return of the proposal with the amendments that lie before you today. [[17,00 hours]] As has already been said by the Minister, the most important point adopted by the Senate is the release of special rules for the review of binding opinions. The review would only be possible under the appeal procedure within one year of the issue of the opinion, i.e. within a time limit which could not be used very often at all. The proposal would constitute a fundamental restriction on the protection of legality and public interest. At the same time, he denies the meaning of binding opinions and may burden him with lawlessness. The authorisation process would not only complicate itself, but it would in fact extend, which is contrary to the aim of the amendment proposal. As has also been said by the Minister, there is a concern that this could also be contrary to the directive of the European Union. We released this part in the Senate, but we replaced it. We have replaced it with a direct amendment to the Administrative Code, specifying exactly what the time limits for the review procedures are to be. And that is exactly what extended the administrative proceedings of construction, which we complained about, means that it is actually taking us a very long time to complete the construction procedure and the following review procedure. So we have adopted these amendments in the spirit and in order to correct that there is no lawlessness or doubt. Furthermore, we have adopted amendments concerning the territorial plans, once again, that is in the spirit of the objective, I think, of the Ministry of Regional Development, with the fact that it is not possible to adopt changes after 2020 that follow up on those old territorial plans that were issued before 2007. Furthermore, we also dealt with not only the area of construction law, but also the areas of some things that were in the regulation of the Energy Act or the Act on Line Buildings. I must say that the whole discussion was marked by the fact that the public debate, even here in the Chamber of Deputies, was particularly about the participation of NGOs. There have been amendments in the Senate to return the opportunity of NGOs to participate in the proceedings, but these amendments have not passed and are not part of the proposal that lies before you. This remains the text adopted by the Chamber of Deputies. However, the law changes completely the procedure for the approval and authorisation of buildings. To date from 1990 onwards, if ownership relationships are not resolved, it is not possible to issue a permit for construction, neither territorial consent nor notification. This law completely changes this situation, which has worked here for 25 years, and says: When an application is made, the consent of the owners must be given, but only consents, property rights may not be settled, according to the new § 184a, the consent of the owners and those who are neighbors of the owners. With one exception. The consents of those legally available to us do not have to be provided according to the purpose of the law. Well, that's understandable, too. But now the situation is that, with territorial consent, which is not a proceeding or an announcement, which is also not an administrative procedure, these owners will actually learn only after the decision to place the building, that something is to be realized there at all. So the Senate has come to the conclusion that it is correct for them to be informed. That is why there is an amendment that says that there should be an information obligation for those who will submit a request. They negotiate with others consents, they only inform these owners, not even by delivery. This is one of the amendments that is there in terms of building law. Then we adopted another amendment that could be the subject of debate, and that is that we have set the same conditions for the distribution system of electrical structures and gas distribution as for line constructions in the Linen Construction Act. This means a very accelerated process, very privileged conditions to be expropriated, but it was not balanced and it was unwarranted, so when it is expropriated for line construction, there is a claim for a certain price for the expropriation to be guaranteed. Not in the case of energy and distribution systems. Of course, the citizen or owner who owns the property gets into a very weakened position when the entire process takes place and almost everything is approved by the state. Therefore, the Senate leaned to the proposal and the view that it should be guaranteed at least a minimum price for expropriating it. I have to say, I've been discussing this with the representatives of the Cheps, and they said, "We're paying it anyway, we don't mind, we even give more." Well, that's just to fill in the information. That is what I wanted to do in particular. There are, of course, things that concern the legislative technical adaptations that we have found. There are, let's say, quite a lot of them, but we certainly didn't get all of them, either, because maybe there might still be one in the process of working with the law. In discussing the proposed substantive and process-intensive proposal of the amendment, the Senate was guided by an effort to make the scope of the proposed amendments particularly necessary in the light of the general principles of law and in line with the objectives of the proposed amendment. At the same time, it must be noted that the interpretations of the petitioner will be desirable for the quantity of proposed provisions and their correct application in practice. From the position of the Senate's guarantee rapporteur and the mandate of my presentation to discuss the draft amendment to the Building Act of the Senate, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to the amendment to the Act, as returned to the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u5	Ladies and gentlemen - thank you, Senator, and have a good afternoon. I'll read an apology. Today, from 17 to 19.30 for personal reasons, Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes. It will also be heard in the debate by Members who are duly enrolled in the debate. First, I will ask Mr Robin Böhnisch to speak, then Mr Jan Klán and the next in line. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, Senator, after the soccer game in Mexico, it is said: we played it best, but we lost as always. And to quote someone from politics, someone closer to us, I'd quote Viktor Stěpanovič Černomyrdin, who said, "We tried to do it best, but it turned out as always." I believe that the Ministry of Regional Development has been led by a godly effort and that its officials have done their utmost and highest quality work. Everything's fine from there. Trouble is, before the law went to the Senate, and before it got back to us, it went through such a process that it wasn't the original building bill that it was at the beginning. He was supposed to speed things up, ease things up. I am very convinced that this will not happen in the finals if we approve this law in this version. The senator reminded a whole series of matters dealt with by the Senate. After all, the debate lasted over eight hours. I had the opportunity to hear part of the debate because I waited in the Senate for my own speech to another law, and I would like to add that if one of you decides between the version of the House and the version of the Senate, I would like to recommend a version of the Senate to him. [[17.10 hours]] However, I would like to ask you to do another thing for me, not to vote for one version and wait for a new construction law, which could come in, for example, within two years and which would actually solve serious problems that accompany builders in the Czech Republic. What leads me to challenge you to reject both versions is a matter which has nothing to do with the original building law, a matter which has come into this amendment during the debate in the Chamber of Deputies, and that is a fundamental restriction on public rights. The government's programming statement to this coalition says that it will not restrict, reduce, by legislation given freedom and given rights to the public, and unfortunately this amendment is currently happening. Perhaps for some, the government's programming statement is not a very important document, of course, that cannot be taken away from anyone. I take this document seriously as I do the public's environmental rights, which is why I cannot shine on such a law this time. I was kind of hoping that when I saw the Minister, who had tuned the outfit very green today, and who was quite positive towards the Ministry of the Environment, that he would mention the problem of this law, it did not become enough, so I mention it, and I would like to ask you to wait for the new building bill and not support both versions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u7	Thank you, too. Mr. Jan Klán will now appear... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I note Mr Adamec's factual remark. Mr Klán will then be given the floor. Your two minutes. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, Mr Ministers, Madam Senator, I'm having a hard time hearing today! I'm really staring at what's been going on in this House lately. Does anyone want to say that the House version has been approved by opposition voices? I really don't know! We didn't vote for her, and the reasons were completely different. And to say that if we approve something here today that it's gonna end up like it always is, that's resignation. That's what Soviet politicians said, and they knew what they were talking about. But that being said by a member of the ruling party, I am very surprised. And I'll admit I have a different opinion about it. I think it is necessary to approve the construction law, although, of course, I can criticise it, I was the one who asked such a simple question by the Minister whether the construction preparation period would be on average shorter than the average length of that particular construction. I know it's not right now, but I believe it will be in the future. So it really fascinates me. I think that what happened here from the point of view of the rights of the public concerned, and let's say which, those professional bullies - I apologize for the word, but that's just it, it's not about citizens, it's just about a certain group of citizens - that's good. Of course it's a good thing. And we did not vote in favour of the law, and for the reason, I do not have any preliminary holding yet, but not in general, but simply linked to Parliament's decision-making in specific cases. But I believe that the next government will be serious about this and will resolve it. But otherwise, I personally did not support the bill at the moment, even though I did not support it and we did not support it in the House version of the first vote, so now we will support it in the House version. And please, all of you, do it and don't put... [[Attention on time.]] I thought the Green Party didn't have any deputies here. I was wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u9	Thank you. Mr Jan Klán, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Government, colleagues. Many have been said here. Of course, the KSČM MP will also support the House version, but here I have to ask about the mistake that has been revealed there in relation to the EU directive. Didn't the officials read it when this was discussed? Whether they were officials, I don't want to call the Ministry of Regional Development or the Ministry of the Environment. We're gonna have to sort this out a little bit, 'cause then these laws look weird. The Senate sometimes corrects them, sometimes even more messed up. I do not want to say here whether the Senate version or the House version is better, but I note that I will personally vote in favour of the House version. I am glad that there is some regulation in both versions of the public concerned. Because I know a lot of examples of different constructions stopping. Obligatory is just the level of sailing Přelouč - Pardubice, when in the first stage some conservationists chased beavers, in the second stage the beaver chased them, so I couldn't really know what was true, and in the final it turned out that there was neither. I know it wasn't exactly beaver, but I'm just saying this as an illustrative example. They may have been chasing a butterfly or something, but that's already substandard at this point, but they've been referring forever and ever. And I can't! There's no way they can appeal forever. That's why there's a certain type of regulation set up there. Of course, this is similar with the EIA, which is the assessment of the environmental impact of the construction. There is this instrument twice and enough, because otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we will do nothing in that republic! Something always stops, investments go to waste, and some of them, of course, will applaud because they've managed to stop it. On purpose, not because they had logical arguments and somehow supported it. Not that there was a pseudo problem, that the beaver was there, or that it wasn't, whether the beaver was chasing someone or they were chasing him. That's irrelevant now, but the logic of the matter is that some people do it right. Therefore, it is really necessary to set a certain type of regulation. I was here pointing out that in the 1990s, unfortunately, these non-governmental non-profit organizations, or whatever we call them, gave themselves unlimited power. And today, these specific subjects don't like that we're starting to set clear rules that they have to obey. That's the problem. And I'm gonna go back to that pre-holding institute. She's really missing here. It is missing both in the House version and in the Senate version. And I'm sorry the Senate didn't accept this preliminaries. But let's ask ourselves the second question, who did not accept preliminary possession here in the Chamber of Deputies? It was a social democracy! Let's face it here, too, who didn't support this place to speed up the construction of transport infrastructure or anything else. Those are the other things that need to be clearly named here, and they're here to tell each other what it all looks like. It has already been said that in the foreseeable two or three years a new construction law will come. Madam Secretary is pointing out to me that this isn't true, but it was the Madam Secretary who said it here when it was discussed. He's telling me, and he's showing it's gonna be in the next five years, so maybe it won't be necessary at all. It sometimes seems that when something is being amended or prepared for a long time, it will then be blamed on the EU in the finals that we will find some directive, such as the EIA directive, and then it will be pushed very quickly only. So I'd like to ask if we're going to discuss or prepare some new building law, so that it's done a little bit better. I do not mean that this building law was not well prepared or in any way discussed. He's been negotiating for quite a while. There were so many amendments to the Public Administration Committee that we hadn't seen it for a long time, and there was so much confusion in it, but in the end we were struggling with it in some way. The senator here spoke of public interest. This is also a binding word that is used quite often, public interest. But we don't have an exact definition of what public interest is. We can blame that on anything. In the public interest we have done this and that, but nowhere is exactly determined what the public interest itself is, how exactly to define it. I can wrap it up in anything else. I'll own it in the public interest. For example, when I say this phrase, it's quite often used. So what's public interest? Here I come up with the facts that, for example, Austria or Germany has a slightly different way of doing it, and I think we could take from them even in these cases that we could inspire ourselves from them. It'd be kind of worth considering, too. [[17.20 hours]] Of course, this right is a little different, but these instruments have a rather sophisticated design, so why not take an example from them in some way, because we have a historical connection with them. I've already said that in other laws, whether it was anti-smoking law or some other law, when I said: look at the experiences from the surrounding countries, because we have historical experience with them. Somehow we have historical ties with each other from the Austro-Hungarian Empire, as we developed together. So it's just worth considering again. I have already said about the problem that the European Union directive would be violated. So I'm going to ask what exactly we're in danger of if this directive is violated. I'll ask, I suppose, the Minister of the Environment. What are we at risk of violating that directive of the European Union? I'm very interested in it because it's always been good for something. We are simply at risk of halting the European Union's use of subsidies. Then they tell us: and they come here for inspection and forbid us something. Then they'll rush us to court, start some administrative proceedings and other things with us. I am really interested in exactly what we are in danger of breaking the directive of the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u11	Thank you, too. I'm recording two factual points. First of all, Mr Urban, then Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I think the public interest is that we have enough cheap and clean energy. Are you surprised to hear that from me? I think it is, it's public interest. But when someone says "A," they have to say "B." Do we want more renewables here? We want to, we've made a commitment. Do we want to diversify power generation or other sources here? Well, we do. That's A. But B is that the projects we agree on here require investment in other projects, i.e. distribution networks, high voltage networks, distribution networks, modernizations, smart management of these networks, etc. So when someone says A, in my opinion, they should be able to understand B. A B is that we allow the state, i.e. most of the state in terms of high voltage networks and from the point of view of distribution companies and other companies, to invest in the modernisation of energy to suit precisely the fact that we want to introduce renewable resources here, we want to diversify, we want local production etc. In my opinion, at least partly, not 100%, but at least partly, this is what the amendment to the construction law approved by the House. So who wants the modernisation of energy, in my opinion, is ready to support the House version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u13	Thank you. Mr Václav Zemek, Mr Jan Klán, is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u14	Thank you for the floor. I appreciate one half-truth that has been said here several times, namely the term used by my previous speaker - to appeal indefinitely. I don't understand, ladies and gentlemen. We have some kind of administrative code under which administrative offices are held, and it only allows one appeal. The appeal body shall then decide and no longer be able to appeal against its appeal. [[Decision]] So what kind of appeal endlessly? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Jan Klán now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u16	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to continue with my colleague Urban through you. I am the original education of electrical engineering, so I certainly want the modernisation of the energy infrastructure. I'm even in favour of building more nuclear resources, that's one of the clean energy. Of course, radioactive waste is produced or, in some way, there is a formal danger, some risk. It's a sociology theory - a risk society. Of course, there could be a crash, whether it was Chernobyl or Fukushima. But I'm referring here to the fact of the construction law - how long it will take to authorize only the construction of a new block, a nuclear block like the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant. How long is this gonna take? In the meantime, maybe they'll shut down all the currents here, or in some way before we allow it, or the local construction authority will allow the nuclear block to be built. By then, the VVR-type reactors will have a lifetime, because now, of course, they have an exception by 2030. Then they'll have a lifetime - and then what? What's going to happen? Are we going to catch the sun here? Of course, developments are moving forward, so maybe solar energy will go forward, or there will be some other type of energy. But really at this point, we really need to modernize the energy infrastructure. Unfortunately, the Senate version makes this a little impossible, because - I think it was Senator Seitlová, who even removed the amendment from the House version because it was an amendment, I think it was my colleague Snopek, and somehow it was discussed on the Economic Committee as well as on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and we found agreement there. For this reason too, I will vote in favour of the House version.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u17	Thank you. Mr Václav Zemek, now duly signed up, followed by Mr Petr Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow up on my colleague Klán, but that would probably be a long debate on energy, and maybe I would recommend him to look at the state energy concept that is currently being addressed. Well, that's probably the easiest thing to do, and we're not gonna be sticking around here today when we're dealing with an amendment to the construction law, virtually. her Senate and House version. I don't think anyone will be surprised that I won't vote for either of those options. Like I voted in the third vote in the Chamber of Deputies, I will not support either of these options now. There's a simple reason. I have worked in public administration for quite a long time, worked with the construction law, with the administrative order, with the law on conservation of nature and landscape, I came into contact with these laws. I've been expecting the novel to speed up in some way and simplify the process especially for small applicants. I think we can all agree, even with the Minister, that the construction law, as it works today, is not perfect and the construction processes, or the approval processes of the building management and the territorial management bring a number of complications. I see three areas like this here. Above all, it is the quality of project preparation. It is poor quality or not completely perfect public administration. And, of course, it's a rather complicated process, the authorisation itself. That's what I expected the novel to somehow simplify and change. Unfortunately, the way I read it, maybe I'm wrong, I don't know, but the way I read it, there's no significant simplification. Madam Secretary assured us that there would be a significant speed up of construction. I don't see that speeding up. If I compare it to, for example, the EIA amendment that we adopted here at the last meeting, the major large buildings are accelerating much more. Unfortunately, I don't see that at the construction bill. There's been a lot of opinions here, for example. A colleague of Böhnisch. I identify with them. What I see as the main negative in the amendment is that it's quite complicated the whole process, mixing some insane processes, such as the EIA with administrative proceedings. There is a fog or confusion of terms in the interpretation of what is a binding position, which can lead to significant extension of buildings, because what has now been dealt with in the administrative order will now be dealt with in judicial procedures that will be much longer than the administrative procedure. And so I could go on. But what I see as essential and what I do not agree with is a fatal restriction on public participation in the negotiation processes. You know, I'm a little fascinated by the fact that some colleagues from the right side of the spectrum often wander around and fight for civil rights, civil liberties, but when civil liberties are trampled on, they encourage their trampling. That is a contradiction, and it really amazes me. As I said, it is probably the most fundamental restriction on public participation in public events after November 1989. [[17.30 hours]] There may be different opinions. Of course, as has already been said here, there are, for example, associations that actually block constructions intentionally, which... something in the sense that they demand fire or demand some compensation, even such associations are. But from my practice, I know the vast majority of those who are decent. And it is these decent ones that will be voted out, and I think that's a mistake. We can't make things easier here. [[unintelligible]] That we close our mouths to the public, as they say, doesn't speed up anything, and, on the contrary, we contribute to breaking up democracy in our country. So I just can't vote for it. It's my personal opinion, it's not the opinion of the social democracy club, but I'm not going to vote for the amendment in either version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u19	Thank you, too. Mrs Langšádlová is registered with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask my colleague Zemk, through Mr President, not to paralyze. The TOP 09 will not support the construction law either in the parliamentary version or in the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u21	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Freedom. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to tell my colleague Zemek by your means that, from my rich experience with community policy at the level of the capital, with how one can or cannot build that civil rights are one beautiful thing and the other is the abuse of civil rights. It's not that we're against civil rights. Green for them. But what our countries display as civil rights is the interests of individuals or small, narrow groups that oppose everyone. And if we, as Members, do not realize this, then simply no construction, but no other law that wants to build something here will work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u23	Thank you. We will now continue with proper applications for the debate. Mr Petr Bendl will be the first to speak and Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u24	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I must say I'm a little astonished. I have to tell my colleagues in social democracy well, go after the blue team, because the contradictions that you're presenting here now could have been resolved and resolved. We, as the opposition, have been very constructive about the material on behalf of the building law, we have tried to be helpful and we have tried to support everything that we think has a chance for the future - we will see how it will work when the law applies, so if it applies at all - which has a chance to speed up construction in the Czech Republic, not only in the area of... [[Silence because of the noise in the O.R.]] Thank you for letting me talk. I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u25	Mr. Ambassador, continue your speech, I will arrange for you to remain calm in the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u26	Thank you. When discussing the law on the environmental impact of the construction, which significantly complicated construction in the Czech Republic and very much opened the rights of those not directly concerned by the construction, does not live in that place, has opened the right to enter the process, the Czech Republic has not been able to negotiate exemptions for a significant part of the constructions and in the Czech Republic it is not built. And there were arguments, and not only here, but also on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, that what we lose in the EIA negotiations will be obtained in a high-quality law, in a building law that will help the buildings to speed up as such, because it will bring together some proceedings, territorial proceedings, construction proceedings and EIA negotiations so that they do not have to address the same institutions with one opinion twice or three times, and thus the whole process has not been prolonged. Let's put our hands on our hearts, we know it's mainly about line construction. The Czech Republic does not build motorways, there are no significant buildings of this type in the Czech Republic essentially launched. Look at the drawing of European money. We're in the middle of the financial period, we've mentioned it here several times - it's basically not stopping. We do not have flexible legislation that would allow this to happen in a situation where, therefore, you have already voted in favour of this law as government Members, so now some of you are saying that they will not vote in favour because they do not like it. I've said here several times that since you've already passed the Environmental Impact Act, there must be a new building law, that it's very, I'll say, your responsibility. And we, as Ivan Adamec has already said here and perhaps someone before him to have the Czech Republic building law, are prepared to vote in favour of what you voted for as government MPs last time, which means for that version of the MP, with all the mistakes we know about. Unfortunately, I'm already a dinosaur with regard to politics, and I don't believe the building bill will be on the table for five years. He'll be much sooner, whether it appears in another law or there's a sticker. Experience is simply like this, and everyone who works in the Chamber of Deputies knows that this will be the case and that there will be a number of opportunities to repair it based on the experience it may have with it. We building law, I dare say, we need to compensate, at least in part, for what the EIA will do in the construction process. And we want to build. The Czech Republic needs this, and you know it. After all, you are now all campaigning and promising how it will be built and that it is by construction that environmental assistance is needed. However, what Mr Zemek said here through the President is not true at all. What's more public interest? Let me give you a specific example. Unhošť. You may know him because you are a Central Bohemia MP, through the President. The deputies all the way across the political spectrum, including the mayor, wanted a bypass. Is it public interest when the council and 90 percent of people living there say it's public interest? However, civil associations or their representatives have been tied to diggers there in the past and we have dealt with this as a huge problem, and now we have been there to discuss what is public interest. And I, to all those who behave seriously and truly defend the interests of not someone third in the background - because the problem when you talk to investors is that it really happens that someone is planted there, that they deliberately make the construction so expensive and basically blackmail, and that there is a need to find a compromise, and that is why seminars have been made, so it has been discussed in a long way so that we can find a solution. And we're ready to look for him. But now is not the time. We're at the end of the term. Before a new law comes up in three quarters of a year, and if you, the government MPs, still have a little bit of government responsibility in you, I say that as an opposition politician, then just get the job done. And it's not like all of a sudden one of you is gonna say let's just finish this thing and others are gonna say they don't like it. That's what I'm saying, you're going after blue, that it just suddenly suits someone before the election inside to campaign. But make it so that the Czech Republic has a law to build according to. With the gnashing of teeth, because I am also sorry that there are no line constructions, and just as my colleague Adamec presented it here, I think it was right that the entire parliamentary club perceives it that way, we are prepared to talk about the preliminary holding, but only in the buildings listed, because we are afraid of stencil abuse, but if there is a will to name what key transport structures the Czech Republic needs or other line constructions, energy and so on, then I think that is the way. Is that a priority? Is R35 a priority? Is the priority the completion of the Prague circuit? Is that a priority? Can we agree on that? Then I think we can find a compromise. At this point I would like to go ahead - although I did not vote in favour of the parliamentary version in the past, I helped with some amendments, so I believe that I am listening to you so much that the Czech Republic simply needs the law, and therefore I am prepared to vote in favour of the parliamentary version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u27	Thank you, too. I'm registering a series of factual remarks. Mr Ivan Adamec, Václav Zemek and others, will perform first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Senator, the government, maybe I do the civil rights thing. I actively support the construction of D11 in the Hradec Králové Region for years, and I have already experienced something about it. And now I've taken part in negotiations with the Polish side and the Slovák, by the way, on another occasion, and they've been kind of smiling at us about how bad we are about line construction, about the law. Because they already have the so-called preliminary holdings at this point. It is true that in Poland it is already under general agreement. In Slovakia they are still afraid of decisions of the Constitutional Court. But what I'd like to say is that without the preliminary holdings, where, of course, the hit on property rights is the biggest, we're not gonna build a single high-speed railroad. Those are completely different corridors. And you always talk about her as a hit. The railroad has always been part of a social democracy, and that's good. But we can't build it without this. I think we're talking about this, and I'm gonna ask myself a question. Are these the rights of particular owners, or are we talking about civil rights activists? I think there's a need to distinguish between that. And really say that the civil rights of landowners are the same as the civil rights of activists, so I don't think so. There's a big difference. Because activists don't usually fight for their own property. They would like to fit in with those human rights defenders, and they're fictitiously fighting for someone else's property. What do they care about my property or someone else's? What kind of law are they taking here anyway? I think this needs to be limited. This, and not the civil or property rights of specific owners. But on the other hand, we need line construction, whether it's railroads or motorways, and we really can't get around without the preliminaries, we can't build almost anything. Because it is indeed a very difficult law and without this we will not really meet international commitments, for example, with Poland or, on the other hand, with other neighbouring states. [[Time warning]] [[Your time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Václav Zemek, Mr Jan zahradník, will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u30	Thanks for the word, I'll be quick. I can tell from this debate that we don't have any construction laws here. But ladies and gentlemen, we have a construction law here, and we are building according to it. I'm not saying it's perfect, but it's a normal stop here. And if anyone says otherwise, it's nonsense. I just want to comment on how it was said here with the tying up to the diggers and all that. I'm not in favour of that kind of attitude. But we have a legal way here. There's an administrative procedure where the administrative authority can decide to appeal, and I certainly don't approve of any illegal procedures here. And another thing. There's been a series of EIA novels here. We have approved a significant acceleration of construction processes within the EIA. So please look at it, who doesn't understand it, and it's true. The amendment that has passed here - I think at the last meeting - significantly, unlike this amendment to the construction law, will speed up the large buildings that it concerns. And another comment on Mr. Bendl. He mentioned the date of the merger of the proceedings. That already exists today. This is in the existing construction law that you can merge the construction and territorial proceedings together. That's already there today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u31	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Zahradník. Minister Šlechtová will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u32	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, after all, I must return to the amendment to the EIA Act on Environmental Impact Assessment, which is mentioned here as a law that will speed up the construction process. Unfortunately, I'm afraid that won't be the case. We have seen, and it has been shown from the Ministry's data alone that the complaints that are filed in the EIA process - submissions made by each interested party - are generally filed by those environmental organisations that have a longer history. Citizens decided there was no point in protesting any construction in the EIA process, starting their own civic associations, but using the duha, the Children of Earth, Calla, the South Bohemia mother. Thus, such almost professional environmental associations, which will gladly take on the burden for them very pleasant to submit these complaints, these oppositions. And, of course, this gives these organizations, which actually have ideological conservation in their program, so-called nature conservation, to defend these structures, which they do not consider right. Yet, in some of its paragraphs, this building law has enabled the environmentalists to put an end to this impenetrable effort. So I think it's right to support the design of the building bill, which has already passed through the approval here in the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u33	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Minister Šlechtová, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u34	Mr President, Madam Senator, Madam House, I am going to make a few comments. New building law. I'm very glad I haven't released it yet, because otherwise we'd be leading this debate to something else entirely. Of course, as promised, the Ministry of Regional Development has completed its thesis. I'm gonna put them on the government as soon as it passes, or this amendment to the construction law doesn't go through. Otherwise, we wouldn't really be talking about anything else. So we're working on it. However, I estimate that time from my experience in preparing this amendment. And you have no idea how many people have their own interests, how many people have tried to influence me. Even, of course, you, despite your amendments. How many changemakers in the House and in the Senate we have already experienced in inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, where we received two and a half thousand comments. Basically, you have no idea, honourable Chamber of Deputies, how many things we have put together as the Ministry of Regional Development, which is rooftop and covered all the amendments. [[He speaks very quickly.]] As far as associations are concerned. I am very pleased that Mr Foldyna is present through Mr President. Basically, thanks to the amendment that was approved here across the political spectrum in this Chamber of Deputies, Mr Foldyna's and Mr Adámek's amendment, of the eight and a half hours that I spent in the Senate defending this amendment, I spent seven hours defending this amendment as well. As regards prior possession. Preliminary holding is, of course, one of the things where the Ministry of Regional Development had a negative attitude. Anyway, why? You know, the law, the amendment was clear from the beginning of this government. And in order for such an important instrument to get through the amendment, through the amendment law to the construction law, it was not discussed at all with anyone, it was not discussed with any Stakeholders. It is only a wish to be heard, of course, but a proper amendment, a substantive amendment to Act 416 on speeding up the construction of road, highway, energy networks. We have approved high-speed Internet at this point in time - I am done - so at this point in time, this law still needs to enrich itself with high-speed networks. I still want to say -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u35	Your time, Madam Secretary. I will ask you to join the debate again, if necessary, with a factual remark. The time taken for a factual remark shall apply equally to all. Now, Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Václav Zemek, will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u36	I still have to respond to my colleague Zemk through the President. There is no doubt that the Act on the impact of buildings on the environment will deteriorate and complicate construction in the Czech Republic. Worse and more complicated. There's no doubt about it. And in two years, we can sit over individual numbers. And the fact that we have a valid construction law... I thought it bothered us all that the Czech Republic is one of the worst countries if you consider the period of application for a building permit to issue a building permit. I thought we were bothered. This, on the contrary, seems to suit some Members of social democracy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u37	Thank you. Now, Mr Václav Zemek. Mr Stanjura will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u38	I'm going to respond to a fellow Zahradník. I wanted to reassure him -- through you, of course, of course, thank you -- that, of course, there is no need for a civil association to comment on this during the EIA process. [[President: By me, please.]] Anyone can express themselves there. This means that anyone can express themselves during the EIA process for projects that fall within the EIA process. But it's not an administrative process. And maybe that's the key thing. We're a little confused here in this debate about what governance is and what the EIA process is. These are two different processes and, of course, the rights of individual participants are completely different. [[17.50 hours]] Otherwise, I no longer wanted to respond to Mr Bendl through the President. Of course, I am in favour of some things speeding up. I think there's quite a consensus on how to go about speeding up construction. But it's not the way to silence the public. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u39	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Stanjura, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u40	I would like to respond to the Minister's speech and say a few words about the preliminary holding. We have to translate it into Czech. It means restricting property rights. I think we need to speak this openly. For us, I say yes, we can imagine, apply this principle, agree that it cannot be written either from opposition benches or as an amendment, I completely agree with that, because there is no more harm than good. But at the same time, I say that the proposal we voted on was too broad for us. We are inclined to introduce the institute into the law so that the constructions on which it can be applied are approved by law. Then it's clear. And then we'll cut back. And we can do three, four, maybe five key structures in the Czech Republic where the institute could apply. But two conditions must be met - firstly, it must be legislatively well prepared and secondly, it must be, or the list of buildings should be approved by law to pass through the lower and upper chambers. And I'm going to name at least two buildings that deserve it and where I don't think we're gonna be able to build them anytime soon without this institute. And that's the Prague Circuit and the D35. Both are important for the Czech Republic because they are key, we both need them. But it can't be in general terms, because the local, municipal or regional council can't decide on a publicly beneficial construction, not even the government. And I think it's a good model, and we're ready to participate in that model. But I warn you, and I think that's the right opinion, from the folk creativity, that we're going to quickly write it somewhere without a team of legislators and lawyers, and that it's going to be good. It won't be good. But perhaps we could say in these debates quite frankly: it is a restriction on property rights. And we can imagine that in justified units of cases it is possible. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u41	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Madam Senator, I would like to draw your attention briefly to something that has already been said here by both the Minister and the Senator, which, at first glance, concerned paragraph 4 of paragraph 9 to 11, which I think was the amendment of my colleague Bendl originally. At the same time, I will try to answer Mr Klán, because it is connected. I am not quite sure, but perhaps my colleague will confirm this to me whether it was intended when the amendment was tabled, when we had already discussed it in committees, we were opposed, then we were re-voted as the Ministry of the Environment, that its aim in principle de facto and de iure is that it makes it impossible to change or abolish an illegal binding position from official authority, if, say, for a longer period of time than a year after this binding position, in this case the binding opinion of the EIA is issued. I will translate this legal dry language into laity, or Czech, or human language and say in general: if anyone attacks or wishes to challenge any issued binding opinion of the EIA for more than one year after its publication, and this can only be done in the context of a territorial or building procedure, this will not be officially reviewed, in other words, the person who wishes to do so will be able to challenge this opinion only in a court of law. What's that gonna mean? If the court subsequently cancels this opinion, so because it will be illegal, the investor will actually have to continue, virtually. he won't be able to go on and he'll have to go back a few years. And I don't quite know if it was the target. Because it was actually there in one word, but only when we were even more concerned about it did it turn out that most of those opinions in the finals would, say, be after one year, because probably for a number of projects, especially the larger ones, it would not be possible that the zoning decision or building permit would be issued within one year of the issue of the opinion, the binding opinion of the EIA. And at this point, there's a problem, because what--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u43	I apologize, Minister, for entering into your speech, but I will ask the House of Honor to keep it down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u44	Thank you, Mr President. So at this point, I think there's a moment that the petitioner didn't even want. And maybe he'll say yes, but then I'd be surprised. So, on the contrary, this is a situation where, in my view, it is completely counterproductive, which means that, on the contrary, the investor's view may have extended the authorisation procedure by up to a few years. This proposal, I think, is very well addressed and healing the Senate version. And the infringement. It is true that, in addition to the fact that, in our view, this proposal is the one in paragraph 4 of paragraphs 9 to 11 that can be completely counterproductive in the finals from the investor's point of view, so we also have the opinion, and we have already said that there could probably be a breach of the relevant European directive, because it requires that a review be made there directly. He's allowed the judicial review, but the official review is, in principle, prevented by the conflict of deadlines. Well, what could happen? It's the same everywhere. We've already talked about this here. It is in this case that the EIA, because you know that we have also amended significantly the EIA law and we will simply put it in the European Commission when it passes the Senate, will be signed by the President, and it is really relaxing and I think very important for some intentions - and they will be thousands - simplifying, so of course the amendment to the Building Act will be judged, because it concerns the EIA. And if the European Commission did not like it, we failed to explain it satisfactorily, so there is a risk not only of standard punishment, which would, of course, be only in the case of the conviction of the Czech Republic, but unfortunately, in this case, there would very likely be a threat of what we were relatively close to in the previous years, I would say that we were close to it for days, that is to say the renewal of the infringement process and the issuance of a so-called reasoned opinion and the possibility of stopping financing projects from European funds linked to the EIA, including those transport projects. Again, I don't mean to scare you, the danger is here, but I wanted to mention on purpose that, in my opinion, there is a greater risk of this going against the investors. That's why I'm gonna support the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u45	Thank you, too, Minister. I note two factual points, first Mr Bendl, after which Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u46	Thank you for the floor. Only in response to the Minister. Well, the lawsuit could still happen today. Even in the situation that this blocking will not be there, at the moment when the EIA decision is as if being imposed, there will be some agreement and she cannot change. There may be a judicial review and a judicial appeal. But what was meant to be is settled. But it's not possible to modify and modify and modify every three months and endlessly go because the change has become that the EIA is binding. It used to be a recommendation, now it's binding on the investor. Therefore, it is necessary to say enough at some point, a fat line, so that the investor knows at all what awaits him, that I will not be throwing him over years of debate, and then there will be a lawsuit after all. We cannot prevent this litigation because we live in a democratic country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u47	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u48	Here we go. I said it at the last point. Infringement. I don't want to scare you, but look out, we're in danger. Well, the minister is haunting us. That's all he says. And, Minister, if it turns out as we wish, that is. According to the House's version, it's your job to keep the threat a false threat... We keep saying bad Brusel. But we are members of the European Union, aren't we? We're capable of defending something there, aren't we? Or do we just go there to observe and obey orders that we follow? I hope that's not true. The interpretation you gave here, and the example you described what we're at risk for, it seems completely absurd to me. Totally absurd! Do we want to accept that such absurd interpretation will be normal? And someone's gonna stop us from getting European money for that? There won't be any more in a minute anyway, so I hope we stop haunting each other. Remember how you saved those hundreds of billions, you've said many times here on the microphone. And again, the next government will be saving your unspent money. It could be over by now, and we wouldn't have to worry about it all the time. It's a threat. It's a threat. It's a I've read that we're in danger of stopping money because of this excellent MMR public procurement tool. Madam Secretary is blaming our government. In the second sentence, the Government's resolution is dated 2014. That's a year away, Madam Secretary, I'm sorry. [[Secretary off the bench.]] But I read this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u49	Madam Secretary, don't yell at the MP. If so, sign up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u50	I took it. It's okay. It's okay. I'm just here for the record. So let's see if these suggestions are for the benefit of the cause. I'm gonna repeat what I said today at the Grémium. We didn't vote for the bill in the House, for many reasons, I won't repeat it. However, today we have only three options: there will be nothing, there will be a Senate version or a House. Of the three options for our club, it is best to support the House version - despite all our reservations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u51	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Klán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u52	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to respond a little bit to the speaker and the minister. We're really scared of something here. All the time. Once we say the European Commission, the European Union wants it. And sometimes it seems to me - but it doesn't seem like it, it's true that we're often more papal here than the pope in some things. When we are here on something like Parliament, the Chamber of Deputies, then the Senate, etc., we make a decision, we say it, so it's too powerful then it's going to go to Brussels and it has to defend it in some way. But we are still scaring ourselves here that the European Union will order us to do so. It will, and you will listen to the European Union. Then don't be surprised that the citizens of the Czech Republic have some sort of mistrust of the European Union, which is more the bureaucratic apparatus in the final, which commands something from somewhere in Brussels, from Strasbourg. He wants to order us something from somewhere, and that's what you're gonna do. And we're gonna get even harder. We are going to get even harder because - I do not know if it is in our nature, but we, in order to perhaps please the European Union, will do it even harder to set an example. In the finals, it turns out that the European Union will say, but we didn't mean it that way, you have to be so hard, it's already proven in some laws that it turned out well, but it was actually a little bit less softer, and that sort of thing. So I'm saying we're scared here. We are really scared here - and I agree with Mr Stanjura through the President. We're really just scared all the time. If we are haunted by the European Union indefinitely, and it likes to be done that it haunts the European Union quite often, as I have already said in my contribution here, it will be wrong. It's just that when we decide on something here, we say it, we have to stand by it anyway, and we have to defend it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u53	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 18.15 to the end of the meeting for personal reasons, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes and from 6 pm for health reasons, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes. We will now proceed to the duly signed up for the debate. Mr Petr Bendl will be the first to speak and Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. [[The noise in the hall, at the table of stenographers is not understood.]] Okay, in that case, Mr. Mr. Kolovratník. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u54	Good evening, colleagues, thank you for the floor. That's the advantage of proper applications. Whoever logged in properly will wait and eventually see. But at least it's not limited by those two minutes. I'll split my performance in two. In the first one, I want to appeal to remember what is actually the merit of this point, the amendment to the construction law. And here I want to support Minister Šlechtová and put in a good word for her. She's said it a thousand times at press conferences and seminars here in the House and in the Senate. The law is primarily for builders, so for the small ones - coincidentally I'm fixing the fence now and building the pool, so I'm sad that the law isn't in effect yet. It concerns family houses, it concerns small, medium and large developers, the plan for merged management, whether territorial management, EIA, or building permit. That's the merit of the law. And I mean, me and my fellow ministers, who I really want to thank, really worked on it - I don't want to say that hundreds, but maybe hundreds of hours of mutual debate with the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry. And maybe I can warm up a little bit of traffic soup for myself, virtually. The Department of Transport, which was also in the debate. And the ODS colleagues are now expressing their views on the preliminary holdings and on other issues that are part of this proposal. The truth is what the Minister said that, in theory, we could also deal with transport matters separately, especially in other laws, but it is probably not worth going back to at this point. We have today's date, it's what it is, and the debate is like this. And now in the second part of my speech, my argument, I'm going to talk about transport and the view of the transport sector and the construction industry. I have to say, I'm glad it turned out the way it did. And maybe I'd use that Czech proverb - a sparrow in the hand versus a pigeon on the roof. We managed to negotiate, vote for a lot of good and small improvements for transport. And I'm warning you, both here in the House and with colleagues in the Senate. I can point out at random that we have managed to adjust the possible challenge of a decision in an administrative court, an action where a new decision will have to be made by the court on all points of the action, i.e. There's only one unsolved part that can't be hacked back. We were able to negotiate precisely in the EIA Act that compensatory measures for those large infrastructure projects can be implemented gradually, continuously. I'm sure you'll remember that we finally managed to negotiate with the Justice Department that any litigation on expropriation compensation will be handled by a specialized senate, and it will be the Senate in Ostrava. On the other hand, I say for myself that there are a lot of good things that unfortunately failed to negotiate. I respect that, it was some kind of political agreement or political will, the art at that moment possible. And it's not just a preliminary hold. It is also the proposed introduction of the abolition of the suspensory effect of the expropriation action. It is the introduction of an obligation to endure research work on the land. It is a refinement and determination of the time limit for the execution of translations, etc. etc. And it is also necessary to move those expropriation disputes from small municipalities with extended scope to regional authorities, where we think that the specialization is simply better and bigger. And here I am with colleagues from the ODS, specifically Petr Bendl, where I sometimes have various argumentation battles in the media. And I want to thank him, and I'm glad we agree tonight. Today, our view of things is quite similar. I have very carefully seen President Stanjura's argument about the preliminary holding. I say for myself - and now, please, it's not my election or political agony at this time. I am prepared for what I have listed, what I perceive has failed to discuss, I am prepared - and I take with humility all the surveys and estimates of preferences - if I have the opportunity after the election, immediately to start discussing these matters and initiate their entry into the legislative process. And for example the inspiration of German legislation, when the Němec actually have an exact list of buildings in the Bundestag, which fall under the special regime, and therefore have a slightly different speed of discussion, a different way of discussing and being voted by the Bundestag, that is, for me, the expression of democracy. [[18.10 hours]] And now I answer to Senator Seitlová. That's the will of the people, of all the citizens. Because I remind you, and let us not forget, we are parliamentary democracies. We Members are elected by the will of citizens and by voting in elections, and you senators are elected in the same way. That is, if both chambers, and I am already a little theorizing, agree to Parliament and vote some construction, that it is in the public interest and that, in some cases, as exactly described by Mr Stanjura, we will reach out and limit someone's property rights, so if both chambers of Parliament agree, I answer that I do not know who more and what greater democratic force should make this decision. Finally, I have an example in particular which may also answer Mr Zemk's questions. From my region already mentioned planned road D35. She has to lead about two or three kilometers from my residence, next to Pardubice is the town of Sezemice, has some three thousand inhabitants, through Sezemice today leads in quotation marks old 1/35. Half a village in exactly half, there is a kindergarten, a school, a church, a retirement home and a shop on the side of the road. The whole city must cross this road, now we have for two months - I will not burden you with the details - between the Basque and Holice closing the old 35-year-old. It's frying the surface. And all the truck traffic, perhaps from more than half the Republic, passes through this village. And there's no other way. There's no other route. At the top, it's 100 to 150 trucks in one hour. The citizens have added it up. I ask those who want to defend human rights: Is this how you defend the rights of citizens in villages, which in detours pass hundreds of trucks under the windows next to school and next to kindergarten? Please, co-workers and co-workers, we don't want this. The highway should have been built by now. And I believe that the very provision that is in the law - I apologise to the Minister that it is still about transport - has appeared and which we may be able to negotiate further in the future - can help this. I'm gonna cut my act short. I don't know if it's the Senate or the House version. I may be quoting the words of Minister Ťok, who informed us today at our club of the YES movement. From the point of view of the transport department, both versions are in principle possible. But I discovered for myself one more thing that wasn't mentioned here. Senator Seitlová has proposed buying-in at least eight times the estimated price for the energy infrastructure. I don't know if you've noticed, colleagues and colleagues, but we work eight times as hard as we do in transport in the 416 Act, but that's the best we can do. We're going to be multiplying by eight. Attention, senator at the energy infrastructure says it's supposed to be at least eight. That's a very important detail for me that disqualifies the Senate proposal in my eyes. For my part, for my position, I am now leaning towards the opinion and recommendations of colleagues from the ODS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u55	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. Are you reporting for a debate, Senator? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u56	honourable Members, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the Government, Mr President -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u57	I apologize for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues or colleagues, if you have something important to deal with, so go to the lobby to deal with these matters. Please keep it quiet in the hall. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u58	The debate that has taken place concerned, in particular, issues relating to public participation. In the Senate, this debate was between six and eight hours, as the Minister said. I think there are three options ahead of us at this point. I am here to represent, in particular, the Senate's position. That is why I am not going back to the debate, just to remind you that even in the Senate, there has been a motion to reject it. But he did not get the full majority, so there was also information about whether it was possible to discuss whether the law would actually meet the expectations, whether it would actually help to build, if, contrary, as I read in the newspaper, that the association of transport buildings, where its chairman says it would not help, because they would not use joint proceedings in particular because they would already be in trouble in entering joint proceedings. That's really not what I want to talk to you about today. You know, there's been a lot of talk here about preliminary holdings. Preliminary holding really in the Senate has been presented and is a great wish. I also understand the opinion expressed here that it can only be for some construction. But what was presented in the Senate could not be approved anymore because it did not meet the basic conditions for not being attacked at all by the Constitutional Court and for balanced protection of, of course, the construction to be realized, good, but the limitation of ownership, which is necessary, did not solve what was presented in the Senate, how it will be replaced financially, and this is said by the Constitution, the limitation of ownership at the time of the prior possession. That wasn't solved. It has not been addressed how the lease law which continues to be in the case of prior possession is to be dealt with. There were a number of these questions that we opened up in the Senate, and we said that this really cannot be approved for the preliminary holding. I believe that in the future really will succeed for the buildings listed, that is clear. But there must be a balanced protection of the rights of owners and restrictions only if necessary. [[There's still noise in the room.]] I know there is now a rich debate on the right of me, but right now I want to comment on what has been discussed here by Mr Adamec. He spoke very nicely about the rights of the owners. And the rights of the owners who, I know, have always defended the right, in this very law, which lies before you in the proposal, are not sufficiently protected. Because they won't even know that they're in the process of running an electrical distribution system or a gas system on their property. I don't think it was the intention of the petitioner, but it just did. A The Senate is trying to make this thing right. I just want to say that, as far as the Senate amendments are concerned, these relate in particular to small and medium-sized landowners. These are farmers, farmers, people with gardens, cottages. They don't need to know under the law that they're supposed to be running some distribution facilities, some lines. And I think that's a big mistake. This is corrected by what we are presenting to you as Senate amendments. Mr Kolovratník spoke nicely about line constructions and I understand that. He says yes, at this point in time, the Senate's amendment says that for those where there will be an energy distribution system or a gas distribution system, they must be guaranteed to receive at least eight times or 1.15 times as long as there is construction, as is the case with line construction. This means that it is a guarantee of a state that gives great competence, and now not only to state or semi-State enterprises, but also to multinational companies that can use the expropriation process in this case and which are in a very strengthened position against the owner. And we're just protecting, and most of the Senate leaned on it, landowners, so they'd have guaranteed this minimum price. That doesn't mean they're supposed to get more. On the contrary, in the negotiations that I had with ČEPS, they said that they sometimes wanted to give more. No one's gonna stop them from making a deal. The state just wants to guarantee it by law, the Senate proposes it, and it is up to you to consider, if you will accept that, as with other line constructions, they have the right to this amount of purchase price, where, of course, the purchase is unwanted on their part. I think that's a comparison of rights. That's nothing more. Well, that's the explanation of the proposal, just like we're presenting it. [[18.20 hours]] I would like to thank the Minister, who says yes when it comes to the proposal tabled by the Senate. I think he's solvable and he can be an asset. It eliminates the lack that we are really struggling with. And this is not just about European law and some infringement. It's really not about that. This is about the fact that when a binding position is issued that is illegal, we can still remove this lawlessness within the administrative process. If the amendment that we and the Minister lobby for is not adopted, that means that it always gets into that dispute of law, and then the whole thing falls apart. And that's very, very bad for the investor. That's worse than the current situation. It is not really a matter of how it was argued here that Europe is telling us something. It's not about Europe. This is about us, about our investments, and about preventing real investors from getting into trouble. At this point, I think that's what was important to say about the Senate bill. Again, I say, please, as I was assigned, to approve the Senate version. It certainly eliminates the shortcomings to landowners at least as much as possible and certainly also eliminates shortcomings which are of a serious legal nature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u59	Thank you, too, Senator. Mr Petr Bendl is still reporting with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u60	Thank you for the floor. I don't think we need to scare these people like that. Which one of you ever discussed the zoning plan? All line constructions, all changes, all changes in purpose and so on individual areas and places and so are discussed with owners. It's a long-term process. The embassies are discussing it. They're calling on these people. So it's not true that somebody has a road at the same time or a line structure without having a chance to know. A general decree and all that... All those... In addition, at the moment when anyone is planning anything there, they have to contact the owner, they have to agree with him, they have to negotiate a lease with him, etc. etc. Now I'm going to personally graduate because CEZ is building a network in our village and they're going over my sidewalk, so I know what it's like. There's no way they're gonna miss you like this. Don't scare these people like that. You really can't do anything about it. Let's talk about what we can do better than what we can do to complicate their lives. And it's not true they won't know. Everyone has a chance. And it's a spatial planning system. And after all, we've been discussing around him for a long time how important this document is. And that's where everyone can debate. Even those who can't, as you say here, at the moment of the construction. It's too late because it's in the zoning plan, it's defined, it's said where the community property is going and what it is and what it's related to. Let's get everyone in there. Everyone has a right there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u61	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read an apology. From 18.15 a.m. to the end of the day due to urgent work obligations within the Ministry of the Interior, Minister Milan chovanec apologizes. Another point of fact is made by Mr Chalupa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u62	Thanks for the word. I don't want to look like a Pytlík beetle, but for seven years I worked as a project manager for a construction company, and I know that it took three to four years to approve a project for a zoning decision. So as if we're gonna make up extra things here, this country really isn't going anywhere. So I join in with what Mr Bendl here said through you. He's right, because if we really want to do something about this country, the building bill offers us the opportunity to really move. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u63	Thank you. So I'm asking if anyone's checking in. Madam senator. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u64	Mr President, honourable representatives of the Government, Members of Parliament, I apologise for speaking out, but it is so that my previous speaker spoke about how the territorial proceedings have been so far. He's right. That's how it went down. If you want to build any line construction or any other construction today, then you really have to deal with the owner, the ownership relationship must be settled. Each line construction is indeed burdened by the fact that each owner must therefore receive information unless, of course, delivery fiction and you have to deal with it. We understand that this is really very, very complicated and lengthy. On the other hand, this bill says that if we want to build a construction that may be expropriated, I do not have to deal with anyone like that. Not at all. So I'm going from wall to wall. Mr Bendl is right, who says that this is in the principles of territorial development. Please, there aren't all the buildings, that's the first thing. And the other thing that is. I'm sure you're in your constituency a lot. Ask people which of these people is able to actually monitor what is in the principles of territorial development. The tiny owners don't have it in them. Those big developers might. But the middle owners who have the cabins, the houses, they really aren't able to track it. [[The noise in the hall is rising.]] And I will say, just out of respect and out of the fact that the owner has some rights that we guarantee by the Constitution, we should at least maintain the information obligation. And that's the minimum that's being proposed by the Senate at the moment -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u65	I'm sorry, Senator, I'm sorry to bring you into your conversation, but the level of noise in the room is very high. Of course I don't want to interrupt you. [[The senator sat back on the news table.]] Feel free to finish your speech. But I ask the honourable House to discuss this law calmly. [[Senator from her place: Thank you for your attention.]] I'm recording two factual points. First Mr Zemánek, next Mr Bendl. [[Member Zemánek withdraws his point of order.]] Okay. In that case, Mr Bendl shall make a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u66	I have to respond to what the senator says because she's just wrong. I was an employee at one time even of the city office and I had a zoning plan in charge of that time here with the minister, a member of the ODS at the time. [[♪ Brabce ♪]] We discussed the town plan Kladno. And he knows very well also many of you who sit in the municipal benches and discuss the zoning plan that you pursue, go around the various neighborhoods or municipalities that fall or are not central and belong somewhere else - those people meet in pubs and various ways, so as to define everything about their property, which buildings. It's not true that something that a citizen doesn't have a chance to know might stand up there. He is called upon to do so several times. So please, Senator, don't say that. It's not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u67	Thank you. I don't see any applications. I ask whether this is the case or whether anyone is applying. I don't see an application. In that case, I am ending the debate and registering the application for the final word of the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u68	Mr President, dear Chamber of Deputies, I think this exercise with the amendment to the Construction Act has shown us all that the Czech Republic really needs a change in the construction law system in the Czech Republic. That is why the Ministry of Regional Development is preparing a new building law and, at the same time, a new law on expropriation. I want to thank you. I would like to thank every Member and every Member, whether you have voted or not voted in favour of this law at last reading, at third reading, or you will be today, because many of you have helped me to bring this law here. And the amendment to the construction law was basically the hardest thing for me personally at the Ministry of Regional Development. Forty-four amendment laws, all resorts, many lobbyists. And let me now apologise to all of you through Mr President, with great humility and respect to thank my team at the Ministry of Regional Development, because it is the team that spent thousands of hours preparing this amendment. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-003-003.u69	Good afternoon or early evening. I thank the Minister for her final word. I'm asking the rapporteurs if they're interested in final words. If this is not the case, we can proceed with the resolution. First, we will vote on the Senate proposal. According to Article 97 (3) of the EC Treaty, the Commission considers that it is necessary to assess whether the measure constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 4 The Rules of Procedure of our Chamber of Deputies to adopt the Senate resolution requires an absolute majority of Members present. Kvorum is set correctly. The motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the draft law amending Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on zoning and building rules, as amended, and other related laws, according to House press 927/7, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 927/8." [[Construction law]] I'll check you all out. I'll ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I will run the gong so that those who are interested in voting can come, and as soon as the number of entries is settled, I will begin voting number 35. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 35. Of the present 143 for 17, against 54. The motion was not accepted. Therefore, we will proceed in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 and the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members is needed for the adoption of the resolution. Kvorum is set. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Territorial Planning and Building Regulations, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in which the Senate was referred, according to House Press 927/7.' [[Construction law]] I've started voting number 36 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 36. Of the 146 present for 117, versus 7. [[Applause and screams.]] The motion was accepted. Congratulations to the Minister, thank you to the Senator, thank you to the rapporteurs and I am ending this point in our negotiations. We will continue according to the approved agenda of the meeting, which has already been distributed to you on the bench, point
