ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 373/2011 Coll., on specific health services, as amended, and some other laws /house print 874/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, Mr Miloslav Ludvík, the Minister of Health, will present the draft bill. Minister, please, you have the floor. I also ask Mr Havíř's rapporteur to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me now mention the government bill under discussion amending the Act on specific health services and some other laws. The preparation of the amendment to the laws on specific health services was mainly based on the knowledge gained from the practice of its more than three years application. This process has also taken into account the conclusions of the project, which was called the Cooperation of Employers and Employees in the Application of New Labour Legislation, which were adopted at the 120th plenary meeting of the Economic and Social Agreement Council on 27 July 2015. The proposed core adjustments consist in particular of the regulation of assessment care, including the occupational services and the assessment and recognition of occupational diseases, taking into account the relevant conclusions of the project already mentioned. The proposed changes in assessment and occupational health services will contribute to simplifying the procedure for issuing medical opinions, reducing administrative and economic burdens for the persons considered, employees, job applicants and employers, as well as for health service providers. Other substantive changes consist in the modification of castrations and genetic examinations. Castration will be possible under legal conditions for the person concerned at the age of 21, while it is also possible to undergo castration in particularly justified cases to a patient who has not yet committed a violently motivated sexual offence. The proposed modifications to genetic tests reflect developments that have occurred in recent years in the field of clinical genetics. On the basis of the clarification of the legal regulation of the conditions for carrying out genetic examinations, unidentified genetic laboratory tests will not be carried out in practice, and providers who have newly obtained authorisation to provide health services in the relevant field will be able to carry out genetic laboratory examinations under the newly defined conditions and thus obtain the conditions and documentation for granting accreditation. Partial adjustments are also made in the provisions of the Act defining sterilization, medical exposure and protective treatment. The provisions in question are specified in relation to the Civil Code. The expertise of health professionals eligible for appropriate health performances shall also be specified. In the case of medical exposure, the implementation of certain articles of the EU Council Directive 2013/59/Euratom, which is largely transposed by a new nuclear law, is being implemented. Some provisions of the Act are further clarified in order to eliminate application uncertainties. The proposed change will benefit, in particular, patients who are not excessively exposed to medical exposure. On the basis of the amendment of the provisions on protective treatment, it will be possible to perform constitutional protective treatment during the execution of the prison sentence in the form of stationary care. Furthermore, health care providers who provide protective treatment will be ordered to report to the Police of the Czech Republic that the patient has not entered protective treatment, that the patient has withdrawn from the medical facility, contrary to the conditions of the prescribed protective constitutional treatment, and that the patient does not show up for medical examinations in case of outpatient protection treatment at the specified time. This adjustment was made in an attempt to reduce the risks of danger to society by dangerous patients, because it is only within the scope and competence of the Police of the Czech Republic to secure the refugee patient or to initiate criminal proceedings for the offence of obstruction of the execution of official decisions. Following the above amendments to the Act on specific health services, or in connection with them, a partial amendment to the Act on the Protection of Public Health shall also be implemented following the labour services, in particular the Labour Code, i.e. the amendment of the Labour Code to specify the entry medical examinations and the assessment of the fitness for night work, as well as the amendment of the Act on administrative fees and the Act on the Social Protection of Children. I am pleased to note that the Government's bill was discussed by the Health Guarantee Committee, which recommended that the bill be approved. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I hope that the Government's bill, which means the practice of specifying the provision of health services in the areas governed by the Act on specific health services, will be specified. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee. The committee resolution was delivered as press 874/1, and I am asking the rapporteur of the committee responsible, Mr Havíř, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and, if necessary, to justify the amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, the Health Committee with House Press 874, which amends Act No. 373/2011 Coll., on Specific Health Services, as amended, and some other laws, dealt with at its 40th meeting on 21 September 2016. In the course of this discussion, he adopted the following resolution. Following the opening words of doktor Radek Policar, Deputy Minister of Health for Legislation and Law, and doktor Pavel Antonín's intelligence report, the Committee on Health recommends first of all to the Chamber of Deputies to agree with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 373/2011 Coll., on specific health services, as amended, and some other laws, Parliament's Press 874. In paragraph two, the rapporteur of the Committee empowers doktor Pavel Antonín to present the opinion of the Committee to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. So much for the resolution and in a detailed debate, I will then sign up for some amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I'm gonna ask the Home Secretary if he's applying for a factual remark. That was a mistake. Mr Vyzula, Mr Vyzula. Mr Farský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let me use the second reading to offer you two topics for the next debate, event. the debate in this section, which I would like to sign up for later in the detailed debate on the amendments. The first issue concerns the amendment to the part of the press 874 containing the amendment to the Public Health Act. This is a brief proposal which brings with it several fundamental but mainly positive changes. The amendment to the Public Health Act proposes to supplement the transposition of the Council Directive on the quality of drinking water intended for human needs, which must be transposed by 27 October of this year. This would not be possible in a proper legislative process. What is more important than simply fulfilling the transposition term, i.e. fulfillment of often unpopular so-called. The Brussels requirement is that, in this case, the changes in this area are clearly positive for our citizens. The aim of the proposal is to continuously ensure the production of safe drinking water and to eliminate or significantly reduce the risks to health of people supplied with drinking water. Water operators will need to develop monitoring programmes to ensure the quality of drinking water and to continuously assess, evaluate and eliminate emerging risks. Moreover, since monitoring programmes are uniting, the cost of monitoring drinking water quality will be reduced compared to the current state. I would point out that there will be no increased burden on the public water operator. [[11.20 hours]] Furthermore, in the context of risk assessment, which together with monitoring programmes will be part of the operating orders of public water operators that will be approved by the public health authority, the system for checking the quality of drinking water will be rationalised and improved. The result will therefore be greater quality assurance of drinking water within the water infrastructure, thus protecting the health of our inhabitants. Moreover, this objective will be achieved by not giving any reason to increase the costs of water operators and thus to increase the price of drinking water. That would be the first part. And I'd like to open up a debate on the second area, which is very simple. Since it took place at the Ministry of Health on the basis of § 5 para. 2 of Act No. 219/2000 Coll., on the property of the Czech Republic and its appearance in legal relations, as amended... the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic issued measures on the abolition of the organizational component of the state, which cancels the organizational component of the state, called. Coordination centre for health information systems. This change must also be reflected in the transplant law, which currently establishes the KSRZIS competence to perform certain activities. All activities of the KSRZIS defined by the transplant law will therefore be carried out by the IHIS, i.e. Institute of Health Information and Statistics, which is under Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and conditions for their provision, as amended, by the administrator of the National Health Information System. Therefore, it is necessary to replace the IHIS in the relevant provisions of the KSRZIS transplant law. That's all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u7	Please Mr Farský and Mrs Chalánková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the amendments I have tabled to this press. These are amendments, which we have discussed historically and historically, but which unfortunately have not yet been fulfilled. One is even the promise of the Ministry of Health, but since it wouldn't have been possible to make it before the elections, I took the liberty of proposing it myself. This concerns the responsibility of the State for the negative consequences of vaccination. It is a promise that has long been from the government. Everyone admits that vaccination should be compulsory. It's okay, but it doesn't make any sense that if there are any negative consequences, the disability is in a very difficult situation. Imagine the situation of those families, these cases are more than 600 a year, when their child happens to have a lot, a lot, a negative reaction, and they are expected to bear the burden of proof that this family will prove that a doctor has made a mistake or is a problem in the vaccine, or there is a problem somewhere else. It usually ends in development, because the evidence is very difficult to produce, and of course the position of those affected is difficult at that moment. Perhaps every parent can imagine that at that moment primarily solves the health of his child and the problems created and associated with it than the person responsible and where he will have a replacement. And it is a matter which is not special in the legal order of European countries. Even in countries where vaccination is on a voluntary basis, even there, the state takes responsibility for the negative consequences of vaccination, because it also wants to show that the vaccination is beneficial for society and wants everyone to be vaccinated. And if there are negative consequences, he's ready to help them and somehow help cope with those who have suffered the negative consequences. I therefore propose what has already been promised several times in the House plenary in the framework of the interpelations, or last July, or at the end of June, at the beginning of July, on the vaccination working group, where it was said that a proposal will be made for the State to assume responsibility for the negative consequences of vaccination by the end of 2016. It's the end of February. It hasn't happened yet. And I, although I have asked the responsible authorities to submit to me, at least in what version of the legislation they are currently in, so I have been rejected, and so I have no choice but to return to the proposal that was made here two years ago, to adjust it slightly and to present it here. This is therefore an amendment which says that if the damage is not negligible, then the State bears an objective responsibility. That means the evidence isn't gonna be on the victim, or on the other hand. his legal representatives to prove where the causal link is, but the State will bear an objective responsibility until he gets rid of that responsibility by proving that the consequence is for some other reason. I think it has a position in every decent democratic rule of law. It's justified. I even think that it can increase confidence in the vaccination itself when the state takes on this responsibility, and that it's such a totalitarian relic in our legal order that says, "Citizen, do, you have to, and if you have to, in some way, harm you, then worry. In this case, I don't think the state can act as the superior one again, the dictator, the one who just imposes duties, but doesn't claim responsibility. This is the first amendment which, I firmly believe, will also go through in view of the previous promises that have been made in this matter, and because I hope that there is no other reason for not being tabled to this day than that the Ministry has not yet made it. So with this help, I hope that this solution will accelerate, and this debt, which the government is pushing forward, will be corrected. The other two amendments, 5859 and 5860, to which I will still sign up in the detailed debate, concern health certificates. Again, it is a promise that was made during the negotiation of the amendment to Act No. 258/2000 Sb., when it was printing 270. They were repeated in each interpellation and again it is an unfulfilled promise of government. And since there is no other way to do this by the end of the parliamentary term, I, as an opposition MP, am here handing my hand to the government and trying to pull it out of a position where perhaps it could be called the one who gives false promises. It's a solution option, 5859 and 5860, when one of them is accepted, the other becomes unvoting. One is wider, one is narrower. But he says it's called. medical assessments will not be valid for just one year, but will be valid for two years. These are reports that every member of the school's recovery stay in nature must be documented by its organisers. There's some 150 thousand of those attendees. Every year, that's 150 thousand. visits to doctors who issue certificates. Of course, parents are obliged to pay a fee of between CZK 100 and CZK 200 in most cases. At the same time, they have to take vacations, because most practical doctors don't do it in the evenings, and they take the trip that's in the finals from my point of view. Why do I give two years' validity? Because then you can use a preventive visit. At this age, when children attend healing events, camps, schools in nature, they also reach a doctor in the two-year period. This physician can issue a medical opinion and solve it under one visit at a time. [[11.30 hours]] You may object, and rightly that the two-year period is awfully long, that of course the child's health can change, and then the health assessment loses meaning. This is already being thought of by the current regulation, which gives the annual life and validity of this opinion, the one that says that if the child's condition changes, this opinion will cease to be valid. I maintain this also for this two-year version, and therefore this problem is a change in the health condition, which is already in mind for the current annual validity, and also for the two-year validity is maintained. That's the softer of these two variations. But I will allow your attention and your consideration to provide one more adjustment to this possibility. It's 150 grand. children who go to camps each year, who have to undergo the medical examination of the doctor. It's often dealt with in the foyer. They'll look at the documentation, the question to the parents, if there's a disease, they'll write out the necessary information, whether it's vaccinations, some long-term disease, surveillance, so they'll put it in this file and stamp it. Of course, it is self-conceived to think that this certificate works, whether it is a recovery stay in Croatia by the sea, whether it is a camping camp with high mountain hiking or whether it is camping in teepee somewhere in the woods. The same medical opinion still works. A specific event, a specific treatment stay, is not considered, but a general medical certificate is provided. I am giving this consideration, and I am based on this as experience, years of experience with the management of camps, whether it would be impossible for children who are not dispensed to be monitored in any way, not sick, this responsibility for health assessment and the exposure of this health assessment to parents. I am convinced that they know their child's condition, there is no significant examination of the assessment, no specific matter if the parent says that the child is healthy, so the opinion is issued without difficulty and without change, so if in this case, where it must be about the will of both the leading camps, who assume responsibility and the responsible legal representatives, so if they agree that it is not necessary to go to the doctor, then give them the opportunity to exhibit this medical opinion to the extent that is of course given by law and is as wide as the medical one, so if they do not give them this opportunity. Of course, it is not that the possibility of a medical opinion being issued by a doctor would be abolished. If the parent himself or the organizer of the camp says that he requires medical advice from the doctor and is a condition for attending the camp, which he organises and where he assumes responsibility for the children, then, of course, the possibility of issuing these medical opinions with the doctor remains. Only if the organizer of the camp and the legal representative agree that in healthy children it is possible to obtain this opinion only from parents would this possibility be given. Again, I think that the responsibility for the children, for the offspring, is first borne by the parents, not by the state and its apparatus. So that's why it's the wider adjustment. Even in this case, the deadline would be two years. [[Noise in the hall.]] And as a legal representative and as an organizer of the camp, one thing has always bothered me, and that - certainly you have also met - is now completed by parents so-called confirmation of infectivity, which cannot be older than 24 hours before the start of the event. The parent writes and signs under the wording that the child did not come into contact with a natural person with an infectious disease or suspected disease 14 days before leaving for school in nature or at a recovery event. Who can sign this? You're not with a child 24 hours a day, you're not checking his every move. The kid goes to school, he moves around town. Yet here you are signing something you can't possibly say. And I don't like it when we make people lie. So I'd like to get rid of this obligation. These are the amendments that I have prepared, put into the system, and to which I will sign up in a detailed debate. Thank you for the unprecedented attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u9	Please, Mrs Chalánková. I apologise, Mr Kaňkovský's point of order. She comes first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u10	Good morning, colleagues. I will follow up on my colleague Farský, for we have been dealing with this issue for a long time. And you may not remember the discussion that took place here during the long discussion of the amendment to the Public Health Act, and on this very ground at the second reading, the promise fell from the former Minister of Health Svatopluk Němeček that the parents criticized and especially for them burdening health certificates will then be dealt with. I came back to this a while ago when I asked the Ministry of Health about why it had not been resolved, and I was told that it was not possible that this could not be followed up on preventive examinations, even though I proposed it with my colleague David Kasal back then and I am convinced that this solution is possible. Thank you, then, to my colleague Farský, for taking this up at this point, and I very much intercede for helping our parents on this matter. And as far as compensation for the consequences of vaccination is concerned, a few weeks ago, I interrogated the Minister on this very matter, and I must say that I was pleased by the fact that he, as a person and as a long-term manager of a medical facility specializing in children's affairs, admitted or said that he saw the responsibility of the state in this regard. Unfortunately, we are at the end of the parliamentary term and the time to prepare this law is very limited. Therefore, in this area too, let us consider supporting my colleague Farský's amendment so that we can really do something concrete in this area. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u11	Now, Mrs Chalánková has the floor and Mrs Pecková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to comment on my amendment, which is in the system under number 5511. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to tell you that I'm going to be speaking for a long time. So it's also for Mrs. Pecková. I will also try to justify my amendment on the grounds that, in the reasoning in this amendment, I refer to the House press under number 371, which was tabled as a Member's bill, and therefore I am telling you with open cards that it is overturned in the legislative process into this amendment. It concerns the regulation of anonymous donation of germ cells. I'm sure this subject will be very explosive, perhaps controversial. I would like to begin by saying that it would be good if I could ask you, fellow Members and fellow Members, to at least think about this subject. This proposal has already been in the Chamber of Deputies for the second term, namely seven years. During the last parliamentary term, he was no longer present at the hearing, and in this parliamentary term, the question is when would he have gotten to him. This parliamentary proposal, and in this case, translated into an amendment to the Government's draft law on specific health services, is characterised primarily by the fact that it does not concern health services at all. This proposal concerns basically ethical issues in anonymous donation of germ cells. What is the threat in the current situation in the Czech Republic? In the Czech Republic, the current legislation on artificial insemination is based on the principle of complete anonymity between an anonymous donor of germ cells on the one hand and a barren couple and a child conceived from assisted reproduction on the other. Here again, I point out that this concerns only germ cells from anonymous donors, no one else. As a result, current legislation allows the implementation of certain risk situations, including, or may, of course, include: (a) the biological relationship of an anonymous donor. Under the current legislation, artificial insemination cannot be carried out to a woman related to a man with whom she has submitted an application for artificial insemination. Paradoxically, however, anonymous germ cell donors may be biologically related to a woman, or anonymous donors may be biologically related to one another. A child may be conceived from germ cells of two persons who are related to one another in a direct line or who are siblings, and the law provides no way to prevent such situations. [[11.40 hours]] (b) Marriage between biologically related persons. As a result of the total anonymity of an anonymous germ cell donor, the fiancé cannot determine whether there is a biologically related relationship between them. Since there is no limited number of human embryos that can be formed from the germ cells of one donor, this is not a purely hypothetical case. (c) Denial of a child's right to know its biological parents. Here I would like to point out that if there was a proposal in the concept of family policy that lonely women could have the right, or women could have the right to fertilize without having to announce this intention, for example, to their partner, or were completely alone, I would like to say what, therefore, is the best right of the child to whom other legislation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is being swayed. Given the total anonymity of an anonymous donor, a child cannot identify the person from whom he is biologically derived. This may be important for the needs of some life-saving medical procedures, but also in the case of routine health care, when the history of a biological parent helps determine the appropriate treatment. Convention on the Rights of the Child No 104/1991 Coll. guarantees every child the right to know their parents. Article 10 (1) (a) 1 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms guarantees everyone the right to preserve his human dignity, his personal honor, his good reputation and his name. Article 10 (1) (a) 2 The Charter guarantees everyone the right to protection against unauthorised interference with private and family life. The Act on specific health services does not contain any guarantees or minimum measures to avoid the adverse events described above. At the same time, the law does not contain a minimum obligation to record data on sex cell donors or any quantitative restriction, a limit on the number of babies born from one donor. Neither the current family law nor the new civil code foretells these extremely serious contexts and does not require any certification as to whether a person conceived from a assisted reproduction process by a sex cell donor intending to marry is biologically related to a direct line or sibling. The current legislation therefore does not correspond to the eugenic, genetic and ethical interests of society in the health of the population, particularly as regards the elimination of artificial insemination from germ cells of biologically related persons, marriages between relatives in the direct line and between siblings and does not respect the right of children to know their biological parents. There, of course, it is clear that such information would have to be accompanied by proper psychological advice. The legislation in force in the Czech Republic does not comply with European standards, which I will mention when commenting on the position of the Government of the Czech Republic. According to the Austrian legislation § 14 of the Act in question, semen of one donor can only be used to treat three pairs. The centre of assisted reproduction is obliged to keep the following information about the donor: the name and surname, date and place of birth, nationality and place of permanent residence, the name and surname of his parents, the date on which the donation took place, and the results of the examination carried out under the provisions of the law in question. According to the second paragraph, a child born from a donor semen may apply for disclosure after 14 years, § 15 para. This law. This option also belongs to a person entitled, but only in medically exceptional and justified cases. According to the UK legislation, the anonymity of a child's donor may be broken after reaching his age, i.e. 18 years of age. The child will be given the donor's name and his last known address. - Here I will comment on the fact that our proposal does not in any way imply any legal claims from the child towards the donor. According to Finnish legislation, the right of the child to obtain information about the donor after an age of 18 years is regulated. First, the child must obtain from the service provider, such as assisted reproduction centres, a copy of the consent to the treatment on which the donor identification code is provided. Once the donor identification code has been entered into the registry, the identity of the donor will be identified. According to Swiss legislation, which also inspires our proposal, it only regulates the possibility of sperm donation. This is also important information because in the Czech Republic there is the possibility of donating both sperm and eggs. And in particular, the second matter means that under the idea that girls, especially young girls, feel that they are helping barren couples, so in reality they are being exploated, thus exploited, even under some kind of payment for spending this service. However, these girls may also be in danger of their health. And because our legislation in the Czech Republic is so liberal, we have become a liberal island in Europe and, of course, in the context of the other states, there is a great interest from other states in germ cells from the Czech Republic, and no one is dealing with it at all. We became a colony. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 19 Theorem 2 of the Act can donate sperm only in one assisted reproduction center. He must be explicitly informed of this fact before the donation. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 22 sentence 2 of the Act may be used by one donor to produce a maximum of eight children. In the event of legitimate interest, the child may receive all information regardless of age, i.e. has the right to obtain from the Registry identification data on the donor upon reaching age. I would also like to draw attention to the resolution of the Supreme Court in Germany. It has been at least two years since, at the request of one such girl, he has actually made a decision that he has the right to know his biological parents. And I can assure you that, according to psychological knowledge at a time of adolescence and early adulthood, if something like this is discovered, there really is the interest of a hundred percent of children to know their biological parents. There's no way they can be raised by someone else. The purpose of the bill is to eliminate the undesirable effects described above. The draft law is based on the following principles: (a) limiting the maximum number of human embryos that can be formed from the germ cells of an anonymous donor; (b) the prohibition of assisted reproduction in relation to germ cell agents; (c) the establishment of a separate and restricted record of anonymous donor data. The proposed legislation distinguishes between cases where artificial insemination occurred when germ cells were used by an anonymous donor and when the donor of germ cells was a man enrolled in the birth register as the father of a child. In view of the purpose pursued, the proposed adjustment primarily regulates the first option. The proposal has a negligible direct impact on the state budget, regional and municipal budgets. Of course, it's clear that he has a major impact on clinic budgets, that's for sure. Perhaps I can still read here an assessment of the proposed legislation. The proposed legislation is in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. And the proposed legislation is in line with the international treaties to which the Czech Republic is bound, in particular the Convention on Fundamental Human Rights and Freedoms, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of the Human Being in connection with the application of biology and medicine. The whole reasoning is, of course, part of the House's 371 press, which was the original parliamentary proposal. Here I would like to comment that it is clear to me that this proposal will be more for you to think about. Nevertheless, I would like to point out that this is primarily a huge business, because the Czech Republic, as I have already said, has really become a colony which is in an unequal position compared to other surrounding states of the Czech Republic. Above all, I would like to point out that I am concerned, I am very concerned about the health of girls who are often under the idea that they are doing good, so they are able and willing to harm their own health, either at the moment of collection, or also because there is medication there, as well as in this way for the future. Either at the moment of collection or in the future, even the possibility of endangering infertility. That's being investigated so far, this matter. [[11.50 hours]] It is clear that the arguments against my proposal are based primarily on clinic workers who have relatively freedom in determining who should be the donor and who should no longer be the donor. While we read that there is testing for some communicable diseases, however, who moves in medicine knows that it is really only a very small section of all possible diseases that a donor may suffer. There is therefore a selection, which is fully in the hands of these clinic workers, and also a selection of embryos, which is also in the hands of these clinic workers. I have already talked about the unequal position of the Czech Republic compared to the surrounding states. I have already talked about the need to protect the health of girls in particular. When it comes to the government's position, I would like to argue with some things here. For example, paragraph 1 states that the risk of related marriages caused by assisted reproduction is quite minimal and far from reaching natural risk in the population. Of course, that is clear to all of us, but it is so-called nonzero because of course it is also formulated by employees of these clinics. Two. The proposed new paragraph 10a of the Act on Specific Health Services does not take into account the fact that the Czech Republic is bound by EU directives, including Directive 2004/23/EC, which is transposed into Act No. 296/2008 Coll., on ensuring the quality and safety of human tissues and cells intended for human use and amending related laws, the Act on human tissues and cells, as amended, and Decree No. 422/2008 Coll., on the establishment of closer requirements for ensuring the quality and safety of human tissues and cells intended for human use, as amended. So here I would like to oppose, and I believe and believe, and it is a question of which of you will also be convinced that germ cells are not really tissue cells like any other, and that it is not really a transfer of, for example, skin or blood transfusion. Here I would also like to say that the position of compatibility is also expressed, by saying that this proposal relates in substance to a matter which EU law does not directly regulate. The draft law is therefore not contrary to EU rules. So the question is, how can such opinions contradict each other in this way? This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 4 At the same time, the government notes that only some of the rights of the child are being thought of in the bill, but the rights of the child's parents - perhaps the right of parents to a child, as may be emerging somewhere today - are not taken into account - that is, of course, a barren couple, with whom I very much sympathize, who is longing for children who have undergone assisted reproduction methods, or the rights of donors of reproductive cells to protect against unauthorized interference in private and family life. So the question is, where are the rights of the child? But it is clear that this whole process would have to be accompanied by a highly psychological escort, similar to the adoption of children, for example. Paragraph 5. The government also points out that adjustments that do not allow the identity of an anonymous donor to be identified are also valid in many other countries. So-called "Prime Minister' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. On the contrary, open identities were introduced in Sweden, the UK, and the number of reproductive cell donors fell significantly there, and barren couples there often go to other countries to take advantage of treatment. It can be assumed that this would cause a similar reaction in the Czech Republic. Of course I do! These states, which protect the health of their citizens and also protect their country's genetic material, go to the Czech Republic, then also to India, Bangladesh, and we therefore become a developing country in an unequal position compared to those countries that already have reason and regulation of anonymous donation. Then there is the question of the Civil Code, who is the mother of the child. So far, the mother of the child remains the woman who gave birth to the child, although I believe that there will also be other and other ideas for this change. I guess that's it. The full detailed reasoning is part of the proposal under number 371, which could and should be part of the statement of reasons for my amendment, which is in the system under number 5511, to which I will sign up in the detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u13	Thank you, Madame. Before I give the floor to Mrs Pecková, I'll read the apologies. Mr Kasal apologizes, today from 11.10 pm for personal reasons, and Mr Štětina apologizes today from 13 pm also for personal reasons. And now Mrs Pecková has the floor. Mr. Hovorka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u14	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to explain my two amendments, which came out of professional medical companies and which do not actually propose anything new, on the contrary, trying to maintain the status quo. The first of them, there is an amendment to § 4, namely intrauterine insemination. The aim of my amendment is to keep the paragraph in its original version and not to expand the legitimate providers of equipment that has not yet had this competence. The implementation of intrauterine insemination undoubtedly falls under the field of reproductive medicine and not in the basic field of gynaecology and obstetrics. It is carried out in a monitored cycle, usually stimulated, and should only be provided by specialised centres. Then there's a collision with Law No. 296/2008 Coll., on Human Tissues and Cells, where it is said that human tissues and cells can only be processed and used in tissue establishments authorised by the State Institute for Drug Control. And this condition is currently met only by assisted reproduction centres, not by practical gynecologists. So much for my first amendment. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The other one concerns gender conversion operations. Transsexuality is a sexual identity disorder. It's an inverse sexual identification, and it's associated with mental disorders and an irrefutable requirement to transform the body's sex to match the sexual identity experienced. At the same time, sexual orientation can be both heterosexual and homosexual with transsexuals. The goal of the treatment, which is covered by public health insurance in the Czech Republic, is to achieve a lasting sense of satisfaction in the gender role and thus mental well-being. Of course, aesthetic and plastic procedures are not covered by the insurance company. For any such client or patient, if you wish, it is necessary to consider a number of aspects individually before such a procedure - biological, psychological, but also social and economic. The transformation process itself is complex and very long-term. In the Czech Republic, this is two to five years, and after psychological and hormonal treatment only the stage of the operation starts and it consists of a set of demanding procedures, which very significantly and completely irreversibly interfere with the initial state of organs and their functions. These procedures can be performed at the request of a person over 18 years of age, for at least one year of continued hormonal treatment and after approval by a specialized commission of the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic... I'd like a little peace of mind.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep it down. The MP is screaming at you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u16	In addition to the patient's or client's own examination, the commission has all the documentation of many years of treatment available in its decision-making. The presence of an attending doctor, who is biased in the interest of the patient and always tries to convince the committee of his subjective opinion, is undesirable in this crucial decision-making. The final decision, and therefore the responsibility for them, is based on the commission and its independent assessment for the client's further life. This is absolutely not to say that the treating physician could not be present. But always by agreement, not by law and after careful consideration in the interests of the patient. The practice has proved to be successful, and there is no reason to change it in the novel. I thank you for your attention and, in a detailed debate, I will then sign up for the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u17	Good noon. Thank you, Madame. Another one for the general debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, as assisted reproduction has already been said here, it is a complex matter which brings, say, good for families who cannot have children, but also presents a number of risks to donors, for example. eggs, as well as the risk that people who come from artificial insemination may join in the future in marriage and may thus be related. And this is what I think needs to be treated in some way, so I have prepared some amendments to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. And I would now like to make a statement on that, or what is the subject of those amendments. For one thing, it is a restriction on the number of embryos or germ cells that the germ cells of one anonymous donor can be used to produce a maximum of four human embryos. In addition, the age reduction for the egg recipient from 49 years to 45 years. Further definition when artificial insemination cannot be carried out. When can be removed and used for methods and procedures assisted by germ cell evolution. Next, who can't or mustn't be an anonymous donor. Furthermore, an assessment of the incompetence of an anonymous donor, and in how many providers an anonymous donor can donate germ cells. There is only one provider in this proposal. And it's for the purpose of effectively guaranteeing that it won't be across the country. Furthermore, it concerns the amendment and the retention of data or the extension of the retention of data in the register. One very important amendment, which is part of my amendments, concerns a substitute - suffocation - motherhood, which is not yet defined in our country and is not actually allowed, but according to information that can be found in the offers of companies on the Internet, is quite common in the Czech Republic. This amendment states that surrogate - supra-supremacy - motherhood, i.e. a process whereby an embryo of biological parents is carried by another surrogate with the intention to become pregnant in this way, a child of biological parents to carry and give birth, but immediately after giving up all parental obligations and rights to that child, is not permitted in the Czech Republic or for such biological parents and for surrogates or for providers of such specific health services. Another part of this amendment concerns remuneration, or if we want to compensate for the costs of giving germ cells, because this is often being circled and for so-called. costs are often considered to be very high rewards that may motivate girls, young women from low-income groups, to harm their health, or potentially harm their health. Another part of the amendment then concerns the reflection of these changes in the Civil Code. Now to justify my amendments. The procreation of a large number of non - knowledgeable biological siblings in a region should be avoided, as this increases the risk of unwanted incest relations and the risk of birthing disabled children at the same time. Today, it is not effectively ensured that children from artificial insemination cannot meet at a later age when they are seeking partners, that they cannot meet two children who are actually born by artificial means and one donor. This needs to be treated and my proposal reduces this risk. Come in. There are no new eggs in a woman's life. Only existing eggs that have been released from the ovary during ovulation during the monthly cycle may be fertilized. The eggs age over time and their quality with the age of the woman declines. The older the woman is when she is conceived, the greater the risk of harm to the fetus. In an older parent, especially a primary parent, pregnancy is more risky and childbirth can be more difficult. This concerns a reduction in the age when eggs can still be taken. Come in. Assessment of the health status of the donor or donor of germ cells and their beneficiaries is necessary in order to minimise the risk of foetal disability. This assessment shall include the identification of the donor's family history to exclude the genetic burden. Donor anamnesia is also needed to make sure that the donor is healthy. It is also necessary to rule out cases where an anonymous donor could become a person with a criminal past, a person with an addiction to addictive substances, a person who is unfit for anonymous donation. Caution is needed in this respect in order to prevent the spread of pathological factors in society by artificial medical intervention. For the donor, the collection of the egg is always associated with a significant health burden. They must undergo preparation for taking high doses of hormones and the collection of the egg is performed surgically in anesthesia. It is necessary to prevent women, often very young in a difficult financial situation, from donating eggs repeatedly, at disproportionately short intervals, for the sake of financial benefit. A reason relating to a sulrogate motherhood. Surogate motherhood is undesirable, (a) because it leads to the deformation of the family relations and the mental burden of both the biological mother, from whose egg the embryo was created, as well as the mother's carrier, who was inserted into the uterus and who then completed the entire period of pregnancy and gave birth to the child, to hand them over immediately to the biological mother and to give up all rights to the child. (b) There is also a psychological burden in the biological father of the child, who assumes part of the moral responsibility for the mother of the carrier. (c) This is a situation which must be dealt with in a contract and requires special arrangements with regard to the health insurance of the carrier's mother and the determination of the financial remuneration. It is unimaginable that a woman would be willing to become a surrogacy mother without an adequate financial reward. (d) There are known litigations from countries where surrogacy is permitted in cases where the mother of the carrier refuses to give up the child after birth, when the biological parents divorce during her pregnancy, or when one or both of them die. [[12.10 hours]] For all these reasons, in Germany, Austria and in a number of other Member States of the European Union and elsewhere in the world of surrogate motherhood, it should be banned and banned from our country. Already today there are common advertising campaigns of equipment that offer this service also in the Czech Republic. Even for tissue donation. The Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine of the Council of Europe, the so-called Ovieda Convention, which the Czech Republic ratified and which is part of our rule of law, prohibits the use of human cells and tissues for remuneration. It should be stressed that this also applies to germ cells, i.e. eggs and sperm. In practice, however, this Convention is being circumvented and any amount of financial remuneration on advertising panels is referred to as the reimbursement of donation expenses. So much for the justification for my amendments, which I will then sign up for in a detailed debate. I would like to say that I have prepared these amendments with the doctor, who has been engaged in bioethics for a very long time, and I therefore consider these amendments to be correct and important. I can still quote one letter I received from a doctor who works, I suppose he's still working at the center of reproductive medicine. I will not present the workplace here, but it is very good for you to listen to this letter, because it is truly alarming. Dear Member, the treatment of infertility is increasingly associated with very unfair practices. The long-standing pursuit of real redress has been undermined by strong interest groups. Among the gynecologists in the Czech Republic is well known for the fact that they receive a decent commission for each patient sent to IVF in the private center. The health insurance companies and the Ministry of Health of the Czech Republic already have this information, but it is very interesting that they do nothing against it. They even posted software companies on their websites. One of the options of module IVF, billing commissions to sending physicians for recommendations of treatment at the workplace for the treatment of infertility. The center owners give the transfer gynecologist $3,000 for the IVF cycle, and if it's with PGD or with egg donation, then even more. Where's the medicine? Several legal imaginations are created, which clearly legalize corrupt behavior. Payment for consulting and consulting activities and many others. Legally, it's well-treated. The bribe is elegantly even tax deducted. Very controversial is also an examination of the number of chromosomes in the embryo before transfer to the uterus. Indicates the abbreviation PGD or PGS. The expected benefit was not demonstrated, on the contrary, it deteriorated the results. Serious opinions, including database protection, refer to this method as an experiment. What's the practice? The question is, do you want to have a healthy embryo? You can easily guess the answer. What logically follows? It's gonna cost you. How much? Some workplaces screw up the price even over 70,000 crowns. This is the 2011 figure. It's also the surest sex selection. And profit from that? An estimated 75 percent or more. And health insurance companies even pay for these experimental performances to some centers. Why do you think? If you also feel sorry for some unfortunate couples and find a way to help them, it will certainly be a good deed. Even now, to the price list. Here are prices from 24,000 to 73 250 crowns for the PGD, PGD verification or embryo aneuploids, but there are also amounts for the use of the oocyte of the donor for CZK 39,000, IVF cycle with embryotransfer of the self-paying 26,000 crowns, etc. As is clear from what I have quoted, it is a system of artificial insemination of science, which has proven a lot of success all along and has brought many good families who could not have children, but it is also a huge business which, in my opinion, is not properly regulated, and the Ministry of Health should be involved in this area. I think it should also be addressed by the Health Committee, because there are certain rules that should not be exceeded, they should be observed. We should look at how this is regulated in other European countries. That should be adapted to our legal order. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the general debate. I don't see anyone like that. I am ending the general debate. I ask if there is an interest in final words after the general debate. Minister and rapporteur? Not interested. There has been no voteable proposal in this section. I am therefore opening a detailed debate in which Members have made themselves known gradually. Mr Rostislav Vyzula is the first Member to prepare Mr Farský. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me sign up to two amendments in this form. The first is in the system under number 5526 and concerns the quality of drinking water, as I mentioned in the general debate. The second is under number 5811 and concerns the termination of the coordination centre KSRZIS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Farský will also speak in a detailed debate, and Mrs Chalánková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u22	Thank you for the floor. In a detailed debate, I would like to sign up for the amendments in the system under 5858, 5859 and 5860. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u23	Thank you, too. Mrs Chalánková will be next, Mrs Pecková will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u24	Thank you for the floor. Allow me to sign up for my amendment under number 5511, which I have already justified in the general debate. The reasons in writing are, throughout the system under House printing 371 as part of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u25	Thank you. Mrs Pecková.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I would hereby apply to my two amendments, which are in the system under the numbers 5077 and 5078, including the explanatory memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u27	Thank you. The next one is Mr Adámek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u28	Hello, Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, Mr Minister. Allow me to sign up for the amendment in the system under number 5312. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u29	Thank you, too. Mr Hovorka is the last to be discussed in detail. This is the reporter's report. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u30	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I am now applying to the amendments to this press 874, which have been inserted into the system under number 5878, with one small modification against what is inserted into the system, which is precisely related to that part 8, the replacement, the suprarogate, motherhood, when I propose to amend that section 32a: "Replaceable motherhood, that is, the process where the embryo of the biological parents carries another, the surrogate mother with the intention of getting pregnant in this way, the child of the biological parents to carry and give birth, but immediately after giving birth all parental obligations and rights to this child, is not permitted in the Czech Republic nor for such biological parents, for surrogate mothers, or for providers of such specific health services, except for the close relationship between the biological and sulrogate mother. [[Surrogate]] That's the only change I've put into the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u31	Thank you. Mr Havíř is reporting for a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u32	Hello again. In the context of a detailed debate, I would like to sign up for the three amendments that Mr Pavel Antonín has put into the system. The first amendment is inserted under number 5519 and concerns the unification of administrative charges. For more detailed reasons, I refer to the above-mentioned press. The second amendment I would like to read is an amendment which is deposited under number 5521 in the system, and it is an amendment that responds and reflects on the new development of transplant treatment. Again, in a more detailed explanation, I refer to this House's press. And the last amendment that I am proposing to is a proposal that is deposited under number 5520 in the system, and it is an amendment that regulates certain wordings, uniting certain moments when the terminology used must be formally unified. Again, in a more detailed explanation, I refer to the press version of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u33	Thank you, rapporteur. With a factual remark, Mr Hovorka is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u34	In addition to what I have put forward, the amendment to Section 32a, which concerns a substitute, surogan motherhood, must also be reflected in the same part concerning the amendment of the Civil Code.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u35	I take it you're verbally supplementing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u36	I solemnly add that this should be interpreted both in the Health Services Act and in the Civil Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-005-017.u37	Okay, thank you. I do not register any further applications for a detailed debate. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in a detailed debate. It's not like that. So that concludes the detailed debate. I ask the Minister if he is interested in the final word, the rapporteur? They're not interested. I have not registered any proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading, nor to address the guarantee committee, so I end the second reading of this proposal and conclude this item. The next item is item 9 which is
