ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-003-347.u1	347. A proposal to set up a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies to investigate whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from such files and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law A group of 40 Members and Members submitted a proposal to set up this committee of inquiry. I ask that the representative of this group, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-003-347.u2	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, let me justify the proposal to set up a committee of inquiry, whose name Mr President said a moment ago, I will not repeat it. [[Noise in the hall.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The Chamber of Deputies to investigate matters of public interest to set up a committee of inquiry -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-003-347.u3	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-003-347.u4	This is one of the expressions of Parliament's supervisory power as a body of democratically elected citizens' representatives. It would hardly be possible to find a more important and important matter of public interest than maintaining a democratic rule of law, which is an essential part of the Czech Republic's conditions as well as a political system based on the free and voluntary establishment and free competition of political parties under Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5 Constitution of the Czech Republic. If information appears that these elementary principles are in danger, the Chamber of Deputies should not remain inactive, especially when the issue of the risk of political abuse of the media in the Czech Republic also appears on the agenda of the forthcoming European Parliament meeting. He's been doing the last few weeks in connection with . Andrej Babiš, Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the first Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance and, above all, the President of one of the most important political groups in the countries, raises questions as to whether Mr Ing. Andrej Babiš or persons tied with him in a certain way, e.g. employees of directly or indirectly controlled legal entities did not engage in negotiations which could have been aimed at influencing political competition and destabilising the democratic rule of law, not in recent months, but perhaps earlier in 2014 and 2015. [[11.20 hours]] The investigating committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, whose establishment is proposed, should therefore focus primarily on answering the questions that have been raised here in the recent past. Although a number of lawyers say that the conduct recorded on published recordings could be criminal, it should be borne in mind that the commission of inquiry is not conducting criminal investigations. Its aim is to establish in a consistent manner all the necessary information concerning the threat to the public interest for which it is established. Political and moral responsibility also plays an important role, and it can be recalled that Mr Ing himself. Andrej Babiš has committed himself to respecting the independence of the media operated by his controlled legal entities. Although the commission of inquiry may, if it is indicated by the fact that an offence has been committed, report its findings to the law enforcement authorities, its role is crucial in the light of the findings of the facts to the public and the possibility of submitting possible proposals to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. This should also be the aim of the commission of inquiry, whose establishment is now proposed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-003-347.u5	Thank you, too. I ask you to follow the general debate with me at the rapporteur's table, and this is what I am opening up. I'm registering a single application, and that's yours, Mr. Ambassador. I would like to ask if you still want to speak in the general debate. It's not like that. So I'm going to erase you as a speaker. I wonder if anyone else wants to speak in the general debate. I am not registering an application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I ask if you want to take the final word before I open a detailed debate. It's not like that. We will now proceed to the debate in detail. I ask who is reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-003-347.u6	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I would like to present to you the motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies to set up this committee of inquiry. Motion for a resolution by the Chamber of Deputies on the establishment of a commission of inquiry by the Chamber of Deputies to investigate whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from such files and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law. Chamber of Deputies I. Established pursuant to Article 30 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and pursuant to Section 48 of Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Commission of the Chamber of Deputies to investigate whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from such files, and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law; II. Instructs the Commission to examine whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from such files and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law; III. set a deadline until 31 August 2017, within which the Commission of inquiry is required to present its findings with a proposal from the Chamber of Deputies; IV. determines the number of members of the committee of inquiry for seven, on behalf of ČSSD MPs - one member, YES 2011 - one member, KSČM - one member, TOP 09 and Mayors - one member, ODS - one member, KDU-ČSL - one member, Dawn - National Coalition - one member. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-003-347.u7	Thank you for the motion for a resolution and I ask if anyone else is reporting in a detailed debate. I don't see an application. If this is the case, I shall conclude a detailed debate. I ask you, Mr. plaintiff, if you wish to take the final word at this moment. It's not like that. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposed resolution. I'm registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. I ask whether it is necessary to repeat the motion for a resolution as read in the detailed debate. It's not like that. In that case, I would begin the vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as read in the detailed debate, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 148, with 130 Members registered, for proposal 82, against 36. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved and that the committee of inquiry has been set up. I thank you and end the discussion of this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-003-347.u8	Good morning, dear colleagues. Our next item on the agenda is the item
