ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u1	71. Government bill on social housing and housing allowance /house print 1065/ - first reading This proposal was dealt with on 11 April, when they were interrupted by the general debate. I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Before I open the debate, I ask the appellant or rapporteur if you want to speak at this moment. Please, rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u2	Thank you for the floor. Since it has been some time since my speech at the last opening of this point, I would like to recall at least some of the important moments which concern this law. I would like to object, if I may, to the possible media outputs of the Minister, who says that the opposition wants to move towards obstruction, that it does not want this law on social housing to be discussed and sent further to committees. I would like to remind you that such an important law, which is very extensive and which also brings new responsibilities to municipalities, for example, or the possibility of solving this problem in the direction of municipalities, where no agreement has been reached, such a law is unfortunately brought by the Ministry at the very end of its period. That the opposition or Members want proper consideration of this law, because what passes through the Chamber of Deputies will be precisely a law that affects citizens, and that law should be of good quality. Here I would like to point out that, although this law appears to have been written by legislation, the opposite is true. I think that this law is, in fact, very poor quality, it can indeed be considered to be a very poor design. So it is not because we would like to defend the approval of the law, but it is our duty that the Chamber of Deputies should come into the field and the law of good quality for the public. [[18.10 hours]] This law is put forward just before the end of the parliamentary term, and it is a law of fundamental importance. I am aware that this law has been denounced by the current government as one of its most basic objectives, yet we have heard here last week, or in the previous discussion when the law was opened, a letter sent by the Minister for Regional Development, Minister Šlechtová, was read here by Mrs Maxová, who also sent major objections to this law. From that law, the petitioners promise not only to solve the housing shortage of people who find themselves on the street or in inadequate housing, but also to help people who live but who can get into housing emergencies at any time with regard to their low incomes. These are important messages, because not only can we provide apartments for those people who are at risk of losing their homes or are already homeless, so on the other hand, we can also bring people who are only short of enough funds to maintain their housing. I'll get to that. The process of preparing this law has been accompanied from the beginning by competent and factual disputes between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry for Regional Development and the Minister for Human Rights. Let me also remind you that the preparation of this law was started by approving the concept of social housing for the years 2015 to 2025. Even the process of adopting this concept was not easy and only 12 October 2015 did the government agree on its final wording. This conceptual material defined priorities in the area of social housing, allocated financial amounts to the development of social housing and was to be the basis for the future law on social housing. However, the concept was accepted despite the disapproval of the Ministry of Regional Development, which even gave up its co-gestorship. This concept was not accepted positively by representatives of municipalities, because it is the municipalities who logically have to play a key role in the social housing system. The concept envisaged the compulsory involvement of municipalities in the social housing system, and although the authors eventually abandoned the contested proposal to establish a fixed percentage of the flats which the municipalities would have to exclude from the housing fund into social housing, in addition to the concern of unauthorized intervention in the municipal decision-making of the municipalities were already another critical point of the lack of funding. These are the fundamental questions that should be raised here and answered. For whom this law should be determined here, for whom this social housing should be determined and how much it should cost. With regard to the system itself, the concept then envisaged the establishment of three types of social housing, so-called. crisis, social and affordable. This system should have been transparent and motivating for its clients. The concept also included specific tasks for individual resorts in the field of social housing and the Social Housing Act was to be submitted to the Government by 30 June 2016 together with accompanying laws. Social housing is a very broad topic in which it is addressed, or at least it should address not only accommodation for clients of the social system, but also social housing benefits and conditions for their provision, housing standards, rules of neighbourly coexistence, debt management of tenants and specific problems in excluded localities and a number of other problems. There are other documents prepared by individual departments in accordance with the tasks assigned by the government. These documents dealt with partial problems, or at least tried to propose some solutions. It will therefore be up to you to assess how beneficial it has been for the final form of the Social Housing Act, the amount of paper that government officials have described during this parliamentary term on the subject. I will not be here to slavishly describe the whole law, what the Minister said when the law was being opened, and we can read it in the Houses of the Press, but I will focus on preparing it. She didn't go as smoothly as the Ministry imagined. As with the concept, the deadlines for the presentation of the law were repeatedly shifted. The law has acknowledged major changes in the process of commenting. The main core of the dispute has been, as I have already said, the financing of the proposed system. It was not until July last year until September that the law was sent into the internal review procedure and it was only in September that it went into the external review procedure. And the external commentary procedure was closed on 19 October. The law was submitted without reaching agreement with those who have something to say about social housing. The Ministry of Finance expressed its main opposition. Redesigned the Justice Department, critical comments were also made by the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Part-Working demanded a large majority of other comment points. Although some requirements were contradictory, a vast number of comments were still repeated. The aim was mainly the low legislative quality of the proposed draft and the lack of implementing regulations, the incomplete quantification of costs in the management to regulate impacts, i.e. the so-called. the RIA report, unclear funding and concerns about intervention in the rights of self-government, if the obligation of municipalities to participate in the system is maintained. The version in the external commentary procedure even contained financial sanctions for municipalities. At the same time, concerns were raised about the low number of social workers to start working in the new system and to ensure social work with problem tenants. A large number of comments focused on how social housing should work in practice according to the proposed standard. I consider these questions to be all the more justified, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has not yet dealt with many of them. Followed by a several-month settlement process of comments and rewrites of the law. I now do not want to recapitulate individual announced proposals because we have learned about them almost exclusively from the media after the coalition negotiations. At a speed, then. Gradually, the compulsory involvement of municipalities was abandoned. The role of the employment authorities, which were originally to function as a social real estate agency, was changed. A new office was invented to allocate state flats, so that it would also be abandoned, and competence would be entrusted to the State Housing Development Fund. The new merged levy replacing the current supplement and housing allowance was ultimately left not only to pay social rent in social apartments, it will be able to continue to travel to standard apartments. The deadlines, the definition of the target group and other essential elements of the law were changed. But I don't want to go into details. Only Minister Marksová and her colleagues in the government know this, how the discussions took place and for what reasons some essential parameters of the law have changed and how big compromises and from whose side they have been accepted. And, above all, it is not the task of Members to address us for ministers and governmental parties their mutual disputes and disagreements. However, as rapporteur, I must draw attention once again to the absolutely essential issue. The version of the law that we received in the Chamber of Deputies is fundamentally different from the one which went through the external commentary procedure concluded in October and was no longer able to comment on it. So the government is sending us a whole new law without going through the wheel of standard comments. And not just that. At the same time, the government also bypassed the Legislative Council of the Government, where at the beginning of February only the regulatory impact assessment committee dealt with by law, and its position on the RIA accompanying the bill is clear: the Ministry does not have the cost of social housing calculated at all. It is also unclear where a sufficient number of apartments could be taken to serve as social apartments. And the committee recommended that we return the document to the review. I have some passages at my disposal. You may think that one opinion should not undermine our will for social housing to address the need for a social housing system even in some unknown cases. I certainly wish I could, because despite perhaps different ideas, we all feel that social housing can represent an effective and deserved aid and a return to normal life for a group of people. But we should be aware that we are not talking about a multi-million-dollar investment that we are dealing with within a single budget. We are talking about the cost of billions, without which social housing according to current, very ambitious ideas will never start to work. And that's why this information scares me. It comes from them that the government has passed a law that floats on the water. [[18.20 hours]] As far as seniors are concerned, even RIA here swelled up a little bit in the meantime. RIA notes that the problem of seniors in housing emergencies is latent, but does not follow any further information, so we do not know whether the seniors need a well-balanced social benefit in order to stay in their existing home and be able to pay rent, or the state wants to move them into new social apartments. Instead of a thorough analysis, RIA is referring, for example, to the Rapid Rehousing project in Brno, which, as far as I know, is running only briefly, and on the behaviour of problem tenants, RIA again draws data from some small project in the area of Žluticka. I am not really sure that these are the relevant documents on the basis of which the state is to spend tens of billions on social housing. Similarly, however, there are also serious problems in a material way. The law aims at very diverse groups of people - from homeless to those of the elderly. But as a result, it can hurt some people in difficulty. The law sets out, among other things, new rules for calculating a new housing allowance to replace existing benefits. And the petitioner himself admits that up to 14 percent of people lose this contribution in the new system. And wouldn't it be single moms? Or the seniors that the secretary likes to talk about? People who live but only have deep pockets and housing allowance help them pay standard rent? We would look for further analysis in the explanatory report in vain. Moreover, with constant changes, we were in a state where the deadlines for the allocation of the apartment in the law were extended to two, respectively. Three years. Is this really effective helping people in housing distress? Shouldn't much more attention be paid to asylum houses and the financing of social services associated with helping people in need? How will crisis housing work, where clients of social housing can theoretically fall into? Will the hostels stay open? And does the State finally lay down health standards for their operation? The representatives of the Ministry will certainly argue that the Social Services Act, for example, solves this problem. However, I believe that the emergency aid system should be linked and that individual types of assistance should logically follow up. By setting two different deadlines, the law simultaneously establishes an inequality between clients of the social system. Whoever will be lucky and will live in the village's system involved is to get an apartment until the said two years. Whoever does not live in such a village and has to ask for an apartment from the State Housing Development Fund is unlucky. He'll be waiting a year longer. I do not know why these deadlines have been set in this way. However, I dare say that two different legal regimes can also be a problem in terms of compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, respectively. equality of citizens before the law. The law will divide people into two different groups, with the only criterion being their place of residence. If the government wants to protect social housing, it cannot create two categories of citizens. Although concerns about intervention into the competence of municipalities have fallen at first sight, the pressures on the compulsory involvement of municipalities persist. And a big theme is certainly the motivation of municipalities to participate in the system voluntarily. The conditions for financing social housing remain uncertain because they are largely not enshrined directly in the law, but depend on government regulations. I confess that I also have great doubts about the functioning of the State Housing Development Fund. The representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs at the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Housing Policy did not even dispel these concerns. I will be happy to explain from the representatives of the Ministry how specifically and where the State Housing Development Fund will receive housing into the social housing fund. If I have read the bill correctly, it does not say anywhere that the State Housing Development Fund must look for empty and suitable apartments for social housing in the locality of the existing residence of the person in housing distress. The conditions for placing social apartments to prevent the creation of new ghettos have also disappeared from the law. I therefore very much understand the objections from the non-profit sector and from the Social Housing Platform, which was actively involved in the preparation of the law. Without any rules, we risk the current ghetto staying and the new ghetto joining them. There's another very controversial point. In vain, I searched the law for anything that could be interpreted as a motivation to return from a social apartment to a normal rental home. The law in its final form has lost what we find in the original concept of 2015. It builds a system that is not accessible, but, on the contrary, keeps clients of the social system in social housing permanently. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs even admits to this in the RIA. First of all, I would like to mention the positive changes that the bill has undergone gradually in order to balance my report. First of all, it is a return to permanent residence as a condition of granting a social apartment. Some towns rightly feared that socially weak people from all over the Republic would move to their territory. It is not that this is no longer happening, but it would be newly under the auspices of the state. Secondly, it was decided that the housing allowance would also be provided for normal, not just social housing. I take it for granted, because many people, and I dare say most, will not want to move into new apartments together with troubled tenants, for example, from excluded localities. They want to stay at home, where they're used to, and they just need help paying rent. And this, by the way, also applies to many of the seniors that the Ministry most often conjures up. For some, the law may bring new complications. Unfortunately, positive shifts are in the minority from my perspective. The law is dominated by changes that made its original versions a torso, and the resulting torso asks more questions than answers. The law has really spread wide. He wants one model to help save homeless people, residential people, while helping low-income families and seniors. But it does not solve the reason why people find themselves in housing distress, and it does not seek to bring these people back to normal life as a result of national efforts. In a way, it is based on new injustice. The practical functioning of social housing remains unclear. According to the available information, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs supported pilot projects in 14 Czech cities and wants to prepare implementing decrees and methodologies, but this effort comes somewhat late. My esteemed colleagues, my fellow Members, I consider the Government's progress to be completely inappropriate, because it deliberately confronts us with a law on which the coalition itself has not found a consensus. The government bypassed standard mechanisms designed to prepare new legislation, commentary proceedings and legislative council and sent paskvil to the Chamber of Deputies. However, MEPs are not to blame for the fact that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has already defended its ideas, except at the last moment it has taken action quickly. The procedure for the preparation of the Social Housing Act shows what a legislative process should not look like. Of course, I have also heard the opinion that the law needs to be adopted as quickly as possible, especially in order to do something, the amendments can be changed in the future. I don't share that attitude. I think that this House should not allow a semi-finished project into the world shortly before the elections, with an unclear future, to burden other governments with a commitment of tens of billions of crowns, without being able to say with certainty that it will work. I therefore propose and propose in the general debate, which is already open, which I have signed up to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u3	The debate is not yet open. At this point, you have the floor as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u4	Okay, well, I'm gonna sign up in the general debate on the proposal that I'm now calling on. I want to sign up for the motion that I want to return the law to the petitioners for revision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. So we will now continue the interrupted general debate. Mr Vilímec was interrupted in his speech. [[Mr. Wilhelm from the bench: I don't want any more, I'm done.]] Okay. As Mr Soukup has a factual point, I can only give him the floor after the general debate has begun because only the debate can be answered. With priority rights, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u6	As I have already said, the government had a huge and commendable ambition to solve homeless people's problems, and the law prepared for the entire term. The result, unfortunately, is a complete and useless pasquil. This is not only about many legislative shortcomings, but especially from a factual point of view. The proposal does not have the financing resolved, the implementing rules are not prepared, it is impenetrable, it would download people into the system, but would not motivate them to leave it. For truly vulnerable people, such as seniors and single moms, it would be a disaster, because a large part of them would lose their housing allowance and gain nothing. The law is probably contrary to the constitutional principle of equality before the law. The government has completely failed at the crucial point of its agenda, and as elections are approaching, it wants to turn responsibility for not adopting the law into this House. Therefore, it has put forward this proposal despite the fact that it must itself be aware of its shortcomings. In my opinion, rejecting this proposal would not be wise. We would send a message that there is no need to address social housing, that the housing situation is no problem. This is not the case, the housing situation especially for seniors and singles and low-income families needs to be addressed. But this law will not solve it. We will not even be able to correct this law in committees. It would mean a whole new law in committees. Therefore, I propose that this bill be returned to the petitioner, the government, for work. If this proposal does not pass, I would like to propose extending the deadline for the hearing of the law in committees by 20 days. I deliberately say committees in plural. In view of the number and nature of the points at issue, I assume that other committees will also want to deal with the law, not just the Committee on Social Policy, which was designated as the Committee on Guarantee. As rapporteur, I will be happy to propose or support the assignment of the law to other committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u7	Good afternoon. Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Zdeněk Soukup, Mrs Jana Hnyková, made a point of fact. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, basically I agree, by your means I am addressing my colleague Chalánková, I agree with the overwhelming majority of what she has said here. However, I have a slightly different perspective. What is expected of this law? What awaits especially cities and municipalities that are very affected by the presence of different ghettos and so on? Stop business with poverty. Business with poverty, which is actually the legacy of former Minister Drábek. Today I attended a round table in our region, in the Karlovy Vary region. A round table, where the topic was mainly business with poverty and solutions. I'll tell you, there were words of almost hopelessness from the mayors of Sokolov, Chodov, Cheb and so on. When I said that the law probably couldn't be discussed, it was almost horrifying. Yes, I have reservations similar to Mrs Chalánková's, I've already said that. It's about merit, I've already talked about it in my last performance, the need to distract the socially necessary ones, especially the socially inadaptable ones. Don't build new apartments. I'm in favour of extending the hearing period. Yes, I am, but I don't share the skepticism that the law can't be corrected in any way. Or I'm not talking about the law itself. I'm talking about a kind of need to adopt at least a minimalist version of the bill to remedy at least the biggest problems that... basically the system that has introduced, as I say, Minister Drábek. The biggest problem is the cancellation of the housing supplement, etc. Once again, I call on you to think carefully about whether to let go of the law or to bring back the law to rework. That would mean this House will no longer accept him. [[Attention on time.]] Really, I think we should try to correct the law in some way within the extended 90-day period and adopt, as I say, at least a minimalist version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Jana Hnyková and her factual point. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u10	I'm just briefly behind the Dawn - National Coalition. Of course, we have dealt with this law, and it does not really meet the conditions that we expected from it. I think that the changes that we would put there as Members in the form of amendments, I wonder whether they will be of good quality and connected enough to affect the whole area. For us, it is simply essential that the voluntaryity of the municipalities is anchored there. Where else should this come from than the community that should provide this social housing. That's what really bothers us about the whole law. Sure, if we go back to rework, there'll be nothing. The question is, if it stays, if it doesn't turn out to be any of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u11	Thank you. Another party to the general debate is Mrs Alena Nohavová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u12	Thank you for the floor. The government has committed itself to promoting a coherent solution to social housing and the prevention of homelessness in its programming declaration. In fact, the fight against social exclusion has been declared one of its programme priorities. Despite these proclamations, the situation is actually getting worse dramatically in this government, which shows that the number of people who receive the housing supplement has tripled. The number of people who live in residential hotels or in undignified conditions has grown to 187,000. There is only six months until the parliamentary elections. The government makes such an important law at the last minute. The question is whether it is enough to go through the entire legislative process. Moreover, there is a contradiction between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which, although late but still the law submits, and the Ministry of Regional Development, which has housing policy in its sense. The whole situation with late submission and, moreover, a fundamental contradiction gives rise to the impression of actually creating an alibi for failing to comply with the programming declaration rather than trying to really solve the problem. Already in the introduction of the concept of social housing, the proposal met with great criticism, and thus the proposed proposal acknowledged fundamental changes, which are only a certain compromise between the cooperating ministries and also a representative of the government coalition. The law is currently aimed at about 150 to 120 thousand inhabitants, but this represents roughly one third of citizens who are currently at risk of poverty or social exclusion. The law is necessary, that is a fact, but if it is to be really effective, it must be clear who will be responsible for its implementation and who will guarantee the availability of housing. Will it be municipalities, cities, or one of the organizational branches of the state? According to the original proposal, it should have been the responsibility of the self-government. This was abandoned at the pressure of the Union of Towns and Municipalities and the Civic Association of Homeowners, and it will be voluntary for the municipalities. According to the draft law, social housing is to be newly provided by the State Housing Development Fund, which falls under the Ministry of Regional Development. However, this fund does not have the power to assess the social situation of applicants or to provide support for them in the form of social work. Labour offices or municipalities will have to take care of that. The above systemic shortcomings of the bill presented show that even if a miracle happens and the law is in time to discuss and enter into force, the situation of the most threatened groups of citizens in the form presented for their internal contradictions and shortcomings will not be fulfilled. Perhaps the only real and real benefit will be to avoid trade in poverty, because the law is to merge the housing fee and the housing allowance into a single dose, and so should finally end the payment of benefits to the residential hotels, i.e. really speculators, the owners of the residential hotels. [[18.40 hours]] The law is necessary in order to prevent, in particular, the housing needs of seniors, singles, disabled persons. But many of them aren't actually going to get into that social housing system at all. The law from the perspective of the KSČM therefore needs to be set up for a wider group of people, and therefore we should talk not about social housing, but about affordable housing. A number of municipalities and cities have sold out their housing fund and now they lack apartments. Not even a number of people who work honestly can reach the housing rent. They work and they can't afford rent. In a number of places of our republic, the proportion between rents in the place is common and salary in the place is common. That's why we're talking about the availability of housing. This means that people should finance their housing from their salary, which is not in many regions. The conditions generally need to be set so that housing costs do not make more than one third of the income real. There is also a question as to how it will be worth watching the price in the usual place, which will play a role in the purchase of flats under the Public Procurement Act, as it avoids an artificial increase in the prices of flats. We recommend sending the bill to further reading, but we want a clear clarification of the financing of social housing for municipalities that are involved in the system, as well as the purchase of apartments from private owners and preventing further trade in poverty, which is moving from the residential hotels to the purchase of apartments of poor regions. Living must be available to all. The right to a roof over the head must be a state guaranteed right for every citizen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u13	I thank Mrs Alena Nohavová. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Marek Benda... Which I don't see, so his application is forfeit. And the next envoy is Mr. Ludvík... [[Mr. Benda is quickly entering the hall.]] And sorry, Mr. Benda did make it after all. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u14	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Mr Last Lonely Minister, ladies and gentlemen, much has been said about the overall focus of the bill on the problems that arise. I looked at him with permission, and I think there's a lot of picanteries that, if I quote to the secretary now, we agree that the law isn't completely ripe for approval - whether it's factually correct or factually not. First of all, I would like to point out the adorableness of having a person in a housing emergency, which is a person who is without housing - in Section 4. In Section 5, we define what a person is without housing. And then all of a sudden we have that a particularly vulnerable person is the person who was the person with whom she lives permanently, in some way damaged. Well, if he's a person without a place to live, he probably doesn't live with anybody. Maybe he lives with her in a field or somewhere else, but it's hard to assume that she's the person she lives with permanently when she doesn't have any permanent housing. But I think there's gonna be a lot more of this light absurdity and it's gonna be very difficult to pull them out of the bill and point them out. In general, I fear that the proposal is incredibly of the nature of employing a lot of officials again. Individual support plans will be created. I would almost say that for every poor, miserable person we want to help, we will have one official who will take care of him, and yet, in fact, he has no chance of helping those really needy. If we look at what we want from those applicants and assume... I suppose applicants aren't supposed to be the professionals that we have in the country, too, who can suck anything out of the social system that's available to them. I don't think that's supposed to be the point. I would estimate that the typical addressee of this standard should be the older master or mistress who, for example, no longer have such orientation in today's world, a homeless person who wants to help in some way, or a person with reduced intelligence or reduced social ability to get along, who simply got into being a homeless person or a miserable person for some reason. But then I can't ask her that everything has to be handed over on a prescribed form issued by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. In case this is not submitted on this prescribed form, I can still have a special form of filing, which is in the computer system, or otherwise. in electronic form, if published by the Ministry. Well, I'm really not helping anybody. Or there will be some very well-nourished nonprofit organizations who will do nothing but process the material for the poor. Likewise, all the conditions set out there are that within eight days a person who falls once into that system must report all the changes, which I would say is a condition that is essentially difficult to meet for the normal citizen we want, and I know about many people who miss this condition in many cases - for various reasons, because you simply do not think that you have to report a change of residence or any changes to the data to the five authorities of the Czech Republic within eight days. So that's what we want from the people we think are in a social situation that they don't stand a chance of helping themselves, and they have to somehow be helped by the state, the housing fund or the community. Instead of saying "the general has the power to help his poor, let him do it, frankly, whatever he wants, he doesn't have to have market rents everywhere, we won't prosecute any mayor for not using his property enough because he'll sometimes tell some poor person: we'll let you live here for less money" so we'll invent a system that I really wouldn't want to get into to anyone in this country - from the point of view of reporting the amount of what that person has to say about himself, what he has to bear, so that anyone, a social worker, comes into his apartment, checks him, see if everything's okay there... It just becomes a basically inferior, raised animal. Only after such a really almost funny thing, which I was wondering why someone wrote them there - the rights and obligations of the landlord. Thus, among the lessor's obligations, the lessor is obliged in particular to require social rent. I don't quite know what that means, what the purpose of this provision is. I understand - but this is stated elsewhere - that the rent must be limited. But again, is it his duty to demand such rent? If I'm the mayor of the village and I say to myself, the poor guy really doesn't have what it takes to pay me, I'll forgive him for three months? This should be at best the right of the lessor, in no way the obligation of the lessor to claim such rent. [[18.50 hours]] I think we could really find a whole series of things like that. I will then suggest, if necessary, that we, apart from the committees we have already discussed, order the Constitutional Legal Committee to deal with the legal side as well, because I think that - and it was also evident that it did not pass through the Government's Legislative Council, it did not pass by some other bodies - the legal side is also pretty desperate. The last, but broader point I would like to make is a circle of beneficiaries. It is, in turn, a typical bureaucratic ptydepe in which we list all possible citizens of a Member State - a family member of a citizen who is not a citizen, has asylum or additional protection granted, a foreigner without a permanent residence. We just sort of forget to say that, in the first place, this right should be for our citizens. And that's not quite what it says. Section 19 states "is reported for permanent residence in the territory of the Czech Republic under any other legislation or permanent residence, provided that it is resident in the territory of the Czech Republic'. So he must be reported for permanent residence and, to my surprise, have a place of residence. I don't really understand it, either, because there are a number of people who have no residence, and I thought that the law should in particular think of these persons, that they should be especially those who have permanent residences reported at the office, but at the same time they live under the bridge, and we would like to help them somehow, the state, the municipalities would like to help them somehow. This may not apply to these persons because they must be resident in the territory of the Czech Republic and must also be reported here permanently if someone from abroad arrives. And let's not imagine that anyone returning from abroad is coming back from the West with hundreds of euros or dollars in their pockets. He can come back from a completely different direction. And so suddenly, the proposal does not apply to such a citizen of ours. It applies, however, to everyone we meet some international conventions. It just seems completely illogical to me. I would say that, first of all, it should be all our citizens regardless of their residence and permanent residence, if they meet any conditions, and then I can talk about whether I will grant this benefit to any other person, to any other member of the state under any conditions. But the fact that I usually calculate the European way, I will calculate all the members of all European countries and forget about my own citizens, or I will mention them there in the form that they have almost no chance of achieving it, it just seems to me that this is not the way to write laws, that the law on social housing could have, like, six paragraphs and it would be much easier for municipalities, even for the state, even for those living. It's just gonna be a huge bureaucracy that doesn't help any of the non-living in the end. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u15	I thank Mr Benda. Now with priority rights, Vice-President Jan Bartošek. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Allow me, too, to comment on the draft law on social housing and to say a few sentences. Believe that there will be nothing positive about the authors or any social security. I thank the rapporteur for her thorough and high-quality report, which she mentioned in this law. It must be said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has actually taken a very bizarre approach to the law on social housing. Instead of creating a system of affordable housing for people whose only problem is that they manage the normal demands of life, and the only problem is that they don't have enough money to pay rent in a commercial environment, and we have created a sufficient system of affordable housing with some moderate rent in the Czech Republic, so we do social cases from people who do not fall into this category at all. Social housing, yes, I support it, but social housing should be about social work in justified cases. I know it's in the law, Madam Secretary. But the group is so wide that you couldn't even agree with the Ministry of Regional Development in the target definition, how many people ultimately will be involved. How much is it? 80,000, 100,000, 360,000? Or more? You couldn't answer that. It must be said that the preparation of this law from the beginning is accompanied by competence and material disputes, particularly between the Ministry of Regional Development, the MPSV and human rights. These three ministries disagreed, and they are also the reason that, in the draft law that we have on our tables, we are essentially in the position of Members to resolve contradictions that ministers have not been able to resolve among themselves. The MPSV went by the Government's Legislative Council, so to speak, when it had only had the bill discussed in one working committee, which, moreover, recommended this law to be recast. I understand that the Ministry's position may be to open that arms wide, but is it really about the fact that we have calculated what the state budget will be? Now a little more about the factual reservations on the proposal. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs does not have the cost of social housing calculated at all. The whole "methodic" of financial difficulty is sold only by paragraph 40, where it is said that municipalities are entitled to provide funds for social housing in the form of an operating and investment subsidy. That's all. Absolutely everything, ladies and gentlemen. If we want to at least estimate how much all this is going to cost, let's try reaching into publicly available statistics. These say that the purchase price of an apartment with an area of about 50 m2 is about CZK 1.5 million in the most economical variant. Even if we stick to the lower limit of the target group, we can talk about the fact that this bill is going to come in a very rough estimate of the state budget of 150 billion, and I think that's going to be the bottom line. In the course of the law, the Ministry really gave ideas and came up with the idea that we would set up an agency and create jobs for another 600 employees. I must appreciate that the Ministry, the truth, after some explanation, has abandoned this idea. Personally, I live in some concern that we do not create so many official posts here that, ultimately, there will be no one to care for. This means, instead of going and checking the hostels hard to solve the system of available housing that we can offer to people with low income, so - if I read correctly - the hostels will lose their right to financial support for the state within six years. Okay, this could be some kind of strategy. I'm just asking where these people are going. Does this mean that all the people who are in the dormitories get social housing? Do I understand that correctly? Does that mean a person gets a social apartment within an apartment building? I could understand that. And there are certain groups of residents who need a social apartment in an emergency, a connection to housing emergencies, for example, a mother who leaves a couple as a result of domestic violence and needs social assistance, as well as emergency intervention, some debt advice, similar social services. I can imagine that those target groups are really there, for which a social apartment really is a tool to return them to normal life, but I don't know the answer to where all those who are currently in the hostels are going to go. Personally, I fear that this proposal, as it is put forward, does not fully meet the assumption of social work, which should motivate people to return to normal life and use the social system only as a trampoline when they fail in life. This system, which is designed, does not in any way motivate people to primarily try to find housing in a commercial environment with, for example, some social benefits that would equalize rent. Personally, I have to ask myself how people who have taken a mortgage on housing come to such a broad social system, or to secure mortgage payments, take two jobs, for example. [[19.00 hours]] I recognise that social housing is an instrument of social policy in justified cases, but it should not create further injustices. I am afraid this proposal makes the Czech Republic or its inhabitants more poor. In fact, if I go back to how broad the target group will be, the RIA document states to the existing one that it will involve some 130,000 people living in inadequate housing. It also adds to ordinary households in which housing costs are more than 40 percent of the deductible income, that is to say another 350 thousand people who normally live today. If I understand it correctly, the law envisages a target group of up to 480 thousand people, which is about 5 percent of our population. I may have misjudged and disprove them, but assuming I have at least half the right estimates, I'm wondering what it's gonna be like for the state budget. This is not about rejecting social housing as an instrument of social policy. I just want to know how much the state's gonna figure out, and I think it's legit! In summary, the law supports, I think, those who are not trying. Personally, I share the concern that it will lead to ghettos being created that will not escape, because it will again be people who will not be motivated and will be bound to social benefits. Instead of following the path of charities, diaconies and the non-profit sector that has experience and developing its competences and strengthening the tools that we already have, we are creating a whole new tool here. And I ask what is going to happen to the non-profit sector, which is currently working in this area. Personally, I am very sorry to say here that the Ministry has completely squandered the chance to prepare a quality law and, under the pressure of time and the forthcoming elections, is trying to resolve the situation in this way. Let the law be released for second reading, but I will support the proposal for an extension of the time limit for the hearing, and I expect the Ministry to deliver, within that time limit, a properly calculated RIA and an impact on the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u17	I thank Vice-President Bartošek. The Vice-President of ODS Jana Černochová has now signed up with priority rights. prosit, Madam Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know how you feel about discussing such a fundamental standard right now when you look around the hall, but I'm ashamed. I am ashamed that the plaintiff, Minister Marksová, is here from the ministers of this coalition government, and now Mr Pelikán has arrived. Do we really need the President of the ČSSD club to decide that we will discuss the laws today after 19 o'clock, that we Members are sitting here and that none of the ministers are bothering to be here? Nota bene from ministers who repeatedly expressed not to support this law. I am referring to the Minister of Finance Babiš, when the Ministry of Finance made it clear with the proposal that the bill does not meet the government's programming declaration, does not meet the stated objectives compared to the current situation, it certainly only increases the administrative demands of all those involved, requires an increase in the staff of both state authorities and authorities in the number of thousands of new jobs, yet it is true that the solution will continue to prevail through benefits. Can you tell me what we're doing here? And where are the ministers of this government to express their views to us that they publish in the media, but they're not sitting here right now? For this reason, I propose that the ODS interrupt this point and the following point to the presence of the Minister of Finance, Babiš, to explain to us how the Ministry of Finance, if it changed its mind, has not changed its mind on how the Ministry of Finance will build on this when this proposal is adopted, what impact it will have on the state budget. So I'm going to formally propose that we interrupt this point plus the next point, which is the norm related to this standard, to the presence of the Minister of Finance, Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u19	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. This is a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote without debate. I'm signing you all out first. Please sign up with your voting cards, and we will vote on Mrs Jana Černochová's proposal to interrupt this point and the following to the presence of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. Initiating vote on this point. Who's in? [[Objection that the number of entries is not sufficient.]] Yes, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u20	Mr Vice-President, really, the situation is even more trivial than I thought. We are not a quorum.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u21	Yes, I declare this vote misguided, and at the moment, we are not a quorum, so we will wait. [[After a while.]] And since things have gotten worse... and I don't see any arrivals here, so... [[entertainment]] Sorry, Chairman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u22	I'd like to request a five-minute recess.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u23	And I'm interrupting the meeting until 7:12 p.m. prosit, Vice-President Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u24	I suggest a two-hour break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u25	Wait! So that's 19.12. Madam Vice-President's suggestion is 21.12. That's what we're getting after 9:00. I think the meeting was only filed after 19 o'clock. [[Objection.]] Even after 9:00? [[Yes.]] So I'm gonna cut the meeting until 9:12 p.m.? I am therefore interrupting the session of the Chamber of Deputies until 21.12.00, when we will meet here and continue the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-004-071.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of the announced pause at the TOP 09 meeting, which is due to continue at 21.12.00, which would continue at 23.12., and on the basis of the agreement of the Presidents of the Members' Clubs, I am interrupting the meeting of this House by 9am, when we will proceed with paragraph 233, the capital market, the third reading. Have a good evening and good night.
