ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-010-048.u1	48. Government bill amending Act No. 455/1991 Coll., on Trade Business (Living Act), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 1014/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, Minister Marksová will state the proposal. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-010-048.u2	Mr Vice-President, Members, this amendment has been drafted in order to continue reducing the administrative burden on entrepreneurs and improving the business environment in the Czech Republic. The administrative burden on entrepreneurs shall be reduced by the removal of the obligation of entrepreneurs to notify to the Trade Office the identification details of the members of the statutory body of the legal person and the head of the branching plant of a foreign person registered in a commercial or other public register. The amendment also regulates the obstacles to the operation of the trade which arise by the decision of the Trade Authority on the sanctioned revocation of the trade licence. At the same time, the amendment meets the requirements of the business and non-business public and introduces the provision of information from the trade register in the form of mass files or assemblies with current publicly available data of entrepreneurs. It also wants to improve the legislation of the trade law following application practice e.g. Regulation of the authorisation for the issuing of market orders, ensuring the proper functioning of central registration points, defining certain terms following the wording of other legislation, etc. So I dare ask you to support this proposal and release it for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-010-048.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Martin Novotný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-010-048.u4	Colleagues and colleagues, although it is said in Latin that repetitio mater studio, that repetition is the mother of wisdom, I will not now embark on repeating the parts of the law presented by this amendment after the Minister. I would rather try to slightly argue at first reading whether the fundamental contribution of these technical details proposed is really what keeps us in very unflattering places in the long-term unflattering leaderboards of the administrative and bureaucratic burden of creating business in the Czech Republic in comparison to both the European and the world's comparison. In this sense, I consider this amendment to be too partial, and I certainly do not think that it will have any significant acceleration, for example. by removing the various obstacles to the start of the trade. Although these are rational steps, I do not believe that the acceleration element, which the Minister representing the true translators here has emphasised in his opening words, will be so significant. I'd leave the discussion details to the committee after that. The secretary basically said what the novel was about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-010-048.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. I'm not registering any applications. If so, I am ending the general debate and asking whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. In that case, I will put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the economic committee as a committee of guarantee, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 247, with 116 Members registered, for proposal 98, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see an application. In that case, since no further proposal has been made, I end the first reading of this point. Thank you. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
