ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 990/4/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 990/5. I welcome Senator Václav Láska among us. Welcome, Senator. I ask that the plaintiffs for the Senate's resolution to reject this motion first - I am sorry, Senator - first the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, your statement. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly remind you of the content of the proposed amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners and other related laws. The proposal translates into the Czech legal system two European Union directives governing the conditions of residence of third-country nationals who will be employed as seasonal workers or who will be transferred to perform a qualified position within one group. These activities are followed by the government's own proposals in the area of economic migration. These are government programmes that enable the government to respond flexibly to the current shortage of workers in the sector or in the area. The second thing that is addressed by this amendment of the law, so if I were to describe the main objective of this proposal, is to strengthen the security elements of the migration process and the mechanism to prevent the abuse of migration processes. This objective is to be achieved, for example, by changing the frequently abused provisions or by making more effective use of classified information. Next, I would like to touch on Mr Klučka's amendments, which were adopted by the Chamber of Deputies on 7 April of this year. It is these proposals by Mr Klučka that pursue the same objective, which means strengthening the role of the state, strengthening the role of the state in the area of abuse and overuse of certain processes in the context of migration. If we should express how the incompatibility of some of Mr Klučka's proposals with constitutional order, the international commitments of the Czech Republic and the law of the European Union is contested, I can state that the Ministry of the Interior is not afraid of any incompatibility of these amendments. Our experts have dealt with them, and they believe that this incompatibility is not here. On the one hand, the Government's aim in promoting this proposal, which has been passed through the Chamber of Deputies, is to promote migration, migration managed, migration economically pro-growth, and, on the other hand, to strengthen the role of the State and the possibilities of the State to combat illegal migration. For this reason, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to stick to the proposal as it has passed in the Chamber of Deputies, so I do not agree with the proposal of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u3	Thank you, Minister. Would Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová please comment on the Senate resolution? It's not like that. I am therefore opening the debate. In the debate, Senator Václav Láska will be the first to speak. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come before you to try to defend the resolution of the Senate by which the Senate rejected the bill amending the law on the residence of foreigners and certain other laws. It is a law that has been passed by a relatively large majority here in the House, on the contrary, in the Senate, both the Constitutional and the Guarantee Committee on Foreign Affairs has proposed its rejection and consequently this law has been rejected by the Senate's plenary. So where did this difference arise in view of one legislation between the lower and upper chambers? I believe there's a bit of a dispute about, at least from the discussions that I've heard here in the House and in the Senate, what the law is about, and what it's not about. What it's not about is asylum law. It's not about asylum, it's not about refugees, it's not about what we call the migration crisis today. This issue is addressed primarily by the asylum law. This law is about foreigners who study here, work, have established families. For example, there is an example of Kanaďany or Američan who teach English in our schools. It is about Mongol, ukrajinec, Vietnamcy who supplement the workforce especially by workers in factories. It is about people from post-Soviet countries who complement professional - sometimes professional staff in our hospitals. It is about korejec who are members of the highest management of foreign companies in our country. It is generally about foreigners who settled in the Czech Republic for whatever reason and started a family here. That's what this law is about. Many times and constantly and repeatedly it is said that this law, respectively. this amendment is intended to bring increased security to the Czech Republic. I dare to argue with that. I repeatedly wanted to hear some specific provision of this amendment, which brings about increased security of the Czech Republic, at the discussions on Senate committees, at the Senate plenary. I have never heard any specific provisions appointed. On the contrary, if you want to talk about the safety or danger of this modification, you can find one provision, one novelty that actually reduces the security of the Czech Republic. One of the basic security features is that if a foreigner wants to enter our territory either after work, after study, someone in our embassy needs to see him physically. Our ambassadors I've met confirm that this physical contact is first and basic control. Each ambassador's experience can reveal a discrepancy in personal contact between reality and data in the request of a stranger. And this novel comes in certain cases with the removal of this control. Some companies will be able to apply to their future employees, file and handle applications in bulk under the conditions set out in advance, without anyone seeing them from our embassy at any time. I understand that this is a reaction to a lack of labour. I understand that this is a reaction to a rather dysfunctional visa system of the Czech Republic. So I do not know whether this is the right measure or not, but in any case it is a measure that reduces the security of the Czech Republic, removing one control mechanism. In the Senate, there was further discussion about how fair and correct the legislative procedure was to which this law came into the form in which it was submitted to the Senate. This law went through a very complex commentary process. He was on the Government's Legislative Council three times, dealing with 200 different comments, until the law was given some compromise form, confirmed by the Government's resolution to which it was submitted to the House. However, we have found fundamental adjustments which have significantly affected the form of the law and the agreed compromise. An example can be given of the abolition of the supervision of prosecutors of detentions. This was a government compromise that ensured the fulfillment of our commitments to international conventions, and it was abolished. I don't want to, and no one can question the law. The Chambers of Deputies adopted amendments, however, as follows, for example, from an interview which the petitioner provided to the press, his extensive amendments were the work of the Ministry of the Interior. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior then supported the changes both here at the committee's meeting and at the meeting of the House's plenary, although the amendments go against the Government's resolution with which this bill was tabled. So, from the Senate's point of view, the Ministry of the Interior sort of bypassed the legislative process, violated the Government's resolution, and in the House, it passed what it did not pass on to the Government's Legislative Council. This brought the law, among other things, into a state where, on several points, the Ministry of Justice was officially declared inconsistent with our international obligations, with the treaties that we are bound by. From my point of view, it is not possible to adopt a law which the Ministry of Justice, as guarantor of legality, calls illegal. I would like to argue with several - I think four - points in particular - that this law is inconsistent with our international obligations and is not about the security of the Czech Republic. The first item is the removal of the supervision of prosecutors of detentions. This supervision was contained in the proposal as it came to the House, and here it was changed, it was removed. Attorneys' custody has been negotiated so that we can fulfill the obligations of international treaties that someone can supervise the detainees, someone independent, not connected with the Ministry of the Interior. The prosecutor's office was chosen, which was probably the optimal option. So now it's removed. I've heard the argument that what's the prosecutor for if he can watch it like an ombud? But please compare the ombudsman's and the state's attorney's credentials. The prosecutor has, among other things, the right to issue an order in connection with the original proposal, such as the release of a detained stranger. And what can an Ombud woman do? The Ombudsman can only write a report to the authorities concerned, that's all. They're absolutely incomparable powers. Therefore, if there is no independent supervision of detentions, we will be in conflict with international obligations. And above all, please tell me the removal of prosecutors over children, as this strengthens the security of the Czech Republic. Would those prosecutors be doing something like that against the Czech state or against security? [[15.50 hours]] The second very discussed point is the so-called elimination of the adequacy of the intervention of the Ministry of the Interior in the privacy of a foreigner. If I translate it very briefly, he sounds quite logical. It is about the fact that when a foreigner who stays in the territory of the Czech Republic commits a criminal offence, his stay will be automatically terminated. To this day, it was so that the stay could have been terminated, but it had to be seen whether the intervention, let's say this termination of the stay, was not an undue interference in his privacy, in his family circumstances. Like I said, it sounds pretty logical. Someone wants to live with us, doesn't respect our law, commits a crime, so let them go. But that's a little simplistic. Please consider what anything in the Czech Republic can be a criminal offence. Remember the squirting of billboard antennaes - a crime. If that man were a stranger, we'd banish him. Lately, shooting another person who sprayed something on the wall - a crime. Drawing a man's silhouette during a demonstration on the sidewalk - a crime. Recently, there was even a case where a crime was assessed when a man shoved his bare ass on a passing military convoy. In short, you can commit a crime very easily and it is a question of whether to automatically end such people's stay is a reasonable punishment. It's really about a situation where you can have a guy who came here as a kid, graduated here, speaks fluent Czech, has a family here, has a job here, has a girlfriend here, and doesn't have to do any of the bizarre things I've been talking about, but he can really do something stupid. He'll have a beer, get behind the wheel, crash the neighbor's fence. And we automatically send him back to a country where he doesn't have anyone anymore, he doesn't know anyone, we can even send him to a country where there's a conflict in Ukraine. For which another citizen of the Czech Republic would be reminded by you, you, you, we will impose such an essential punishment on that foreigner. It is important to say that when a person commits a crime, it is judged by the court, imposed on him a punishment, so if he is a foreigner, the court is always considering whether he will accidentally impose a sentence of expulsion, because the court judges not only guilt, but also judgment. And if he finds that the sentence of expulsion would be appropriate, he'll be ordered to do so. Likewise, the Ministry of the Interior, in the event that it examines any request for an extension of the residence of a foreigner who committed the crime, on the basis that the person committed the crime, may not prolong or terminate his stay, but has until now had to examine whether such an intervention and such punishment would be proportionate to all circumstances. He doesn't have to now. Just a few European regulations, several international treaties repeatedly say that examining the adequacy of government intervention in the privacy of a foreigner is one of the fundamental rights. And we're breaking him right here. The third thing I want to mention, which is in the present proposal, is the duty of the court to terminate the release proceedings or the detention suit in the event that the foreigner was released before the court ruling. In other words, a situation where a detained stranger brings a lawsuit against his arrest, and before the court decides, he is released. Again, you could say - yes, that's shortening, facilitating and lightening the practice of the court, after all, what else was he interested in rather than being released. He's fired, so why should we continue the proceedings? But it was the decision, virtually. the fact that he cannot reach a decision as to whether or not his detention was lawful has further consequences. If no one decides whether the detention was lawful or not, the alien cannot claim compensation for any damage, it is conditional upon the court's statement of lawlessness of access. And, among other things, a little something -- the detachment, the detention, the costs, they have to pay. It's simply a withdrawal of the right to a judicial review like thunder. Put yourself in the position of having a short-term job somewhere, I don't know, in Japan, in Korea, there for no reason, or for some petty reason, you'll be in detention for a few weeks, you'll press charges against the detention, after a few weeks they'll let you go and tell you: So, that's it. Now you don't have the right to examine whether you've been apprehended legally, you have no right to claim any damages, pay us the costs we had with you, that we've detained you, and get out of here. This is something so flagrant, contrary to fundamental rights, with fundamental legal principles, and I dare say that even with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, because the right to judicial protection here is fundamentally violated. Again, I could ask how such a provision, by excluding the courts from any matter, will contribute to increasing the security of the Czech Republic. The last example I want to mention is the newly established obligation of a foreigner to travel for any, even if only a formal error when entering or staying in the territory of the Czech Republic. Let me give you a specific example. In the Czech Republic he was a singapurian student, he studied film science here, he met Češka during his studies, he fell in love, he married her. But somehow he didn't ask for a change in the reason for his stay from study to family merger. His stay here for study purposes expired and he wants to ask for a new stay. According to current legislation he could do it in the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Interior would judge it, either it would comply with him, he would stay here or it would fail him and he would have to return. According to the new modification you have on your desk, he doesn't have that option anymore. He has to automatically go back to Singapore and ask for everything again and wait for a settlement, regardless of the fact that he has a family here, that he can have a pregnant wife here, anything. You know what a paradox is? That this duty is only imposed on him if he has a Czech wife. If he had a permanent Němka wife established in the Czech Republic, this cannot happen to him, because it is against such excesses that he is protected by European law. This means that from my point of view it is not a little bit, but enough discrimination against Czech citizens who have the audacity to marry a stranger or a woman. And the same question again. How does this measure strengthen the security of the Czech Republic? I'm coming to a conclusion. From my point of view, there is a law before you that does not increase the security of the Czech Republic. It's only a law designed to facilitate the work of Home Office officials. Is it difficult to justify the adequacy of the Ministry of the Interior's intervention in the privacy of a stranger? Then we'll cancel the duty. Is the D.O.D. losing a third of the lawsuits against arresting a stranger? Let's cancel the lawsuits. After all, from the workshop The Ministry of the Interior is also proposing that against some of his decisions a judicial review should not be allowed at all, which, fortunately, has not been approved by you. This bill, from my point of view and from the Senate's point of view, was created by an unfair legislative process, the law is contrary to the government's resolution against which it was submitted, the law is inconsistent with our international commitments, as the Ministry of Justice has officially stated. The law against which many organizations defend, not only the Committee on the Protection of the Rights of Foreigners, as you would expect, but also the Czech Bar Association, the Chamber of Commerce and many other institutions. Foreign law is amended very often, up to several times a year. There is already another amendment in the legislative process. So please, nothing will happen and we will not lose anything if this proposal, which has not succeeded, is rejected and the good that is in it, will be incorporated into a new amendment, which is already being prepared. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u5	Thank you, Mr. Senator. The next party to the debate is Senator Schwarz. Excuse me, Mr. Schwarz.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u6	I've already defected. I don't even know. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to draw your attention to the Senator - I don't even know if I can speak to him. I understand why he mentioned the facts of the stay and the things here, but I would like to point out that he was precisely stating what most of my colleagues and I do not imagine. He described crime and said it was all petty. He said that if students don't do something -- well, since I'm a student here, I know I'm in a country where the law applies, I have to have all the permits under the law. Forgetting is sad, but there are laws. Then if I'm pointing my ass at anyone, Senator -- you called it ass like I did -- it's a riot. If I paint something on someone's facade, it's hurting someone else's stuff. Well, don't be mad. We shouldn't let strangers do this if they want to live here. I wouldn't dare in a foreign country, not even in our country. So I'm surprised at the way you stood up, described the crime, and you said it was petty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. I'm sorry I promoted him to the upper chamber. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one checks in, the debate... Excuse me, MP Klučka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I want to introduce myself to the Senator through the Vice-President. I am the living person who took the liberty of making those amendments. I'm the one you don't think was serious in the legislative process. I am the one who, in a way, violated the Government's resolution. Well, those are very serious accusations. Very serious accusations. And I must tell you that our Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies deal with all these matters. I do not know what the Rules of Procedure of the Senate are, but our Rules of Procedure - everything I have done, you will find in it. It's no problem. In any case - in the first second, third reading of the bill in the Chamber of Deputies. It is a pity that none of the senators had the desire to talk about it, to say what the reasons for this approach were. I wasn't just dealing with the current situation. I'm dealing with the future. That's security prevention. That's not the repression someone thinks the question is introduced into that law. Really safety prevention. And the moments will come, Mr Senator, through Mr President, when you will remember these words. And they won't be far. Because those processes that relate to the future of the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic - I will not talk about asylum - stay in the Czech Republic will be far, far more complex and will bring even greater complications, which will lead us again to the fact that the law must be amended. The last thing I want to stress. Safety audit of the Czech Republic. Please, if you haven't read it, please look into it. Two sides. Two parties to this audit are involved in this area. What I have done in the framework of the amendment of the law is fully identified with the conclusions that are in the audit. I thank all those who, at the third reading - and it was 148 Members - understood these things and approved this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u9	I thank Mr Klučka. Mr. Senator Václav Láska requests the floor. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u10	Thank you. I'm just gonna react briefly. Let's not mix legal terms. One legal term is guilt, the other legal term is punishment. If anyone breaks legislation, including criminal law, he'll be found guilty and I haven't spoken to him, and I've never questioned it. I'm only talking about the adequacy of the sentence. And really compare when a Czech citizen gets probation or financial punishment for what, a third-country citizen gets punishment in the form that he has to leave his family, he has to leave his friends and he has to go back to a country where he doesn't live. So it's about the proportionality of the sentence, not the guilt. Laws must be respected. Those who fail to keep them, will be found guilty, will be punished. But the punishment should be appropriate. About the legislative process. I'm a lawyer, so I know there's a written law - and every law has a reason, some purpose. And I stand by my legal opinion that the procedure by which amendments were tabled, which were rejected by the Ministry of the Interior or not passed at the Legislative Council of the Government, was a spirit and the intention of the law to be embraced was violated. That's my point. It's nothing personal, it's about the interpretation of the law, about the interpretation of the law. And the last reaction. I heard again that those amendments were about security prevention. I would like to explain how the fact that the prosecutors will not be able to supervise the children strengthens the security features. How the fact that you want to remove the supervision of independent courts over the decisions of the Ministry of the Interior strengthens security features. I'm trying to answer these questions with great imagination, but I really can't find the answer. This has nothing to do with increasing the security of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u11	Thank you. Now two factual points. First, Mr Milan Šarapatka, then Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention very briefly the moment that the Senator has already said here, and this is the possibility of applying for visas through the employer's personnel unions. I consider this possibility completely impractical, and indeed not safe. Because consular officials in the embassy are highly qualified people who are trained to be such a first filter and to recognize real or real applicants from applicants who have unfair intentions. So I would really warn against any personnel clerk who, for a very small pain, would be willing to put on the list of those who receive a visa, anyone, being entitled to do something like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u13	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa and his factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u14	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Very briefly. A fellow senator here presumes how the courts will decide. The court is independent. Neither of us here knows how the court will judge the case. And this House is here to protect citizens of the Czech Republic and the interests of the Czech Republic. I voted for the law before he went to the House, and I'm going to vote for it again. [[The Senate?]] And I'm going to vote for him because I'm leaning towards it - our country, our rules. We're here to make the rules, and if this House has decided that the rules will be that way, that's what they'll be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u15	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. Mr. Ivan Gabal. Mr. Ambassador, a point of fact? Really. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u16	Thank you. I just wanted to point out to my colleagues that the Senate is watching over the same Constitution, the same legislation, and the same government. If anyone here at the House feels we have a patent on the Constitution and the legislation for reason, then he doesn't understand why we have the Senate. So I wanted to thank the senators. We cannot do what we want in the field of agendas and rights that are common, for example in European terms. We just can't. That's why we have superior constitutional elements. And then just for real. If we help and invite someone to graduate here, and then we fire him for five years, if he wants to work here and live, then we hurt ourselves. And this law is hurting us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u17	Thank you. President Stanjura with a point of order. After that, Mr Plzák, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u18	Now that we have such a brief educational window where we tell ourselves such truths as that in the House we defend the interests of people and strong institutions, only a minor correction for Mr Gabal about how you said the Senate is watching over the Constitution. He's watching over the Constitution, I agree. But the Senate doesn't watch over the government. The government only answers to the Chamber of Deputies, us. I didn't vote for this government, I didn't give her confidence, unlike you. And I don't think there's much point in saying such general truths here. This is some kind of material content dispute. Each party gives its arguments and tries to get the majority for those of its arguments. And that's perfectly okay, and it happens on every bill. Well, I'd like my colleagues to take those big words down a little bit and not think that we're watching over the Constitution and colleagues on the street next door, too. I'm the one who thinks it's obvious. Only the government answers to the Chamber of Deputies, not the Senate. I'm not criticizing it, it's just a fact that comes from our constitutional order. But the important point that has been made here, which distinguishes euro-realists like us, from those euro-optimists who still have these empty "we want to be in the hard core, I want to go in the fast lane" passwords, and no one knows what it is. And you're right. The amount of regulations that come to us is incredible. Some say it's okay -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u19	I'll take the liberty, Mr. Chairman, of regulating too. I'll ask my colleagues in the room for silence. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u20	Well, you took eight seconds from me, which is a fairly significant part of 120, almost 8 percent of my speech. And now I don't want to react if you took--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u21	I'll pay you back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u22	It's okay. I just want us to be this critical of all the proposals that come from Brussels. To be able to distinguish between those essential regulations, where I think it makes sense to do some common things at European level, and those that are irrelevant. You'll see, when there's a construction law, as we hear it again - infringement, threatens us, stops us from making money... I'd like to be wrong. We'll wait for the debate at the next point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u23	Thank you. Mr Plzák and his factual point, after which Mr Gabal and his factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, I would also make a point of fact about my colleague Gabala. I would like to say that while the House voted for this law by a substantial majority of 148 votes, the Senate rejected it, I think, by the majority of two votes. Isn't that right? [[He's turning to the senator.]] jo. So about the vigil of the Senate - we must also see what part of the House voted for it and which rejected it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u25	Thank you. Mr Gabal and his factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u26	Thank you. From a purely constitutional point of view, if most are one vote or 140 votes, it makes no difference. But I wanted to point out one thing. Senators, too, have the right to point out that the Government has acted illogically against this in rejecting the Legislative Council. I think that's a perfectly legitimate argument. And if the Senate has led us to explore the matter further, and it tells us its comments, then we should hear them out, not question them. And one last thing. We will monitor the Brexit negotiations between the European Union and Great Britain with interest and what will be the position of our citizens in the finals as foreigners from third countries. That will be very informative. Because then we will have no more Union benefits, no more standards, no more legislation, but we will be exactly foreigners from third countries. Our children who want to work there, collect strawberries or study universities will feel what we're doing here for those from third countries at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u27	President Stanjura and his point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman. After him, Mr. Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u28	So when some are choosing the UK as an enemy - I am not one of them, and our political party is not - I just want to remind you who opened the markets, the labour market, the citizens of the Czech Republic on the first day after the accession of the Czech Republic to the European Union and who have Evropan the entry of Czech citizens into their labour market for seven years. Aren't they the ones who have the most full mouth of how freedom of movement is supposed to be? And they've been blocking it for seven years! Let's not forget that! And in the UK, our citizens have been able to function since day one. Let's not forget that either. [[Let's hear it for a number of Members across the hall.]] To be fair, they freely made their choice. But I have spoken because of the sentence said by Mr Gabal and which unfortunately is typical of this government - we will watch the Brexit process. Well, I'm afraid this government is just watching. Instead of hearing here: our government wants to enforce this on the issue of brexit, because these are Czech national interests... But we will follow it with Mr Gabal's words!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u29	Thank you. We will now follow the speech on Mr Chalup's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u30	Thank you for the floor. I couldn't resist what was just said here. I'll follow up on my colleague through you. Yes. I was talking to Ambassador Schapir. They all understand - the humanitarian crisis. I see it as a security crisis. And to this day, the European Union has not taken care of the security of the Schengen area. That's the problem. And that's why we have to make laws here to protect our own people and this country from those who have come here in any way, no one is stopping it until today, etc. As far as the UK is concerned, this is not the Minister of Foreign Affairs who has openly volunteered to punish Britain for Brexit. I am absolutely not inclined to do this. On the contrary! I think that we must have very good bilateral relations with Great Britain regardless of what the European Union says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u31	Thank you. Mr Jiří Zlatuška and his point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u32	Mr President, after all, I would like to add to the reservations that have been raised here, by pointing out what I have already said in this law. We are self-inflicted at the moment when we are preparing to have qualified workers working decently here, e.g. in universities. If we complain about how people are not from abroad, one reason is the way we treat family members. The fact that someone else has been restricting the common market for a long time is not why we should harm ourselves. And I suspect I said that at the first hearing: the danger we're creating ourselves by doing this is worse than the illusionary danger from migrants.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u33	Thank you, honourable Member. With priority rights, Mr. Home Secretary. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to do this anymore, and I did not want to politicize the subject, and I did not want to continue to debate it. But don't be mad at me, I have to respond to some things. For God's sake, we have an interest in economic migration, growth migration, migration from countries that are culturally, religiously, linguistically close to us. For this, the government creates programs for the arrival of employees from Ukraine and other countries. But the migration must be, my friends, controlled, coordinated. If you look at some areas of the Czech Republic, be it Mladáboleslavsko, Kvasiny and others, where 1,500 places were planned, suddenly there are 6,000 seats and 20,000 more in subsequent operations. There's no infrastructure, there's no adapted conditions, and it's not just the area that's suffering from it, it's also the aliens who work there. And it creates enormous tensions in society. If this migration is supposed to be, it's supposed to be managed. Who here wants to punish an honest stranger who wants to work here? There are only tools if these people do not comply with the law of the Czech Republic. Nothing more, nothing less. I am fascinated by the debate on mandatory quotas at a time when we do not protect Schengen. I am fascinated by France's debate about the disobedient V4. When I think of who bombed Libya to create something better, and what the security problem of Libya today is for the whole European Union, I would always sweep my own doorstep, ladies and gentlemen. This law, as it was conceived, was supplemented by Mr Klučka, who, at his request, the Ministry of the Interior helped complete his proposals - and we always do the same. And I am very glad that Mr. Klučka turned to us and that he had the courage to load these things. And through Mr President to Senator Lásek. Senator, I'm sorry, but the Chamber of Deputies is a phenomenon. We too have the right to stick to the Rules of Procedure. We too have the right in the legislative process in the House to act precisely according to the rules that are here. And I'd like you to say that he's been circling the legislative process. He wasn't. It was precisely in terms of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Like us, we don't lecture the Senate, so please don't lecture the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u35	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Zdeněk Soukup. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I will address the senator through you. Mr. Senator, it has actually been said here that it is not, as Mr. Chovanec said, a decent stranger, but it is basically those who violate the law in our country. First of all. Two. You're arguing that we're violating some principles, some rules, some deals and so on. Who was it that broke the first Dublin protocols, the Treaty of Amsterdam, and so on? Since the migration began, the migration wave has broken all the principles, all the agreements that existed here. Today, in our security situation, it is not advisable to bow to the rules that some may have developed 75 years ago after World War II. They don't like to bow. Security needs to be ensured. And perhaps we should ask ourselves whether these rules, these principles, these laws, the Constitution and international agreements should be changed in some way. I was here a while ago hosting a conference that I invited a number of constitutional lawyers to. And these are the very things that I'm talking about, very strongly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u37	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. The senator is still reporting for the debate. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u38	Thank you. I'll only respond to one thing. Honestly, half of the debate I heard was not about this law. But there's one thing I want to respond to. Do you feel I've been lecturing you? Did I tell you to do something different? I've come to defend our own opinion, the Senate's opinion, my opinion. I said what I thought. Just because you don't agree doesn't mean I'm afraid to say it to your face. I have a different opinion, and it is my right to tell you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u39	If no one else applies to the debate, this is not the case, I am ending the debate. Excuse me, Madam. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u40	Thank you. I think perhaps Mr. Senator Láska could read the record of his performance, when he actually attacked the Chamber of Deputies in a very picky way here, that we were violating the legislative process. That's not true. It has already been said here by colleague Klučka and the Minister of the Interior Chovanec that the procedure has been followed in this case completely in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. So, Senator, I want you to apologize to us with this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u41	I hope that not only in this case has it been in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. With a factual remark, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Through you, Mr Vice-President, I will address the senator. Mr. Senator, with all due respect, you're not here to defend your opinion in front of us. That's what you were supposed to do in the Senate. You're here to defend the Senate's opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u43	I ask again who else is reporting for the debate. Mr. Senator. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u44	I'm sorry, but it would be rude and cowardly if I didn't respond to the call that was addressed to me. I said my opinion here. I stand by that opinion. In the discussion of this law, in my opinion, he was to circumvent the legislative process as foreseen in the Constitution Act. It's my opinion. Should I really apologize for having an opinion? I'm sorry for not apologizing to you. I stand by my opinion, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u45	Mr. Chairman Stanjura. After that, Mr. Benda. Both factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u46	It's not exactly easy. The senator himself was a hero because he heroically told the House what he thought. All of us who go to the microphone, say and keep quiet about what we think, we're probably not as heroic as you are, Senator. I don't take your point. But it's completely flawed, it's not substantiated, it's not a fact. I think it's 16.15. Look at the watch. And I'm going to say it heroically on the microphone and stand up for myself, and I'm not going to apologize to you because it's 16.15 -- and you can all claim it's 16.25 because you've passed the clock and somehow you've moved them. I think it's 16.15. [[It's 16.25.]] Try to tell us exactly what he was in for bypassing the legislative process. We do not have the right to propose amendments? Do we or don't we? A simple question, I'd like an answer. Do we have the right to vote on amendments? Yes or no? A simple question, please, a simple answer. And that's it. And if you answer yes twice, yes, you'll convince yourself that your opinion is completely wrong, you don't have to apologize. But now that we have the educational window, we have given you a little bit of instruction on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u47	Mr Benda and his point of order. The Member cancels the factual remark. Who else is reporting for the debate? Mr. Senator. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u48	I wouldn't have dragged it out, but when you challenge me, it would be indecent not to react. I answered your question in the written report submitted by the rapporteur here. And I even answered it in my opening words. I said explicitly: no one, not even me, is questioning the right of the House to vote and to table amendments. That's what I said. So the answer to your question is yes twice. You have the right to propose, you have the right to discuss. But I'm blaming the fact that the proposal was processed and initiated from my point of view by the Ministry of the Interior. As a result, what has not been settled at the Legislative Council of the Government, which has not been settled in commemorative proceedings, has passed into the law, and the Ministry of Justice, as a guarantor of legality, identifies some passages of this law as illegal and inconsistent with our international obligations. That's my answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u49	With a factual remark, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Then the Minister. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u50	Thank you for the floor. I shall repeat this once more, by your means, Mr President, to Mr Senator. [[In an elevated voice.]] You're not here to express your subjective views! Do this to the Senate in accordance with its Rules of Procedure. When you are a Member, then it will be completely legitimate and make your subjective views known here. I call on you to proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and present here only a substantive position on this bill, as it corresponds to the expression of will done in the Senate! That's it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u51	With a point of fact, the Minister, Mr Benda after him, Mr Benešík after him, Mr Zlatuška after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u52	I would therefore, through Mr President, completely clarify what the Senator means. Mr. Senator, through Mr. President, do you really think that the evil Ministry of the Interior has convinced the not-quite-right colleague Klučka, whom I appreciate, together, to drink a roll of 144 other unworthy Members of Parliament? I don't think so. There's a lot of people with their own opinions sitting here, everybody knew what they were voting for. And all those who voted on it stand by it. And they knew exactly what they were voting for. We have not missed anything, we have not persuaded anyone, only and only helped Mr Klučka technically with his proposals. And that's how we do it every time someone asks us to do it, and we'll do it in the future, whether the Senate likes it or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u53	Mr. Marek Benda. After that, Mr Benešík, Mr Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u54	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, Mr Senator, I was extremely surprised, and that is why I applied to respond if it was said that the Ministry of Justice was saying something about this proposal. I'm sorry the Minister of Justice isn't here, I'm even in the mood to propose an interruption until he's here. Well, no, or the Home Secretary speaks for the government, then I suppose if he's a translator, he says for the government: we think it's okay. But it's impossible to say, the Justice Department says... I'm desperately upset by the debate that it's not about the substance of the matter, that there's not even one second here to say what's unconstitutional, what's wrong there, but it's still going to be shown: the legislative process and it has prepared it and it hasn't been prepared, and the Legislative Council of the Government has discussed or discussed... Let's talk about what's potentially right or wrong there. But I don't think it's possible for a senator to stand here and say, "The Justice Department is thinking something." And if that's what he's saying, I want the Justice Minister to be there, and he's gonna come out and say, "The Justice Department is thinking something or the Ministry isn't thinking anything." So, at the end of the debate, I propose to interrupt the presence of the Minister of Justice, because I consider it necessary that the views of the Justice Department are not presented here through the senators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u55	This is a procedural proposal which, at the end of the debate, thank you. So now, Mr Benešík with a de facto, after which Mr Zlatuška, the Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u56	Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am basically - or I want to speak with the same thought because it was said that the passage that came into this law by the amendment is at least problematic in the eyes of the Ministry of Justice. So I would also like to know before my final decision the opinion of the Ministry of Justice. And the only way we're gonna do that is if the Minister comes and tells us his reservations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u57	Thank you. This will be voted on by Mr Benda. Mr Zlatuška and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u58	As a memoir, I would like to oppose Mr Stupčuk in the fact that the senators have no right to present their own views here. Here's the idea that a senator should come here to the Chamber of Deputies to defend the Senate version and add his own opinion, this idea was once tried by Senator Julínek at the time I was in the Senate against me. He made a special item at the Senate meeting in which the ODS, which had a very strong representation in the Senate at the time, tried to create something like a blacklist of senators, which would be forbidden to go to the Chamber of Deputies and the House of Deputies to report on it next time. In the end, they admitted that this was way over the line, even though everyone sat there patiently until late in the evening and lost some hopefully hockey game thanks to it. And all that went on is that the senators sent to the Chamber of Deputies must agree to agree to present the opinion they have here. But part of the Senate hearing back then was clearly that the senators had the right to express their own views here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u59	Thank you. Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u60	I would once again like to quote part of my presentation report. On the objection of the incompatibility of some of Mr Klučka's proposals with constitutional order, international obligations of the Czech Republic and European Union law, I can state that the Ministry of the Interior has dealt very closely with the possible incompatibility of these proposals and has concluded that Mr Klučka's proposals are compatible with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic as well as with the international obligations of the Czech Republic and also with the law of the European Union. I suppose if Minister Pelikán felt it was a big need, a big problem, he's sitting here right now. The fact that that point is being discussed as the first point of today's meeting would be sitting here defending that opinion. I don't have the information. Our experts say this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u61	Thank you. That was the last one for the debate so far. If no one else checks in, I'm looking left, right... I am definitely ending the debate - before the end of the debate, sorry. So I'm not done with the debate, first I'm going to call our colleagues from the lobby. We will vote on Mr Benda's proposal to interrupt this point in the presence of the Minister of Justice. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. I am opening the vote on the motion to interrupt this item in the presence of the Minister of Justice. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 32 vote, 134 Members and Members registered, for 51, against 65. The motion was not accepted. That was the vote on the proposal, so now - and I will not finish the debate - a colleague of Stanjura is still reporting. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u62	I know your colleague was reading the papers at the beginning of the meeting, could you remind us where Minister Pelikán is? I'm kind of wondering why he's not here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u63	I'll find it, if you don't mind. Minister Pelikán is excused for business reasons. Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u64	Well, I think we have the answer to our question. If the Justice Department didn't agree to this, they saw lawlessness and I don't know what the senator was saying, surely the minister from the ministry - it's not that far away - he flew in, he'd come, he'd be passionately defending his ministry's opinion, and he'd be passionately pointing us out that we're about to make some wrong move. Since he's not here, maybe he listens to us at the Ministry, I say hello. I don't think it's that simple, Minister, I have nothing, so I'm staying in the house, I'm not going anywhere. You see, today you could have been involved in this debate and you missed it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u65	Mr. Senator again. You don't have the final word, only the plaintiffs or the rapporteur. Please, Senator, you have the floor so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u66	Thank you. I think the debate on whether the senator can say his opinion in the House's defense of the Senate's conclusions, or not, is interesting, I'll take a look at it, you kind of put me in the pliers here when two performances came right after each other. One of the things that made it explicit for me to say my own private opinion here, and then the Minister asked me to say my own private opinion about the House's work. That goes against each other, and I can only grant one request. Not both of them. The important thing is, when I was operating here in the opinion of the Justice Department, please, I officially approached the Justice Department to give me my opinion on this law. And I received a reply dated 25 May 2017, signed by Mgr Petr Jäger, Deputy Director for the Management of the Department of International and Constitutional Law of the Ministry of Justice, where several points are listed and justified, contrary to what regulations and with which international conventions they are. Again, in my written report, I have explicitly given you all these contradictions. And as I was called upon, or as Mr Benda was called upon, to discuss the substance of the matter, what and with which legislation is contrary, I said it here in my introductory words. But just to be safe, I'll repeat: The elimination of the supervision of prosecutors of detentions is contrary to international obligations for independent control of detention facilities. The assessment of the adequacy of the intervention of the Ministry of Interior in the private circumstances of foreigners is contrary to several laws, including the Convention, which, on the contrary, always commands the intervention of the State authority in the rights of foreigners to assess their adequacy. The obligation to terminate proceedings against collateral in the event of a foreigner being released is a violation of the right to a fair trial. That's a violation of the Constitution. And the obligation to travel in the event of formal misconduct, which then prevents the family from merging, is against several international agreements that protect the family's merging. [[16.40 hours]] It is in the written report that I have submitted to the House, which you have specifically mentioned, including all the articles and sections which are contrary to these proposals. So at least at the beginning of the very meritorically held to the presentation of the proposal and I really held to the merit of the thing. The fact that there was a debate about brexit and other things, and who prevented who from accessing the market, that was no longer my job. I've really held on to the merit of things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u67	Thank you. President Stanjura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u68	First of all, I think the senator has a free choice of words, and it's up to him what he says here. The fact that he has to present the Senate's opinion at the beginning is clear. Then, in my opinion, he can be involved in the debate as he wishes. Sometimes it's convenient. Sometimes he gets support for the House version by performing, as I think happened in this case. But another thing. Let's take a look at the facts. In April, April 5, the government of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka met in the presence of Minister of Justice Pelikán. It was part of the government's agenda for information, that is the part that concerns a lot of points, but they are not actually mentioned in the government unless one of the members of the government asks for that point to be discussed and, eventually, a debate has been made and the government has been able to react somehow. On 5 April, the initiative of the Council of the Government on Human Rights was included in the section for information pointing out the possible discrepancy between the four amendments proposed by Mr Klučka with EU law, constitutional order, international obligations of the Czech Republic. What did Minister Pelikán do? He kept his He didn't use his right to propose to his colleagues in the government: let's talk about it, let's put it in the debate section, I want to say here for my ministry that I see the problem as well as the Human Rights Council. Well, I find it rather laxative. The moment I have constitutional options, I'm not gonna use them, and then, I'm sorry, some clerk writes this. I'm not questioning it. Not even the opinion of the person who signed off on it. But we don't respond to the union directors. We are responsible for the government as a whole. And the Minister of Justice did not take advantage of the opportunity to discuss this issue at government level. And I repeat, if he was present, he could tell us on the microphone. And in order to enable him to do so, and at the same time not to block today's negotiations, I'm giving a procedural suggestion that we interrupt this point for 35 minutes, that it will also ride a bike from the Ministry of Justice from the 2nd to here, even on a bike, in case there is a major traffic problem. [[Fun in the hall.]] The minister likes to take pictures on the bike, remember. And in the meantime, we can start discussing the building bill, and after 35 minutes, we can go back to questioning the Minister and decide to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u69	Am I to take this as an official motion for an interruption that you want to vote on, or are you asking for a recess as club chairman?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u70	No, no, no. I told you not to block the House meeting, I'm giving a procedural motion to interrupt this point for 35 minutes, so if we approve, we can start discussing item number 3 and then we can come back after 35 minutes. And I'm sure the Minister of Bicyclist will make it by then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u71	Absolutely. So there's a procedural motion to interrupt this point for 35 minutes and I'll put it to a vote. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote to suspend this point for 35 minutes. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favor of interrupting for 35 minutes, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 33, registered 138 Members and Members, for 43, against 61. The motion was not accepted. So we will continue to discuss this point. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one really applies to the debate, I am done with the debate. I am asking about the final words of the appellant or the rapporteur, as appropriate. The rapporteur wants to have the final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u72	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I understand that we are shortly before the elections, but not only in this law, I do not think that we are happy to measure here who has it bigger. [[Fun and reactions in the hall. Member Jakubčík.]] I don't think it's a good idea to provoke animosity between chambers, to provoke pseudo-controversy between members of the government. We should be talking about the law that we are discussing, the law that was adopted by a huge majority of votes in the House, and the law that was rejected by the Senate by a majority instead of wondering why, so here we are discussing completely representative topics and causing panic by spreading alarm reports on the danger of migration. I would just like to recommend that, at least, that you read the ex post when you vote for this law, so that you learn that it does not concern even those who may come here someday, but rather those who are here and who are working in our society in some way without major problems. The Czech Republic does not have poor asylum and foreign legislation. That is why, at the beginning of this proposal, which attracts a little bit of screws, of course, I supported its acceptance. But I think that, especially after the adoption of Mr Klučka's extensive amendment - and I don't care who actually drafted it - we should also look at the proposal from those views which, although not in all cases in a happy way, the Senator has pointed out. I do not recommend to the House the adoption of this bill in the version approved by the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-002-001.u73	Thank you for the final words of the rapporteur. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed. Please - and the number of votes is already set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House press 990/4." Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 34, 145 Members and Members registered, for 113, against 9. The bill was passed. [[A round of applause for Members of the ČSSD and YES.]] I thank both the Senator and the rapporteur, and I conclude on this point. The next item is:
