ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u1	340. Information of the Prime Minister on measures against misuse of reinsurance orders by the Financial Administration We discussed this point on Wednesday, 17 May, when we also interrupted the general debate. The rapporteur, Mr Martin Plíšek, has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table, the Prime Minister is present and we will continue with the interrupted debate, namely that the factual point is Mr Ivan Pilný and Mr Hájek. I'm asking if my colleagues insist on these factual remarks. Mr. Pilný? [[Mr Pilný expresses his interest only in the speech in the debate.]] I haven't figured that out yet. I've got some real points now. čili it does not insist on a factual point, and in the debate, Mr Pilný is duly registered. In that case, Mr Hájek is not here, so his application is forfeit, and I can therefore give the floor to the proper application to Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I'm not going to stretch out too much, I just wasn't sure I could make it in two minutes. But I'm sure it won't take more than three or four minutes. First thing. I've been accused that I don't know that hedge orders have existed since the early 1990s. Of course, I know that, and if it were possible to look at it, or the one who blamed me, Mr Stanjura, if he looked at the log, it clearly states that I was referring to the fact that the institute of the freezing order was introduced into Section 103 of the VAT Act by an amendment prepared by the Ministry of Finance in 2011. It can be verified in the log, as I have spoken. The second thing about the factual remark was quoted here was the very unfortunate case of a company that was liquidated. It happened in a year when, perhaps, Minister Babiš was not yet the Minister of Finance. I would just like to reiterate that the figures, the macro-numbers that have been quoted here several times, that means that seven defective proposals have been found in the administrative court, which the administrative court has thus returned, maybe there have been more, maybe it is also true that at the same time there are a lot more of those orders, which I think is irrelevant, because the macro-numbers, and I agree with that, do not quite convey the substance of the matter, because the financial administration is quite rightly afraid of everyone, so maybe there could be more complaints. That means I've decided that if I'm appointed Minister of Finance, I'll do two things. Firstly, I will ask the Director of the Financial Administration to be more careful in contact with the media, because some of his remarks were quite unfortunate. Secondly, although I will, and I may not be called upon to do this, to respect the independence of the Financial Administration, and in no way will I intervene in any way in its actions, of course I will respect that and it is the law, I may not be called upon to do so, but at the same time I will also ask the Director-General of the Financial Administration, in whom I have full confidence, and in no way intend to call him off or manipulate him in any way, in order to investigate on the basis of open cases which neither the Minister nor Members have access to, in order to see if it would be possible to carry out the shooter of the law, which is absolutely justified, that is a hedging order, because there is really no way to wait for the termination of the proceedings, because there is really nothing to find there, if there is no incentive to adjust any methodology so that it can actually fulfil the letter of the law and spirit of the law above all, and not to be liquid. There may be cases like this. And I've been pointed out that one such case is enough and he's unhappy. I know this better than those who argued with it yesterday, on television, Mr. Plíšek, because I, unlike him, have been in business for many years and I know what these things mean. So I don't need anyone to remind me that this is a major problem for the company and that this liquidation shouldn't be in any way. That's all I'm gonna do. And I think that it is completely unnecessary for the Chamber of Deputies to adopt any resolution, because I, if I am appointed Minister of Finance, will simply act as I have just overshot. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u3	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. Now Mr Michal Kučera's factual remark and Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u4	Well, thank you for your word. I'm just going to make an easy speech with my foreman. I don't think the Director of the Financial Administration has just had unfortunate media appearances. Yes, he really did. But the main problem is the actual actions of the Director of Financial Administration, and that is the fundamental problem. If the future finance minister only wants to deal with media performances, he says nothing but that he just wants to sweep everything under the carpet again. That's all it is. He'll say, Mr. Director, don't get off, don't make it sound bad, do as you do today. And I can't really relate to that. And secondly, I would just like to say the eternal reminder of who had been in business for a long time. Please, nicely, we're not here on any union or any deputies of guilds. This is the Chamber of Deputies and someone has been operating for a long time, someone has been running the city for a long time, someone has been in business for a long time, or someone hasn't worked for a long time. But we've all been elected Members here, and we're all equal here. So please let's not throw around who's been doing business here for how long and who has or doesn't have the right to comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u5	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. Another factual point by Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Members of the TOP 09 seem to have a special hearing problem. Because just as I had to repeat to Mr Plíšek yesterday what I intend to do, I will repeat it again. I wasn't just talking about correcting the media statement from the Director of the Financial Administration, but I was very specific about what I'm going to ask him to look at the cases, etc., and I clearly outlined the strategy. I am sorry that in this hall - perhaps it does not reach the right hand side. But that's not what I said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u7	Thank you. One more point of fact. Not anymore, then we can continue with Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u8	Thank you for the floor. I'm a little surprised. The chairman of the Economic Committee is not usually petty enough to quote from the tapestry and make a fool of his fellow Members. I know exactly what it is. I said right after in that sentence: I know you were talking about the VAT amendment. So I don't know why you hit me on the head when I said it in my act and I admitted it. That's all. But, of course, that's not why I volunteered, and I'm not that petty to play with the Steno Record. I was a little interested in that blind trust with the Chairman of the Economic Committee. I don't want words from you, I speak for the Civil Democrats, that you'll call someone off the day after you get in. But then I'll give you two specific questions that I'll want answers for when you're that minister. Not today, because I don't think it's dignified. The House is to control the government and ministers and not individual members of the House. I think that's a completely different case. First question. Relax, look at the full record of the Committee's discussions on koruna bonds and please focus not on media comments, but on the comments made by the Director-General of the Financial Administration on the Committee's budget, when our questions and suggestions on whether to control koruna bonds answer quite clearly that he does not know how, he does not have an instrument. Several times. I'm sure there's an audio recording on the tape, I suppose. Yesterday I saw the media appearance of the Chief of Financial Administration when he said: we're checking all 1,500 or as many issuers as he said. Now I'm sorry about the number, I don't think it's accurate. That's two months apart, and two months ago, they didn't know how and they didn't have any tools. He said, give me some advice, tell me how, maybe I'll do it. Some members of the Budget Committee have tried to advise him. Not me, I was just asking questions. That's a big contradiction. [[13.10 hours]] The second thing I would ask you to do if you were appointed Minister of Finance. Take pustit look at the press conference that the current finance minister Andrej Babiš says that the Financial Administration is acting inhumane and contrary to common sense. It was a press conference to forgive fines for administrative misconduct, and I note administrative errors in the submission of inspection reports, especially the first ones. Unfortunately, according to reports from my electoral region, I have to confirm that entrepreneurs are going to describe it to me whole, they're going to give me documents, but they don't want it to be said to be identified on a microphone that they're afraid of the Financial Administration. It's not a healthy condition. When I was here criticizing the particular case you mentioned, I knew it was in a different period than Minister Babiš. I wasn't talking about Minister Babiš either, so I don't know why you're defending him. The fact that the state liquidated this company is not entirely important who was the Minister of Finance at the time. Either we're talking about the state misstepping, misbehaving. If we agree on that, and I know it was December 2013, and I know that the government started in January 2014. This is what I want to show you that this is not a political attack on a particular policy, but a serious problem. After my Tuesday performance, on Tuesday I think we discussed it, on Wednesday he received an email from a person from such an affected company, where it is really happening in these months. I'm not gonna say the county or the company because I don't have permission from him, but in a simple way. All of a sudden, a warrant, the same day of appeal, the same day of refusal of appeal. Nothing has happened until today, it's been about eight months, all the employees have been fired. Another particular case. I don't know the details. I'm just thinking that... I was talking about it, that one of the incentives should be that, for example, the provision of funds should be limited by some reasonable time. It's an unlimited time tonight. Sometimes it's faster. I'm pointing out it's not a big company. I only have one reading. From that one piece of information, I'd say it's either a micro-business or a small business. But, of course, I wasn't looking at this. So the problem is very serious. The second question, I will return to that, for Mr Pilný, when he is in office. How does it implement media communications? And there was Andrej Babiš, his deputy, standing there Mr. Managing Director of the Financial Administration, saying: we will forgive two tickets for 2016 and one ticket for 2017. It's been months. At least nothing happened in our region except that the entrepreneurs paid another thousand crowns because they had to apply for debt again. It's been weeks again. So let's talk about somebody doing PR. Normal would be when it's announced at the press conference to resolve it within a unit of days or a unit of weeks. I think it was early March, the press conference, I wasn't looking today. And that's a big problem. If Mr Plíšek spoke here about the failure of the Financial Administration to respect the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court and the proposed resolution, at least I have seen it, it will certainly be read, it is not mine, he says that we call on the Prime Minister to ensure that the Financial Administration respects the decisions of independent courts. What is wrong with that, Mr President of the Economic Committee through the Vice-President? This is not a political attack on anyone. It is not a challenge for this or the next minister to call someone off. I find it incredible. Well, I'd like to ask you when you're the Minister to check that the statement is true and to inform us. I don't know if it's true that the Financial Administration didn't respect it, but there was a specific case. I mean, there's nothing easier than saying yes, it's true or no, it's not true. And if that's not true, we need someone there, or you need to call someone to account. I'm not saying what. I don't know when or how and if it's true. But these are specific things that can be solved in a matter of hours. If the current finance minister hadn't worked yet - I haven't seen him here this week. Somewhere he wrote: why would I go to the Chamber of Deputies? And someone answered him: well, maybe because you're an MP. That's a pretty good reason to go to the Chamber of Deputies when you're an MP, at least for most of us. For some, no. He could have run it by now. From that Wednesday, we could have had an answer today, as in this particular case, whether or not the Financial Administration respected the decision of the court. Not the submission of a tax entity or any opinion of the opposition. And that's serious stuff. When I was performing on that Wednesday, I responded to yours: congratulations to the Financial Administration, only 1.44, but it was over 1.1 percent, I remember there was a mistake. [[unintelligible]] And I was asking the question that even if it was one single company, it was wrong and let's look for measures not to happen. And if it turns out that it was unprofessional, then in every normal job, even as you said, how you were doing, how you were driving the staff, then when someone was seriously erring, you must have handled it somehow. I'm sure you didn't always get fired from work, but you sort of figured it out. But today we're in a situation where businessmen are afraid to hear from the Financial Administration because they're afraid of a vengeful approach. We are denied the right to criticize that we are threatening independence. And I was saying today in some conversation with your party colleague that no one would question that. I call for impartiality. Independence and addiction means taking instructions from someone. It is impartial that it acts impartially in the exercise of its powers. I don't see impartiality, it's not that important, but it's not that small and medium-sized businessmen. And that's not just the Financial Administration. When a small or medium-sized businessman pays, I know it's wrong, it's a violation of the law, he'll pay three, four, five days later insurance, so I'm sure he'll find the bill, the penalty, that it's very simple, it makes the software. If you owe large sums, the state will negotiate with you. When you owe small sums, no one negotiates with you. I would have expected that when there is really little time, and I found that the government parties were afraid of an earlier election date, so at least try to prepare and enforce it, and calmly in the '90s, and we're ready to debate that the sanctions would, for example, be based on the size of the company. If it's a big firm, the sanctions and control reports of 30,000 are nothing. For a small businessman, I know someone thinks it's smiling, it can be vanquishing. It's not fair. I say repeatedly, when I hear about it, I talk about cases where taxes have not been reduced, just, for example, administrative misconduct. That's what I think is a matter that we can quickly agree on, that's not a major change. Because it's so much better than having a press conference and saying, and now we're gonna forgive it. I understand that. That's when it happened. But for the future, we could ease or change the rules. And we just know the turnovers of the companies and all that. Or according to the classic definition that we already have in the Czech legal system - micro enterprise, small enterprise, medium-sized enterprise, large enterprise. This is, for example, a percentage penalty. Or if there are amounts, it's according to that. So-called anti-corruption measures that no fine can be imposed on. But then the highest was stored, no matter how much I quoted the example. I also provided the materials to the Prime Minister, who answered me in due time. Actually, there's no room. Even the Financial Administration itself wrote, it's true what the subject writes, he paid his taxes properly, there was never a problem, but we didn't find any special reasons why we would forgive 30 grand here. Now we have a special reason - the press conference of the Minister, Deputy Minister and Director of the Financial Administration. And I welcome it, I'm not criticizing it. Just from those words, I'd like to ask that press conference if you're in that position to make it work. Make this forgiveness take very quickly. [[unintelligible]] And in order to get a report, for example, as members of the Committee on Budgets, not the entities specifically concerned, and to say: For the formal error in the inspection report, for example, that no corrective inspection report was submitted within 5 days, we have granted a total - now I will invent - a thousand fines of a total of CZK 12 million, of which 850 entrepreneurs have requested and we have granted them all. Or we agreed to 90 percent because they were the ones who never had a tax problem. Those recidivists, when I put it that way, who'd already had a tax problem, we couldn't live up to them. And then I'll know that the words from the press conference are in reality, and I think we'll all be satisfied that we'll protect the honest ones, that the other strict approach of the state in that case is justified. That's all. [[13.20 hours]] But I'm very surprised. You said yourself you had to meet the resort, I understand. At the same time, I want to say clearly the general principle, the general approach of the ODS, that the minister is primarily a politician. And it's to be judged whether he can handle the conversation politically. And it's to be judged, if possible, after a period of time, and not in advance. So the Minister of Health isn't supposed to be the best doctor, or he doesn't have to be. It can, but it doesn't, it's not the assumption. And the Minister of Agriculture doesn't have to be the biggest farmer, and so on. But it should be a politician who's politically responsible for what's going on in that resort. You are prepared to accept this responsibility, so let us try to do small things in that short time that could really help those small and small ones and that could increase the confidence of small and small entrepreneurs in the Financial Administration. In order not to be afraid to tell you, to me, to any member of the House: I see this problem, feel free to talk about it publicly, use it in the debate. And you're not right, I'm begging you, but unfortunately, be so kind, but don't give our I.C.O., our name, and so on, because we're afraid of the follow-up to the Financial Administration. That's what we should all be trying to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u9	I thank Mr Zbyňka Stanjur. Allow me one more apology, and an apology from Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. Now two factual points. First Mr Václav Votava, then Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I will no longer discuss what this basically means for companies if, in some cases, the freezing orders are used on a flat-rate, routine and unjustified basis. Basically, we know it from the media, and after all, some colleagues and some companies have named it here. I think it's a really serious matter, and when I said that I was going to take it on the budget committee's agenda probably in mid-June, I also suggested that the Minister's participation be interrupted, so I guess it's losing its meaning today. The minister isn't here anyway. There is a future minister, but he does not yet have the powers he should have, so he can only express himself as a Member or Chairman of the Economic Committee. However, a number of questions need to be answered by Mr. CEO Janeček himself. That is what the Committee on Budgets is all about. I also sent a letter yesterday to respond to his information, which we basically requested regarding the checks on the koruna bonds. My letter was also received by the members of the Budget Committee, because what we received from him, I think, is really inadequate again. This is simply not worthy of the Committee on Budgets, the answers to which I would like it to answer again on the floor of the Committee on Budgets, which, of course, he should answer. Of course, we don't want to break the silence, but I think he can say a lot of things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Ivan Pilný's point of order now. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would not perform, but since I have been addressed to several things, I would like to say first of all that I realise that the Minister's office is, of course, political. Only two political parties are testing me from expertise. One of them is called ODS and the other is TOP 09. The Prime Minister didn't even try it on me. I have never had to defend my expertise from anyone, and I do not intend to do so in front of the representatives of these political parties. As far as my business is concerned, I wasn't here arguing that I was in business, but because I really understand the problems. As far as potential legislative measures are concerned, I'm a little skeptical, because we don't have any data in our hands, so we can do something like this, and we don't step on it, so to speak. It would be very unreasonable. And I'm a little skeptical that, even in the '90s or whatever, we could accept something, but that doesn't mean nothing will be done. I must say that I very much welcome the proposal of the Committee on Budgets to speak with the Director-General. And if I am appointed Minister, and even if I am not appointed Minister, I would like to attend the meeting and hear the General Director's reply. I will, of course, speak to him if I am appointed Minister, because I have no reason to. I could make a statement to the Financial Administration, because I was really in the business, a number of other comments, where everything doesn't seem to be quite right, from my own experience. And so we need to talk about it. But if the Chamber of Deputies, as a potential future minister, invites me and the Prime Minister, it's useless. Because I spoke to the Prime Minister, too, and we made a clear agreement on how we would proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u13	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. And before I give the floor to Mr Zbyněk Stanjur, I state that Mr Milan Šarapatka's apologies have been made by the end of the day. Now the de facto comment by the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u14	I may be dreaming, but the MP is really petty today. I said that I understand the position of minister as political, because I think so, and that, of course, also applies to you, and I do not question that you are a politician, chairman of the Economic Committee. So it seems logical to me. It's not a test of expertise. At the same time, I said that everyone has to prove how they can handle the function, and that can't be done in advance. At least I never say it in advance if this person succeeds or fails. It just can't be done. I would just like to mention the problem that Mr Pilný could focus on if he is appointed. We're talking here that the Financial Administration is supposedly ignoring, probably, perhaps, the Supreme Administrative Court's decision. But the Treasury is ignoring the Constitutional Court's decision. As early as February, it was decided that there was little time until October. Take a look at the Constitutional Court's decision on the inspection report. Perhaps it is - and I would like it - a plea of guilt, and you expect that from 1 January 2018, no inspection reports will be submitted. That would be good news. But I'm afraid you're going to be making up some legislative pasquila again to comply with the Constitutional Court, while chasing businessmen for a check-up report. To this day, it has not been a matter for the chairman of the Economic Committee, nor for any of us. To me, ignoring the Constitutional Court's decision by the Ministry of Finance seems incredible. But you, Mr. Chairman, as I read today, actually see no mistakes made by Andrej Babiš. Well, I think that's one of the big mistakes. And I'll ask you when you're in office on the budget committee to discuss what the Treasury is going to do about it. Or the Constitutional Court will decide something and we will say in January or February: are we running out of time? So why do we have our first reading today? And next week and this week, we have our first reading of some laws. And you already in February - not you, Treasury, I'm sorry - said there was little time. That's a big problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u15	Thank you. Who's next for the general debate? If no one, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Yes. The rapporteur Martin Plíšek is interested in the final word. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking you for the inclusion of this point and for the debate that has been here. In his speech, the Prime Minister made it clear that statistics on the enormous increase in hedging orders during this parliamentary term in particular. I and some colleagues have made it clear that we have presented the relevant caselaws of some courts. These were indeed no political statements or any political criticism. These were clear judgments and decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court, on the basis of which either the freezing orders were cancelled or interim measures were issued that the Financial Administration should not be used to liquidate, to sell the property of entrepreneurs. I must say that the figures mentioned here, for example, by Mr Pilný, as a small number, so I would also like to point out to him that a number of those submissions to the Supreme Administrative Court are still in progress, that these are ongoing matters. That it's not like we're in some kind of final state. I was only talking about those cases where the Supreme Administrative Court spoke. The judicates are on the Internet, so I'm referring to them. And I would also like to remind the honourable Member that the company that comes into this liquidation and has to release its employees, so its owner may then often solve problems other than to be judged as costly means of legal representation with the state for whether it has the right to survive. That entrepreneur and his employees often have to go to the employment office. So I just want to point out that it's not that simple that the number is supposedly not enough. We also need to ask why that is and what the causes are. But, as I mentioned, we should not be either of those cases where, on the basis of executive decisions, this institute is being abused. [[13.30 hours]] So the debate, I think, took place fairly factually. I will then sign up in a detailed debate to read a resolution which, I think, is very simple. At the same time, I will not agree with what the Chamber of Deputies has to do. We, as the Chamber of Deputies, are being answered by the government. The Chamber of Deputies shall exercise a supervisory function vis-à-vis the Government. Financial governance is part of the executive power, which is why we have the right to sign up for it and in some way to comment on it in the resolution adopted. So I would ask very much not to really say here that someone wants to influence someone's independence or impartiality. By the way, the resolution is addressed to the Prime Minister, so it is not addressed to the Financial Administration, etc. So I'm just pointing this out, and thank you again for the discussion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u17	I thank the rapporteur and ask the Prime Minister if he is interested in the final word. It's not like that. In that case, I am opening up the debate in detail and calling back the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u18	Thanks again for the word. I, too, have prepared a simple motion for a resolution on this point, which would be: "The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Prime Minister to take such measures as to ensure that the Financial Administration complies with the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court and that the Institute of Guarantee Order applies only in justified cases." As I have already mentioned here in the general debate, I think that this resolution is relatively simple and aims to prevent the institution of the freezing order being abused. I beg you to support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u19	Thank you to the rapporteur. Who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anyone, in which case, I am ending the debate in detail. We have only one motion for a resolution on this point, and we can therefore vote on this motion for a resolution. I'll check you out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm gonna go back and call in my colleagues and co-workers from the lobby. I state another apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is Mrs Golasowská, who has been apologizing since 13.30 from today's meeting. The number of entries is slowly stabilizing. We will decide on the motion for a resolution made by the rapporteur in the 90th vote. My colleague has a replacement card of 75. Mrs. Langšádlová, I'm sorry for the tape screen, because probably the writers didn't see her when she came to show it to me. So, Mrs. Langšádlová's 75 spare card. We are now to decide on a motion for a resolution. I have begun voting number 90 and I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 90, from 98 in favour of 71, against 19. The motion was accepted. So now I thank the Prime Minister, the rapporteur. I'm done with this point. And just off the charts, then, the chairman of the budget committee?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u20	Just for the stew. I have a cross to vote, but my will was to vote yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-19-ps2013-057-04-004-340.u21	Okay, so for the tape screen. I have information from the Presidents of the Members' Clubs that they are not interested in starting the next item. [[It was fun in the hall.]] No, so point 340 is interrupted. We could not say until when, because we did not know the deadline, and voting on the inclusion of points means two votes, i.e. that there has been a situation that is reasonable for us to re-vote, and it has been procedurally leading us into a relatively large trap. So I understand the procedure - I mean 54. 9 of the Rules of Procedure Act, I don't want to be wrong. Therefore, I would like to remind you once again that on Monday, May 22 there will be a ceremonial announcement of the winners of the third year of the Heart with a loving gift. It is an event organised under the auspices of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček. It is attended by approximately 250 children and will, of course, include a visit to the Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies' Chamber of Deputies. That's why I'm asking you to get all the materials from your desks, or else. The drawers have cleaned up and enabled a dignified display of our negotiating areas. In view of the agreement, I am interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies until Tuesday 23 May with the fact that we start at 14 o'clock and so far, of course, there is a fixed item number 27 on the programme, public health insurance, law at second reading, printing 1017, paragraph 28, health insurance premiums, printing 1018 and work code, item 22, print 903, and others. We will certainly discuss this on Tuesday morning and in the afternoon we will decide on the continuation of this meeting. Mr Vít Kaňkovský, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, apologizes from 13:30 before I complete the meeting. Have a good afternoon and I look forward to meeting you on May 23rd.
