ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u1	244. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended /German press 798/ - 3rd reading Allow me to welcome Senator Jiří Oberfalzer among us and ask him to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. I will also ask the rapporteur of Mr Jeroným Tejc's guarantee committee to take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 798/8, which was delivered on 18 January 2017. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 798/9. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u2	Thank you. I will just briefly remind you that the original idea and the proposal calculated in some sort of excuse for employees who have longer experience so that they do not have to meet the requirement of education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u3	I apologize, Senator, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down so that you can hear what the Senator is speaking. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u4	Thank you. Of course, it was people with longer experience. After discussions with the Ministry of the Interior, in particular with Deputy Minister Postránecký, there was finally a proposal that the possibility of completing education would be given a delay for these people for a period of five years. I agreed to the proposal because it was about time, because the critical date is 30. 6th of this year. So I guess we're in a hurry. However, during the debate in the House, one has also succeeded in including the amendments, which also takes into account people who have reached 50 years or more of age and who have had 20 years and more experience in the administration. I am satisfied with this result and will also ask you to support the amendment. In addition, there have been a number of things among the amendments to make the application of the Service Act clear, in particular, in competitions and other respects, and therefore there is also a delay of the highest age for medical review staff, which I would also support. Otherwise, I will comment on individual amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u5	Thank you, Senator. I am opening the debate and the first with priority rights is reporting to Minister Marksová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Members of Parliament, I would like to put in a good word here that, in accordance with the resolution of the Constitutional Committee, you should vote negatively in the case of the amendment under letter D. It's about the medical review service. I wanted to say that we all know that doctors are just a few, no matter what kind of doctors they are, and the same goes for assessors. There is a shortage, and younger doctors are not interested in doing so. That means the doctors who are doing the evaluation work today are at a rather high age. And we've been working on systemic changes in those reports since I joined the Ministry so that doctors might not have to do it in the future, but mostly social workers have. But these are changes that go beyond the horizon of one parliamentary term just because you have to ensure that enough of those social workers and workers come out of the universities. I would also like to point out that there is no age limit for doctors who are treating - not just writing testimonials that treat - these days. They're limited by their medical condition, and they can work until they're 90, if that's the case, when they still have patients. So please allow us to allow those assessors to work beyond 70 years of their age until 2021, and therefore to vote negatively against the amendment, which is under D and which limits this time period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u7	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. Before we continue the debate, I will read an apology. Today, from 12.30 to the end of the meeting, Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologizes. And now, therefore, duly logged in to the debate. Mr Klán will be the first to speak, Mrs Golasowská will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment at the third reading on the amendment to the Civil Service Act, which is a Senate proposal. I have carefully read all the amendments that were read at second reading, and I am particularly interested in Mrs Golasowská's amendment, namely the amendment under number 5554, if I am not mistaken, and concerns the systematicisation of jobs. We have already dealt with this problem here during the Civil Service Act. I know the MP wasn't here at the time when we were discussing this, that the job system is being announced every year, every year for that year, and that the government has to agree to that. However, this problem even reached the Constitutional Court at that time, and the Constitutional Court annulled it in the Service Act, if I remember correctly. In Section 18, Mrs Golasowská, through the President, proposes a change that the other changes to the systemisation of the Service Office during the calendar year, which will result in no change in the number of delegates, shall be approved by the State Secretary or the Service Authority in the superior service office and, unless the head of the Service Office, by the Head of the Service Office. The amendment kind of cuts out the connection with the government, for example. I have a problem with that, and I'm not voting for it. I won't. And I wonder what led Mrs Golasowská to present this amendment in particular. I hope he'll explain it in the debate, because I'm asking here. I don't get it. Of course, I understand some central government bodies, such as: The Czech office of survey and cadastral, from which I received an e-mail in which, on the contrary, it is said that Mrs Golasowská's amendment is trying to address an absurd situation where any change in systemization must be decided by the government. But the change in systemization is for example. also that the director of the cadastral workplace in Žatec needs to assign more complex work to an official during the year for which he is entitled to higher pay grade. He is rather extensive when the director of the office of survey and cadastral sheds light on this text and wants us to vote in favour of this amendment. I'm not voting for him. I won't. And it can be seen that the Civil Service Act is truly folk creativity. Totally folk creativity. We're putting out partial fires in the state administration, whether it's the medical examiners that the Minister of Social Affairs was talking about, or this problem of job systemization. It really does exist. However, we are gradually patching up the service law that caused the fire in some way. Of course, the second amendment tabled by the honourable Member, he is B1 and B2, and I will not support it either. I won't support either of them. That's why I'm saying I can think about it. It seems unsystematic to me, and I wonder what led her to present this amendment through Mr President. I will now theorize here if the Minister of Agriculture himself has not given her this amendment. It's possible in theory. I'll be happy to get a little insight into this, because the service bill really has an impact on the entire state administration. It is a rather extensive material that affects all officials. Of course, they welcomed him with enthusiasm for depoliticizing the state administration, but, as you can see, we want to go back to that politicalization again. I have said here many times in second reading that it will occur - I would not blame it - to abolish the service law when a new political guarantee from this year's election comes. Because he is troublesome to some ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, especially those central authorities of the state administration, whether it be the CUZK or whether it be other central authorities of the state administration, not the ministries, but the other authorities of the state administration that I wanted to remove from the service law. And we managed to remove only the Czech Statistical Office, which does not fall under the service law. That was the only office in the central government that we were able to remove. The others stayed there. I don't care if it's the Mining Authority. I was pointing that out here when it was discussed in 2013, 2014, when it came here as an MP bill. And here you can see that these parliamentary bills are a little bad when it comes to extensive materials that have an impact on the whole society or the entire state administration, because you're always sticking something in there, and then they come to think that something doesn't work, like the review doctors. Of course, I welcome the efforts of the Senate to put out the fire that has just come about. Madam Secretary here was talking about it. As regards other amendments. Of course, they reflect, for example. It's that this guy has a long-term experience in some way. The rapporteur here has also spoken about this at second reading. Personally, I don't have a problem with that either. If someone's been in office for 20 years, let them have an exception, and they don't have a proper education because they have a really long experience. However, again, as I have said many times here, it is a non-systemic solution. If we want to do something systemically, we need to prepare an amendment to the Service Act, where it will all be reflected. I also asked Mr Postránecký about this before the Senate proposal came in whether they were preparing an amendment to the Service Act. I was told that no, that it is not necessary yet, that they are gathering some information that they need to present a novel. And then all of a sudden, the senát came in and said-- we have this problem at the financial offices, we have this problem with social services assessors. Then the Home Office woke up a little bit, got a little crazy and said - we've got more problems. [[11.40 hours]] I also took part in the negotiations of the Constitutional Legal Committee, where this problem was resolved. I've heard the arguments that are up-to-date, and they're definitely clear. So I'm sure we'll support either the vote en bloc in some way, I don't know how the procedure is designed yet, how the procedure will change. We will support the amendments adopted by the Constitutional Committee. We will no doubt support that. That's where the consensus came up, when we all just agreed that there really was a need to put out the fire. But in the course of time, there will certainly be further outbreaks of fire, and we will be here in six months before the election, perhaps, sticking to the law of service. I point out here that there will certainly be more problems. There'll be more, it won't be just what I'm talking about or what the rapporteur or the senator was talking about. There are more problems, for example, I asked the affected actors if they had a little problem with it. They said, of course, that there was something going on at the ministries, that those who were supposed to leave stayed and those who didn't leave and had no education, which is the one paragraph in the service law, so they just stayed there. When I asked about the numbers that would kind of prove it to me, the D.O.D. said some numbers, but somehow I wasn't convinced. Of course, I will then ask here in the debate, because here the amendments under letter A are dealt with as AB and AC, and then I will ask the rapporteur if it will be voted separately, AC and AB, I just need to answer that in the debate, so that I can then arrange how to just watch it, because AB is that the former employee mentioned in paragraph 1. 1 shall be entitled to be admitted to the service for an indefinite period of time, if the Administrative Office requests admission to service in writing by 31 August of this year, on the date on which the application for admission to service is submitted, it shall fulfil the conditions laid down in Article 25 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (a), (c), (d) and (f) and the condition referred to in Section 190 (2) (b). Article 4 (1) (a) (b) has reached the age of just 50 years and has been in the administrative office, in the municipal office of the municipality with extended competence, the regional authority, the institution of the European Union or the international organisation of activities pursuant to § 5 or activities similar for at least 20 years. That's what I've been saying here for 20 years. Of course, it's those senior officials who may not have the proper education right now. Then there is the AC, where it is again in § 178 za para. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) 2 which reads: If the proper exercise of the office's duties is seriously threatened, the service authority may occupy a post, with the exception of the place of employment referred to, by a fixed-term person under the employment rules, with a duration of up to a maximum of six months, until that post is filled by a civil servant under other paragraphs. Are they going to be employed on the labour code or under the service law? I would like to clarify this so that we understand each other in the vote. I don't have a problem with that, because that's where we put out the fires. It's just for the vote. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] I have spoken to Mrs Golasowská. As regards Ms Maxová, where the number for assessors is replaced by 2017 number 2021 is replaced by 2018. It's here to discuss. She will certainly speak to this, respond to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, so I will certainly listen to the argument in order to consider whether we will support it or not. It's the medical examiners that are affected. There is still an amendment under No. 5535 and this is Mrs Golasowská amendment. It's 5534, I'm sorry, it's a paycheck. This is again something to consider and discuss how to stand up to. Looking at this place, I don't have that much to worry about. We will, of course, decide by vote. The rapporteur will certainly say the position of the guarantee committee on this, as they agreed when they voted on the procedure, but, as far as I know from our representatives, the amendment arising from the constitutionally legal committee was supported in particular. That's what we agreed on. I also welcome, of course, that the recruitment allowance fell because the recruitment allowance was discriminatory. There was just a problem that would be discriminatory for someone, someone would get him and someone wouldn't. So I was glad the recruitment allowance fell out, dropped out. It is only a good thing that it hasn't returned anywhere, if memory doesn't deceive me, perhaps it hasn't returned in some amendment that was loaded. Since I've been reading this, the recruitment allowance hasn't come back. I understand, of course, that the recruitment allowance works in some areas of government, but in this case it would be discriminatory in my view. I've dealt with this with government experts who told me that he would really be discriminatory. So I'm glad we dropped this. [[The noise in the hall is huge!]] However, I really must say here that the Service Act, as it was prepared here and approved in 2014, was approved quickly, in a hurry, under pressure, whoever it was, as I said here, the right-wing opposition, which, of course, in some way gave its condition that the Directorate-General of State Service would not, it would be under the Ministry of the Interior, otherwise the House would be blocked. Then it was explained in the House, even had to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u9	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but the level of noise in the room is quite high again. I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u10	Thank you. I know it's a bit of a repeat, but repetition is the mother of wisdom. I could start over because I can see that some of my colleagues and colleagues didn't listen to me, but I won't. However, I say here that the service law will often be amended. I draw attention to the fact that it will often be amended because it is prepared in poor quality. Here I have this connotation with my IDs, when people's creativity comes along, it becomes something similar. But the civil service is proof of this, it was approved in a hurry and, moreover, a parliamentary proposal. The MP's proposal, as you can see, doesn't have all the elaborate stuff, doesn't have RIA, doesn't have all the stuff in it. This then turned out to be a comprehensive amendment that did not reflect all the comments. When this was discussed here and I pointed out the problems that are there in the Service Act and they occur, they will now surface here. Now it turns out the problem is real. [[The noise in the room won't stop!]] That is why we did not vote as a KSČM MP for the Service Act. We have no problem and we have never had a problem with depoliticizing the state administration, we have always been in favour of it, for the government to depoliticize, for experts to be there in their place and not to be replaced every time a new political guarantee came, which was that both the cleaning lady and the driver had switched there. Of course, this is not happening. The problem then, of course, occurred in the civil service on remuneration, when table salaries were accepted, which of course we welcomed, and of course we welcomed the official exam. We welcomed it all. Of course, some did not like the cancellation of contractual salaries. It was no wonder that they were canceled because, especially at the Office of the Government, there were many times the remuneration, the salaries were absolutely high, disproportionately what officials were doing, the employees of the Office of the Government. That was really happening. That is why we have welcomed the cancellation of contractual salaries and we welcome it to this day. Of course, it sometimes had negative effects on the remuneration of some experts. That's what it said. That's why there's an IT problem. There has been a problem with remuneration in the field of IT. I asked Mr Postráneckýý whether this problem had been resolved in any way, because IT experts were not properly paid because they fell into some grade. I learned that, in their nature, they could receive some extra bonuses, other benefits, that was made by some kind of decree, if memory isn't confusing me, and it was somehow altered there. But the problem can go back, because whoever comes to the office will be an IT expert and will fall into some grade, will somehow be negatively judged, because in the private sphere he will be paid many times better. [[11.50 hours]] This really happens that the private sphere is pulling away experts and no one really wants to go to the state administration. No one really wants to go there because we just can't pay them well. They also told me that the problem in IT ministries is working and really exists. This also needs to be pointed out. Of course I say, I welcome that this has become clear in some way by making a decree that we can give them extra salaries in some way and they have paid for it, but it is another outbreak of fire that can occur in real life and in the overall implementation of the service law. Controversy is more, for example, the vice-president. We know we had a gunfight here in some way, that someone was calling off an undersecretary, or he wanted to call him off, but he can't just be called off because it can be done through the systemization of jobs. That's what's really included in the systemization, because for the next new year, the systemization...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u11	I understand you very well, Mr. Ambassador. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, I will ask you to keep your voice down, and if you have a need to discuss, go to the lobby. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u12	Thank you. As I said, if they want to debate, then let them debate in the debate, I will be happy to respond to it, I have no problem with it, but it is a fundamental topic and an issue that will influence the administration more and more in the future. So we created here - I said here at the time - paskvil in 2014, which will then be amended many times and will show problems in the state administration in its implementation. This is really happening. It was a different assessment of competitions, and, as I said before, the dismissal of the Deputys, because there some ministers and ministers did not realize that they could in some way call off political deputys, because the political deputy who comes to the Ministry is basically leaving with the minister. For example, I would like to know which ministries were left with political representatives, who, for example, came up with a former minister, let's say, Dienstbier. He was the minister, as they say, without the Ministry. He's a colleague of Chvojka's here somewhere, and I wanted to ask him this, because he was the one who basically made the service bill, virtually. participated in those negotiations and was the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, even addressed by the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee when we addressed the impacts. There, for example, local government officials have been telling us, as they say, regional officials, where the regional and local government service law has existed since 2004. It should be recalled here that the Civil Service Act was approved in 2002, but it never became effective. Only some passages came into effect at that time until 2013, however, its effectiveness was still delayed. And in 2013, there was this phenomenon that, in its essence, it should have started to apply suddenly, to take effect by the Civil Service Act 2002. There's been a problem. However, the 2002 Law was well worked out. He was quite top-notch and precisely given as an example which we could absolutely calmly let run here. But some didn't like it. President Zeman has somehow made it conditional on the adoption of the service law and the establishment of the government, yes, that has actually happened, so the parliamentary bill has just been tabled here. Then, when the whole thing was going on, and I was going to those meetings with Vice-President Filip, and we were dealing with this problem. We've actually been dealing with these current issues involving the state administration. The comprehensive amendment was also prepared by the Minister for Legislation and Human Rights Jiří Dienstbier. He really prepared it with the current Minister Kateřina Valachová, who also went there, and we actually always went to those meetings. It was a hot summer back then, a rough summer, but the bill turned out the way it did. Then it can be no wonder that I have long comments on this because, as I say over and over again, the amendments simply reflect in some way just something, only partial adjustments, partial things that are not solved comprehensively. When it comes to some sort of connection, ladies and gentlemen, let us be aware of the link with other laws here. It's the Foreign Service Act that we've been discussing here, and we can continue to talk about the 70-year exemption, which is really problematic because the Service Act says that the age of leaving the state service is 70 years. And here, at the time of the foreign service law, we created an exception for some ambassadors when we said we would forgive them for 70 years. Of course, it was Mrs. Klausová and Mrs. Filipi. That's what I said here, too, and it was obvious. However, it bothered me that 70 years will not just apply to some -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u13	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, but I will once again enter your speech and ask my colleagues, especially in the left side of the hall, in the very left side, to keep it down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u14	I know I'm taking things a little bit more into consideration here, but it's really necessary to repeat these things here in some way, as things have been going on, because then this happens that we're still updating these things here. And I say foreign service. I've already talked about this here, too, when it was discussed here. It is now in the Constitutional Legal Committee and also in the Foreign Committee, where the interrelationship of foreign service and service law will be dealt with. I was saying that if the foreign service is removed from the state service, then the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not still want to be the central body of the state administration. He doesn't want to be. He's not here, Mr. Foreign Minister. I understand, he's on a foreign trip to Serbia, he's negotiating something, so I can't ask him about it here. I asked him about it in the foreign service, and in the foreign service I was told that they didn't want to and that the foreign service doesn't have Sweden, Hungary, for example, so I was quite surprised that we are only now dealing with foreign service in some way, when we were able to deal with it in a complex way during the preparation of the Civil Service Act. And in the 2002 Civil Service Act, it was all contained. There was also a modification with the National Security Authority in some way resolved, everything was resolved there and instead a new bill came in, which said something completely different, and we made it into something completely different. It always fascinated me that we had to go to Brussels to explain why we had an official or a super official under the Ministry of the Interior. We really do have him there, and so somehow the depoliticization of the state administration is reduced if he's under the Ministry of the Interior. And if memory doesn't deceive me, that was the condition of the right-wing opposition to have a super official under the Ministry of the Interior. Indeed, this has happened, and it is hard for us to explain it, because it is said that the EU would somehow stop us from drawing subsidies. Eventually, nothing happened. I was leaning to introduce the so-called. The Directorate-General for State Services, following the model of Great Britain, Poland or other countries, however, had a problem with the right-wing opposition, which said that it was no depoliticalization, that it was somehow concrete for civil servants and that it would remain there and they would not be able to appeal. Eventually, it went all the way to the Home Office. The problem still exists within the interior, and therefore there is no depoliticalisation of the public service. Of course, as I said, we have always welcomed the introduction of the Civil Service Act, because it was necessary to depolitize the entire state administration. That's what I said. In particular, under Petr Nečas, it was shown that the state service is relatively much politicized, problematic and stretches it all to broad dimensions. [[12.00 hours]] As I am still looking at the amendments here, we have also said some things to ourselves on the Constitutional Legal Committee. I also listened to the arguments of the right-wing opposition, when it dealt with the age of 50 and just 20 years of practice there. I know there's been a process of access from the private sphere to the public service. We forgot a little bit about this, because somehow the thing that was related to the private sphere and its penetration into the state administration, that's what was being dealt with here, too, when we were discussing the Civil Service Act. I was against it because we would somehow dehone the state administration. That if, of course, there were experts from the private sphere, and I understand that they were experts, but it would be quite a problem. There would have to be adjusted selection procedures and other things that -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u15	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I will ask again for the silence of my colleague and colleague, because what you are saying is important. It's important that we understand what you're saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u16	Yes, I'm aware that they understand. Well, in that case, I don't think I'm gonna be holding up much longer. Maybe I'll come forward and do something again, so we can all understand each other. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u17	Thank you, too. President Kováčik is now reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, the attention of discussing such a serious law, on which I would say at least very much the highest civil servant's strong interest, is striking me. I'm concerned about the inattentiveness that's in this room. I'm concerned that not everyone seems to know what it is about and why it is, as it is proposed, to make decisions. Therefore, allow me to request a recess for the KSČ club meeting within 13 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u19	13 o'clock. Okay. With priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u20	I'd like to ask you before the pause is announced if we could consult as club presidents, see if we can proceed in any other way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u21	Okay. Will five minutes be enough to break the chairmen's briefing? Okay. I'm interrupting the meeting for five minutes. And I ask the presidents of the MPs to consult for further action. Thank you. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 12.02 to 12.05 hours.]] Time's up for recess. I am interested in the conclusion of the meeting of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs. I'll ask... Please, Chairman Sklenák. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u22	I don't know if I can present it as a conclusion, as an agreement between the presidents of the MPs. Anyway, at this point in time, I'm proposing that we remove all unnegotiated items from the agenda of the current meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u23	Okay. It's a procedural proposal. I'll call in a colleague and a co-worker from the lobby. I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll check you all out first. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards again. We'll wait for the co-workers and co-workers from the lobby to come. [[He's waiting for a while.]] For the sake of order, I will repeat the procedural proposal that has been made here, which is that we remove all points from the agenda. All outstanding items on the agenda, including this one. Kvorum has stabilized. I can begin the vote. I'm opening the vote, and I'm asking who's in favour of taking the seats off the agenda, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with serial number 346. 103 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 69, against 3. The motion was accepted. Since we've eliminated all outstanding items from the agenda, we've exhausted the agenda and we're done after three weeks. And I'm ending this meeting. The President of the Election Commission has yet to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u24	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, please, members of the electoral committee, we didn't have a meeting until two hours later. I'm calling the election committee for 12.15 hours for the piano. Once again, I will ask all present members of the electoral committee to prepare points for the February meeting - at 12.15 p.m. here at the piano. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-03-ps2013-054-12-004-244.u25	I thank you and wish you a pleasant rest of the day.
