ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 /German press 2/ - second reading We are in the middle of a detailed debate on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic. Mrs Kovářová, Mrs Kovářová, is enrolled in a detailed debate, but President Michálek has signed up with priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just going to come up with an adjourned point, i.e. the announcement of the outcome of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies Commissions. We took a break at the meeting of our club and we had to say that there was an agreement between club presidents about ten days ago, which included two commissions coming to us, the KSČM will be one committee, but another committee. And unfortunately, this agreement has not been complied with. I feel, I must say, a little awkward, because we've kept all the deals. We came here to the House with honest intentions, and it's a little kinky that I have to kind of point out here that some political parties are willing to make a deal. I received assurances just before the election that the agreement was valid, and subsequently I am voting for all the candidates from the ANO movement, all the candidates from the SPD, all the candidates from the block, and our candidate Ondra Profant, who was supposed to be chairman of the Committee for the Labor of the Chamber of Deputies, is not elected and instead the candidate from the KSČM is elected, who was not even entitled to this post under the agreement of club presidents. So apparently, the deals aren't working out. I think it shows that we should probably try to communicate better. This committee for the work of the Chamber of Deputies was our negotiating priority at the meeting of the club chairmen. We stressed it, we wanted it, because we had a programme for elections to the Chamber of Deputies, that we would try to involve citizens more, more openness, etc. That is why we are very sorry that, despite the agreement being concluded that we have confirmed it, this agreement has not been respected. So I would like to conclude my speech so that, as club presidents, we can gather together and take such steps that the agreement will be respected, so that the resolution can be revised subsequently. To get back to the deal we put together at the club president's meeting. I hope that this will not happen again in the future, that we will not be misled and that we will all keep our word, as we pirát have kept it in this vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u3	Thank you. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u4	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Madames and gentlemen, I shall return to our item on programme No. 1, second reading of the state budget. And before that, I'll just reply to my colleague Michálek through you. As you rightly said, President of the club, the deal was made without us, at our expense. So either the deals will be in nine clubs, or they won't pay at all. You'll have to change your mind. Now, then, if I have already asked for the floor, let me make an amendment to the rapporteur. I would like to make an amendment to Annex No Article 1 (1) of the Budget Committee's resolution, when to the list of subsidies referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) of the Financial Regulation. 12 under the heading Czech Union of Freedom Fighters for Projects and the Activities of this Organization - now there is 6.3 million. The crown was increased to 8 miles. Crowns. And it goes all the way under Chapter No. 398 General Treasury Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u5	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, President Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u6	Thank you for the floor. Shortly to the Communists. I did not talk about communists, because, on the contrary, we specifically pointed out to the Communists at the meeting with other clubs that we would not vote for the nominator of the KSČM Mr. Ondráček for the commission chair. So it wasn't meant to be about you. This was meant for Mr Faltýnek, with whom we agreed, as well as with other club presidents, that the function would be divided in such a way that YES will fall several posts, for which we voted, that the block would fall several posts, for which we also voted. And all of a sudden, we're gonna know that they're gonna push us out, because ANO, obviously - I don't understand it, but I can't explain it any other way that ANO needs to solve the problem with Mr. Ondráček so he doesn't have to vote for him, so he's gonna pass our position, which has been confirmed by the agreement. There's a whole problem here that we're dealing with. I think this is incorrect, which is why I asked the club presidents to meet and propose a way to resolve this, because we had a much better outcome in the election than you did. And it's unacceptable for us to have the same number of commissions as yours. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u7	With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u8	Thank you for the floor. I will make two amendments. One on behalf of the entire Civic Democrat Parliamentary Club and one on behalf of a colleague who is currently excused. By the time I get to that point, I'd like to say it's a good day for the Constitutional Court to cancel the third and fourth EET wave. That's a nice present for hundreds of thousands of businessmen, small and small entrepreneurs. It is also good for the Czech Republic. And in the same direction, our parliamentary proposal, which is being conducted in the system as House Document No 129, is heading in the same direction. We have repeatedly criticised the deficit of the proposed budget for 2018 of 50 billion. Let me just repeat the main argument, the main reason. At a time of long-term economic growth, we see no reason to propose a state budget with a deficit. And if you're criticizing something, you're also supposed to show where you see the reserves. Like we did last year, we made an amendment and found 20 billion. reserves, last year it was 30 billion. And for next year's budget, it's 28.2 billion. Crowns. These are the savings listed in House Document No 129. When the press asked us today if it was all the savings we found, I said no. We respect the lack of time that the Chamber of Deputies has as a whole, individual committees, individual Members, individual Members to go through all the chapters in detail. It wasn't a decision either of us made. It has to do with the term of election to the Chamber of Deputies. We also voted in favour of the state budget schedule, so think of it as a sigh. If we had more time to go through all the chapter notebooks in detail, we would certainly find smaller numbers in a few moments, because there are tens, hundreds of items in the order of units or tens of millions that we consider necessary, and therefore we do not get to spending in the area that we prefer - defence, security, education. But most of all, we're creating space here, and we want to show where we can save so we can lower taxes. Very often, when we propose a reduction in taxes - and we have experience here from the last term, we will see how it will be in this, so far we have not discussed any law in plenary - the very common argument of the Ministry of Finance or Government as a whole was: where we will take it, there is no money for it, we are counting on the revenue. If at this point we see 28.2 billion. possible savings, so obviously here, if the amendment were to pass, there was room for tax reductions, whether reduction or cancellation of property acquisition tax. The proposal is already in the legislative process. I suppose at the first proper meeting in January, now I don't mean the meeting that concerns the government's confidence, but the one that starts on Tuesday, 16 January, we will be able to discuss it and possibly vote on it. To ensure that the money, thanks to the fact that the basic parameters of the state budget for 2018 are already approved to compensate for it, all of us are 28.2 billion. we give as if we contribute to the income of the state debt, the service of the state debt. And we are really proposing to reduce state debt for this money. And now let me briefly, because it's mentioned in the document, so I don't want to give a five-minute persuasion to each item here, that it's a good thing, so I'm just going to tell you which ministries we've focused on and which items we're proposing to reduce possibly a short comment. But really short. I see that at least 16 other colleagues are logged in. The first ministry we've looked at is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We all know, and I think we're all happy that there's record low unemployment. Nevertheless, there are too many funds in the draft budget for unemployment support and also for benefits in material distress. This does not correspond to the economic reality at all, and it also does not correspond to the estimates of all institutions regarding the development of the economy of the Czech Republic next year. So we propose to reduce sickness insurance benefits, unemployment benefits, benefits in material distress, state social support benefits, but also other expenses for the organizational units of the state. These are the expenses that are very difficult to track, but it is such a general item, which means that they are all organizational parts of the state that belong to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Then we looked at the Ministry of the Interior, where we propose, for example, to cut other current spending by one billion. Similarly, the total amount of salaries and this, of course, is related to compulsory insurance or insurance paid by the employer. Ministry of the Environment - we propose to reduce climate protection and air protection by 1.5 billion. and other environmental activities by one billion. As well as the Ministry of Regional Development, promoting regional tourism development, other expenses of 800 million. We have been having a dispute here for a long time, and with many legal provisions proposed by the government, we want to straighten out the business environment. The target is absolutely correct. If something's wrong with the business environment, they're subsidies. The subsidies are essentially unfair, selective, who has better contacts, writes a nicer request, colorful, nicer graphs, succeeds. Whoever doesn't succeed so often. If, for example, we want to support these activities, cancel these grant titles, and put this money into the budgetary determination of taxes if we want to do so, for example. They will not write municipalities, cities and regions of applications, other officials will not evaluate and our colleagues, who work in municipal or regional politics, will certainly deal with this money better than we officials in the state budget. So that's two large amounts. One is from the Ministry of Industry and Trade - non-investment transfers to non-financial business entities, legal persons 5.8 billion. And the Ministry of Agriculture - support of the agrofood complex 5 billion. Then there are other items, such as building savings. We had a debate on this as well as on the budget committee, when this year's state contribution to building savings is less than 4 billion. That's not gonna change. But we can see the drop. Each year, the resources spent on building savings fall. It's also due to a law change a few years ago, so we see there's a useless 4.2 billion. We propose to cut this expenditure by 200 miles. Then there are other expenses in the general treasury and other items. I'm not gonna comment on this individually anymore, so I don't stall. Bottom line, possible savings of 28.2 billion. If you support this, and on behalf of our club, I'm asking you to do so, this money is going in favour of a reduction in state debt at the moment. If the government then finds another allocation for them, then we can conduct some negotiations, then within the budget committee, because it would be too big a budget measure and it is not just in the government's grasp. So much for the House document, which is conducted in the system under number 129. [[13.10 hours]] Now, let me sign up on behalf of the amendment to the state budget, and the House document has no. 147. It was handed to my colleague, Mr Stanislav Blaha, and it is a transfer within the Ministry for Regional Development and it is a greater support for conservation of monuments and monuments - the main reason is simple, it is a long-term underfunded area - amounting to 280 million. Kč. Let me repeat, House Document No. 147. Of course, I am asking you to support this amendment as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u9	Thank you. Mrs Kovářová is enrolled in the debate, Mr Vácha will be prepared. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to several amendments. The first is the amendment which is conducted in the system under No. 80 and relating to municipal roads. We propose that changes be made to the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018, which consists in increasing expenditure in favour of Chapter 317 of the Ministry of Regional Development. It is proposed to increase the budget in support of reconstruction of local roads by an amount of 250 million. Kč. The reason for this increase is insufficient allocation in grant title No. 5 support local communications. This grant title is intended for municipalities up to 3,000 inhabitants. We all know there's a huge internal debt on local roads. The reconstruction of local roads is often financially demanding and is often impossible for municipalities without the possibility of using the grant title. In 2016 and 2017, applications for subsidies were submitted for a total amount of CZK 1 293 000 000 and only CZK 550 million were approved. Other applications were not approved due to insufficient allocation in the subsidy title or for administrative reasons. The number of requests for grants sent shows the need to increase the allocation of the subsidy title No. 5 and the current underfinance by reconstructing local communications. Another amendment is the proposal in the system under No. 116 and it concerns cultural monuments. In the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018, we propose to make changes consisting in increasing expenditure in favour of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture. We propose an increase in the budget in support, rescue and restoration of cultural monuments by 300 million. Kč. The reason for this increase is the long-term lack of funds for the restoration of cultural monuments. It has been found that there is an internal debt of more than 300 billion on cultural monuments. Kč. We have about 40,000 sights in the Czech Republic. However, cultural monuments cannot be financed from the European Union's money. It is therefore important that programmes, which are six and from which applicants draw on the restoration of cultural monuments, be strengthened. I think we need to preserve our cultural heritage. Nevertheless, monuments bring funds to the state budget. The third amendment is an amendment which is introduced in the system under No. 149 and related to kindergartens. During the discussion of the Committee on Budgets, arguments were raised against increasing support for the expansion of the capacity of kindergarten schools, with sufficient capacity in the Czech Republic, a sufficient number of places in kindergartens. If we take it across the board, maybe it's true. But there are areas where there is a significant shortage of places, especially in schools. This concerns the capital city of Prague, some administrative districts of the ORP of the Central Bohemia Region, such as: Benešov, Beroun, Brandýs nad Labem, Stará Boleslav, Černošice, Český Brod, Dobříš, Kralupy nad Vltavou, Lysá nad Labem, Mladá Boleslav, Munich Hradiště, Neratovice and Říčany. Further in the administrative districts of ORP České Budějovice, Brno, Kuřim, Šlapanice, Hradec Králové, Liberec, Pardubice, Plzeň and Roudnice nad Labem. It was found that projects for kindergarten schools with a building permit of around 1 billion were prepared in the Central Bohemia Region. Kč. In other regions, such as: Olomouc Region, Liberec Region and South Bohemia Region, is prepared in projects almost 1 billion. Kč. So we can consider that it can be 4 billion in the whole Czech Republic. We therefore propose to strengthen the programme 133310 Development of teaching capacities of nursery and primary schools set up by local authorities. I took the liberty of preparing three options that you can study yourself in the system. The Ministry of Education has effective tools to support the creation of new capacities of nursery schools set up by local authorities, which are offered as an appropriate solution for the imminent lack of capacity in pre-school and primary education in case of strengthening the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I would therefore ask you to consider the support of this amendment. The three variants relate to an increase of 400 million. CZK, 300 or 250. The last amendment is two options concerning teacher salaries. They are in the system led under No. 150 and 151. In the Government Bill on the State Budget, it is proposed to make changes for 2018 which consist in increasing expenditure in favour of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education. An increase of more than 15 billion in regional education is proposed. Kč. The reason for this increase is that all our political parties here have announced in the pre-election statements that they agree to increase the salaries of teachers. We propose this amount, the more than 15 billion. CZK, so that the average salary of the teacher corresponds to 130 percent of the average wage in the Czech Republic. We all know today that unemployment is being reduced. There is a shortage of workers on the market. The only way to recruit workers is to drag workers from another sector. Therefore, if we want to keep teachers in education, they need to be shown that pay must correspond to the labour market, so that they remain in the sector in order to maintain the competitiveness of the sector. I think we talk a lot about investing in infrastructure here. We are saying by this proposal that we want to invest in our future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u11	Thank you. Mr Vácha will also appear, Mr Birke will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I come up with two amendments. The first one is under number 132, which I would like to sign up for. I would like to say that this first amendment does not in any way increase the state deficit, Chapter 396 the State debt or the operator of the state debt. It concerns the financing of research and development in the Czech Republic. Institutional support for research organisations is given - or funding of these research organisations is given by Act 130/2002 Coll., where it is said that the research organisation is supported by an assessment of its achievements so that its share in the total amount of institutional support for research organisations from the state budget in a given year corresponds to its share in the value of research by all research organisations. Unfortunately, in the preparation of the state budget, this law was not taken into account and in the various chapters of the state budget, which are fifteen, which manage the funds for research, development and innovation, this division does not correspond to the evaluation of the results achieved. For illustration purposes, I can tell you that some chapters increase this indicator by 40, 60, but also 150, 220 and the winner is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs 500 percent increase in research and development funds. I believe that this budget was drawn up only on the basis of the personal dealings of these entities with the Ministry of Finance and, of course, does not comply with Act No. 130/2002 Sb. Again, I suggest we move between chapters, that is, not increase state debt. If you look at the proposal, if you add up all the resources that those budgets are being increased unduly, it puts together some 915 miles. Crowns. I propose these 915 miles. to move to Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports to the new Minister to a specific indicator of higher education. We have heard here several times in previous speeches that before the elections we have all agreed that we should support education, but in all previous amendments we have been dealing with, or colleagues have only dealt with, salaries in regional education, i.e. maternity, elementary, secondary schools. I would ask the Minister, if you would agree to this amendment, to use it precisely for higher education salaries. I realize that higher education salaries are under the authority of universities, but I firmly believe that the rectifiers and deans are so enlightened that they are able to invest these funds in salaries only because we know that the average salary of the assistant professor in universities is around 22, 23,000. When you look at teachers in regional education, there was a huge increase, and today we have the problem of, as my colleague Kovářová said, people running into our private sphere. Our teachers are leaving our colleges to teach high school. So that was the proposal under number 132. And then I have an amendment under number 138, where I'm already reaching into the government debt service. We know that there is no increase in the R & D budget. I propose to increase the budget for research and development in this second amendment by one billion crowns, with the support of the highest-quality "producers" of scientific results, that is, the Ministry of Education and the Academy of Sciences, and by this means we would also support those organisations that are providers of funds for science and research, that is, grant agencies. I propose to move these funds not only to the Ministry of Education and the Academy of Sciences, but also to the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, the Technical Agency of the Czech Republic and also to the Ministry of Health, where the item for special purpose financing, which means grant projects, does not increase. So I hereby sign up for my second amendment under number 138. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u13	Thank you. Mr Birke, after him, Mr Volný Member will speak. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues, I would like to apply to two amendments under the number 122 and 130 of the House document. However, let me talk first about House document 122, which is an amendment to the state budget, where I want to change in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration in the indicator of expenditure held in the information system of the programme financing of the event financed by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies of the Government of the Czech Republic - in the subsidy title 298d22 I would like to add the appropriations for the correction of regional roads II. and III. classes so that we raise the amount to 3 billion. Crowns. This means from the current total amount 167 600 thousand. is changed to 3 167 600 thousand. I would suggest taking funds from Chapter 398 of the General Treasury. The European Union budget contribution indicator is therefore reduced by 1.5 billion. That means 40,600,000 thousand. CZK 39 100,000. Crowns. Furthermore, in Chapter 396 State debt, the government debt operator is reduced by 1.5 billion. also, which in total would be 3 billion. Right on that road repair item II. and III. classes. That means the number would change from 45,892 500 thousand. to 44 392 500 thousand. Let me read you the explanatory memorandum, which will, of course, concern the two amendments, which means that I will no longer read the explanatory memorandum in the second amendment. The reason message would sound and sound - the law... and which is part of the amendment. Act number 3132/2000 Coll. , by which Act 13/1997 Coll. on Roads was amended, was taken into the self-governing regions on 1 October 2001 from the State's ownership of the regions - for your information - it was a range of approximately 14,500 kilometres of road II. classes and approximately 34 100 km of roads III. classes. [[Correct No. 132/2000]] However, according to § 9 para. 1 of Law No. 13/1997 Coll. have become the owner of roads II. and III. regional class, it should be said that there is a long-term shortage, and a serious deficiency, precisely in the transfer of 2001. And it turns out that the transfer of competences and administrative obligations did not accompany a sufficient, permanent and, in particular, legislatively anchored supply of funds that would allow regions adequate and, in particular, continuous management of the maintenance of this road network. According to data from the Road and Motorway Directorate, almost half of all transport performances on the whole road network in the Czech Republic will take place on the regional road infrastructure. [[13.30 hours]] By 2015, the regions carried out repairs of these communications exclusively from their own budgets and, where appropriate, from the financial resources which they had managed to obtain from the subsidies of the European Union. However, this fact significantly and negatively limited the scope of potential investment activities. And I just want to say that the current underfinancing of maintenance and repairs in the individual regions of all 14 is quite astronomical, at an amount of 80 billion. The regions could start a more significant and meaningful investment activity for that type of communication for the first time only in 2015 or started when they were provided with approximately 4.4 billion from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. In 2016, this contribution was reduced to around 3 billion. and by a similar amount, 3 billion. 420 million, it was also held in 2017, respectively. this year. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The regions have already been strongly expressed several times through the Association of Regions of the Czech Republic in the sense that to ensure future meaningful and continuous road maintenance management II. and III. it is absolutely essential that regions receive a regular contribution from the State of between 4 and 5 billion. Crowns. The head of the Regional Association is present among us. [[Mrs Vildumetz is talking to Mrs Wark in the first bench in front of the speaker's desk.]] Of course, I am not saying this to make you listen to me, just stating it, my colleague, through Mr President. The relevant road maintenance management thus ensures the maintenance and repair of roads II in accordance with the establishment charter. and III. classes, etc. etc. I mean, if the regions could in 2015 thanks to the state contribution, respectively. through the State Fund to start with a more meaningful repair and maintenance of roads II. and III. the classes in which they continue in 2016 and 2017, while underfinancing remains in tens of billions of crowns, it is essential to continue this process. Otherwise, there would not be sufficient resources for the regions to be spent efficiently between 2015 and 2017, if there were, of course, a delay. In view of the need for a substantial improvement in the state of regional roads and a gradual reduction in their underfinancing, it is necessary to ensure a minimum long-term foreseeable financial amount for the State in the following years. It therefore appears crucial to maintain a contribution of 3 billion for 2018. CZK also in 2018. On the basis of these facts, I would therefore like to table an amendment according to the number of the House press 122. [[document]] However, let me introduce you to the House press, the 130 amendment, which relates essentially - the same explanatory memorandum - but in this case it is not an option or an alternative, but it is only 1.5 billion. Crowns. [[by document]] Same explanatory note. The same chapter that would go to actions financed by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and the Government of the Czech Republic - the subsidy title 298D22 and the additional item means of repairing regional roads II. and III. 1,5 billion classes, but only and only that it would withdraw in Chapter 3968 (?) The government debt, the government debt operator, is reduced by 1.5 billion, that is, from 45 892,500,000 to 44 392,500,000. The reasoned report is the same as the two House documents, which means 122 and 130. I ask the Chamber of Deputies on Tuesday for the third reading to support these two amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u15	Thank you. Mr. Jan Volný. After that, Mrs Aulická will speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u16	Thank you. Colleagues, my colleague, Mr President, I would like to sign up for this House document 131, which was created as a compromise for the need to address payments of social workers to the regions. This amendment arose in agreement, in agreement and after consultation of the Bureau, respectively. Gremium of the Budget Committee, in particular Mr Jan Skopeček, Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík, Jan Hrnčíř, Roman Onderka, President Miloslava Vostrá and Stanislav Juránek. The substance or substance of this amendment is that we propose to increase the expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the indicator of non-investment non-deliverant tariffs for social services subsidies by an amount of 1.5 billion. In essence, this amendment is also built in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, which has answered our request and sought resources in the budget so as not to disrupt material matters, that is, the general treasury, the service of state debt, and these are the delicate things that we should not disturb with these amendments. Whoever looks at it, you can see that most of these funds are used and taken by reducing current expenditures for most ministries across, so I think it is also so well understood and understandable. I beg all of you to support this alternative proposal, which is not entirely in full, but is sufficient and does not crash in the crucial parameters of the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u17	Thank you. Mrs Aulická. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, allow me, too, to apply to my two amendments. The first one is under House document 143 and it is my amendment and my colleague, Květa Matušovská. This is an increase in expenditure in Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in the specific indicator of non-investment non-payment transfers, subsidies for activities carried out by municipalities with extended scope in the field of social and legal protection of children by an amount of 220 million. And I'm humiliating the same amount in the same chapter for welfare benefits. I said the reasons at the first reading of the state budget, and I would simply say again that the subsidy is intended for the exercise of social-law protection for children, which focuses mainly on vulnerable children whose parents do not fulfil their obligations or exercise or abuse the rights arising from parental responsibilities, or focuses on children who lead a idle or immoral life consisting mainly of neglecting school attendance, drinking alcohol or other addictive substances, and are at risk of addiction and living prostitution or committing a crime. These funds are for employees' wages at OSPOD. I think that the personnel increase that took place over the course of three years, and now, in fact, the amount in the state budget for 2018 is actually decreasing by about 220 million, so it doesn't deserve it. And those communities really need that money. The second amendment is under House press 145. [[by document]] Again, it is my amendment and my colleague Květa Matušovská and is made in two variants. This concerns an increase in Chapter 313 to social services. In the first variant it is increased directly by 3.3 billion. and is taken from the chapter, as stated. In the second variant, I took the liberty to follow up, or rather to make it conditional on the adoption of the amendment, which my colleague Mr Jan Volný read here before me, where, as the compromise proposal says, 1.5 billion, but after all the increases in wages in social services, which took place by up to 43 percent, and the amount of 1.5 billion. It's just not enough. The calculation just corresponds to 14.9 billion. There is currently only 11.6 billion in the chapter, i.e. a minimum increase of 3.3 billion. It should be there. [[13.40 hours]] Allow me one more adjustment for variant 2 in point 2, where I reduce the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury, the contributions to the budget of the European Union, from the amount of 40 billion. 600 miles. 1 billion, i.e. 39 billion. 600 miles. Unfortunately, I missed 200 miles there. We kept throwing the amounts over and over, and that's why there was this mistake. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u19	Thank you. Mr Munzar will be next. In the meantime, I'll introduce you to your current apologies. From today's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, between 13.30 and 14.30 due to foreign travel, Mr Robert králíček apologizes. Mr Jiří Blaha apologizes for today's meeting between 14 and 16 o'clock due to the hearing. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear government, I would like to sign up for Amendment No 162. Specifically, it is a change in Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment, in the following way. I propose, together with my colleague Jan Zahradník, that the contribution to CENIA be reduced by 10 million. Crowns. In our opinion, this will not endanger the performance of her service, because despite the reduction, this contribution will increase by 7 million. CZK compared to 2016. And 10 miles. We propose to use the Landscape Care Programme, specifically to support the sub-programme for planting insulation greenery in the interior of settlements. It is our support to small municipalities so that they can take better care of the greenery in their territory, restore the trees and the like. We believe that this move will make the use of taxpayers' money more effective, because these funds will actually be seen in nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u21	Thank you. Another enrollment is Mr. Foldyna. After that, Mr Mihola will appear. Ambassador, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support my amendment, which bears No. 158. This is a reduction in expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration and an increase in expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration with the creation of an indicator of the 21st Century Craft - the Institute of Didactica Carolina. This is a project designed to ensure the competitiveness of crafts on the Czech market. The project is supported by the Czech Chamber of Commerce. I would not want to delay, everything is in the amendment. My second amendment is House Document No. 113, which reduces expenditure in Chapter 396 of the State Debt and increases expenditure in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration with the creation of the Born Project in 1918. This project is asking for 20 miles. CZK to create a unique documentary Born in 1918. The authors have been preparing this project since 2012. In 2012, 2013 and 2014, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Culture discussed support for this project, which included 78 hundred-year-olds who told their lives on camera. A project like this is being prepared. It is a very unique project for the 100th anniversary of the Czechoslovak Republic. Again, it is House document 113. So I am signing up for these two amendments. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u23	Yes, thank you. Another enrollment is Mr Mihola. After that, Mrs Válková will speak. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u24	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am putting forward a total of three amendments. I will start with one that is in the system as House document 94 and concerns education and education. I believe, at least according to the pre-election debates, it was clear that education and education are a priority of almost all the stakeholders here. Maybe all of them, so I don't get the wrong idea. I believe that you will find understanding and support for this proposed amendment, which is proposed first in Annex No. 3 to the Government Bill in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports that the indicator of expenditure increases by a total of 3 billion. 850 miles. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 3 to the government bill in Chapter 396 State debt will total expenditure indicator by this amount, i.e. by 3 billion. 850 miles. In addition, Annex No. 4 to the Government Bill, the indicators of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports increase by 3 billion. 850 million, that means, in the expense indicator, the figures will shift and replace us accordingly, I have it all accurately calculated, I do not want to delay it, it is in the aforementioned House document. In Annex No 4 to the Government Bill, the indicators of Chapter 396 of the State Debt are reduced by an amount of 3 billion. 850 miles. This will appear again in the total expenditure indicators and the government debt service with an adequate numerical refund. Shortly to the justification. First of all, I respond with this amendment to the different situation of state and non-state schools. When we're dealing with teachers' salaries, I think of my fellow teachers in particular. And I wouldn't want any kind of teachers to be created here. Unfortunately, they are. Teachers take it very hard, not unpleasantly, but they carry it hard and they see it as a great injustice. There is no way that after 25 years, even more than 25 years, we have alternatives in the form of private and church schools, nothing is happening. When else than now in a time of economic growth? Saying it's non-systemic now, we're not gonna deal with it now, we're gonna wait till we agree - we know how hard these deals are. Then there's gonna be a crisis or some kind of trouble, and no one's gonna figure it out. If that's really a priority, let's stop talking about words and let's talk about it. It is therefore necessary to really compare church and private schools with state schools, and not to receive it with an annual delay, even with some other question marks. I also know that, according to the majority of the parliamentary parties, the aim in education in general was to achieve a teacher's salary of 130 per cent of the average wage for 2021. We do not know how high the average wage will be, it seems far away, but I am pointing out that we do not really know what the economic situation will be, and we cannot afford to keep it for the last year, under the pressure of the union or with the threat of strike. I think that's unsystemic and wrong. On the contrary, we need to find a solution now. Some parties even promised not 130, but 150 percent, so they were even bolder. The salary increase of 15 per cent for teaching staff of schools established by municipalities, voluntary associations of municipalities or regions for 2018 amounts to 850 million for private and ecclesiastical schools, with which the budget presented does not therefore count. The standard for private and church schools is calculated as the average standard for schools established by municipalities, voluntary associations of municipalities or regions. Increasing the salaries of teaching staff in schools established by municipalities, voluntary associations of municipalities or regions from 1. 11. 2017 is thus reflected in the salaries of teaching staff of the schools of ecclesiastical and private only by two twelfths. [[13.50 hours]] The proposed regulation compensates for wage discrimination against the teaching staff of ecclesiastical and private schools. Furthermore, this is essential information related to this amendment, we propose a further increase in the salaries and wages of teaching staff of schools of all founders by 5% for 2018, which is 3 billion. Crowns. So, to make it really clear that we're serious about this and that it wasn't just under the pre-election pressure right now, that shift, because it can't be said, no matter who's claiming it, that it was planned by the Ministry, let's face it, it was really under pressure with the threat of strikes and before the elections, so no systemic preparations were going ahead of it when someone was arguing against it. I'm going to House Document 93. This concerns culture and a very well-known case, often a media-shaked, rotating auditorium in Český Krumlov, I do not need to describe it more closely, you know. Český Krumlov, UNESCO monument and the second largest castle complex in the Czech Republic. I propose an increase in spending, Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, the spending block of the contribution organization established by the Ministry of Culture, the National Heritage Institute by 50 million. CZK and at the same time reduction of expenditure in Chapter 396 State debt, indicator of government debt operation by 50 million. Crowns. I justify it as follows: This amount will be used by the National Monument Institute for the purchase of the Kvítkův Dvůr building with related land currently in the hands of a private owner. This purchase will allow the extension of the castle garden of the state castle and the castle of Český Krumlov by the theatre tract, into which the new rotating auditorium will be situated. This will allow the end of a long-term dispute between the Czech Republic and UNESCO consisting of the existence of a revolving auditorium in the castle garden. So I believe that this is a fairly understandable and simple thing and that it will find your support. In the third time, and I will be finished, House document 92, which mainly concerns the field of science, research and innovation and specifically the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic. I propose an increase in the budget of the expenditure of Chapter 361 of the Czech Academy of Sciences on a binding indicator of total research, development and innovation expenditure, including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes, by 100 million. CZK for 2018. Second, a reduction in expenditure in Chapter 396 of the State Debt, an indicator of the government debt service, by 100 million. CZK for 2018. Once again, I assume that we agree in the vast majority that science, research and innovation is the way where the Czech Republic, unlike other areas where we lost our position long ago or recently, but quite lost for a long time, so this is the area where we can break through. It led me to submit this amendment, admitting exactly as it was, actually, the situation on the school committee when this was discussed and when many colleagues from other parties said that it would be right and adequate, so I, as the rapporteur who has long supported the Academy of Sciences, said that I would accept the amendment, which I did, and therefore I am presenting it. And since there was no conflict, I really suppose we can agree on that. That supposed use of an increase of 100 million. CZK would be used to strengthen non-investment funds by the Czech Academy of Sciences for the development of research organisations of 85 million. CZK and the implementation of the Strategy of the Academy of Sciences 21 in the amount of 15 million. Crowns. And since it's still a lot registered - I could discuss it now, I've been dealing with it for a long time, I say, I'm a long-term supporter of the Academy of Sciences, but it's very detailed in that explanatory note you have at your disposal. Since it's in the system, I'm just going to end my exposure by saying that the required increase of 100 miles. The Czech Academy of Sciences' results in the spirit of its motto "Top Research in the Public Interest" could continue in the coming years. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I beg you in the third reading, then to support my amendments and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u25	Thank you. Mrs Válková, Mrs Langšádlová will be ready. Madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u26	Mr President, my dear colleagues, when I listen so much, I have a completely negligible amount in comparison with my previous speakers and the proposals they made as amendments to the state budget, which I will be discussing here, but she is not so negligible in terms of our international European commitments, because if the correction is not done, we will not comply with the European Parliament and Council directives of 2014. Specifically, what's going on. My proposal is inserted into the system under number 141 of 2017 into the House Press 2 and concerns the expenditure of Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration, the specific indicator of the government budget reserve is reduced by CZK 5 846 935 and the total expenditure of Chapter 309 The Ombudsman's office shall be increased by an amount of 5 846 935 in the relevant indicators, which shall be included and detailed and quantified in Annex 4. I'm not gonna read them here, but let me at least say a few words why not now. Because we are, of course, in the Committee on Petitions, the Ombudsman's budget, virtually. his workers were discussing and there was some unfortunate interplay of time circumstances. In fact, in the state budget, it was forgotten that we are an amendment to Act No. 198/2009 Sb. and the amendment to Act No. In essence, 365 have transposed Directive 2014/54 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 2014 on measures to facilitate the exercise of rights relating to the free movement of workers of EU Member States, specifically as regards the facts that will become subject to discrimination in the territory of a Member State. For example, Polák has been discriminated against in the Czech Republic and has been discriminated against because of its nationality. And we are obliged, and it comes to effect on 1 January 2018, to separate workers, and it has just been decided by the amendment on a new mandate, when such a worker became the Ombudsman, respectively. its employees, who will think that they have been wronged in connection with them or because they are nationals other than Czech, and are citizens of one of the Member States of the European Union, will be able to contact the Ombudsman and ask for support, legal aid, not as an attorney or advocate, but essentially providing qualified assistance and information. As I have already pointed out, this amendment, which transposes those European regulations, has become effective on 1 January 2018. In particular, it would be an increase of seven functional positions, which is exactly in 2018 and the following always plus minus will be the same sum of CZK 5,846,935. One last sentence, or one last sentence, why we haven't dealt with this in the course of the petition committee. Because the public defender did not want to complicate the situation for us and wanted to address this with some budgetary measures, and when we then checked what our obligations were and how we had to face it sooner or later, as soon as possible, we decided that the amendment would be a better correction to the proposal that we discussed than to use the instrument for budgetary measures during 2018. Besides, we couldn't make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u27	Thank you. In the meantime, there are other apologies that I'm going to introduce you to. Mrs Andrea Brzobohatá apologizes for today's meeting from 14:00 for working reasons, Mr Petr Třešňák from 14:00 for working reasons, and Mr Jan Richter apologizes for today's meeting between 14:00 and 16:00 for negotiations. We will continue with the detailed debate. Mrs Langšádlová, after her will be Mr Kaňkovský. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Mr Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sign up for an amendment to the state budget, which is under House document 72. This is an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, namely 131 billion. Crowns. [[Right miles.]] This is an increase for private and church schools. I would like to stress that this proposal corresponds to the amount that should have already been in the budget under the law, because there has been an error in the approval of the State Budget Act. I understand, probably because, on the same day, the draft State Budget Act was approved and public school tariffs increased, and this part, which was also to be increased for ecclesiastical and private schools, was not taken into account, despite the fact that it is actually a mandatorial expenditure. That's nothing more. It is only a mandatorial expense and this mandatorial expenditure is given by Law No. 306/1999 Coll., on granting subsidies to private schools. I therefore beg you to support this proposal, because it is really merely a correction of the omission that has taken place. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u29	I, too, thank you and please Mr Vít Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u30	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Both when discussing the first reading of the draft law on the State Budget for next year and when it comes to committee discussions and, after all, today at second reading, the question of the financing of social services for 2018 is very intensively discussed. In all discussions, the opinion will eventually prevail that the current draft state budget, which counts on the financing of social services for next year with an amount of 11.6 billion. CZK, it is unsatisfactory in this item and due to its high risk. The reasons why there is a need to increase the budget for funding social services have already been repeated here today. I will stress only the one essential here and this is the critical personnel situation in social services across the Czech Republic. The fact that this year we managed to negotiate an increase in pay rates and the financing of wages in wage-rewarding organisations is very positive. However, I believe that this was only a partial stabilization step and a way to stop the further departure of employees from social services, which would already threaten personnel collapse in this sector. Unfortunately, this very complexly negotiated step has no longer been followed up with budgetary preparations for 2018, which has already been said here today. As a positive assessment of the will across the clubs represented in the Chamber of Deputies to address this problem. I know that, following the negotiations of the Committee on Budgets and the accompanying resolution, he has been prepared and, today, a colleague, Jan Volný, has tabled an amendment that would raise the originally budgeted 11.6 billion. CZK 1.5 billion for social services. Crowns. I certainly see this as a helpful step, but on the basis of the social partners' calculations, including the Regional Association, there is a real need for funding social services of 3.5 billion. Crowns. The amount is 1.5 billion. The koruna is insufficient from this point of view. For this reason, I am proposing an amendment under the number of House document 142, to which I hereby formally declare. This amendment comes in two variants with an increase in the specific indicator of Chapter 31 of the MPSV of non-investment non-payment transfers to finance social services. There are two options. In variant A, this is an increase of 3.5 billion. CZK and in compromise variant B by 3 billion. Crowns. Here it must be said that an increase of 3 billion. there is a minimum that needs to be approved so that we do not distort the social services sector, and we know that this segment is already in great danger because of the aforementioned personnel crisis. Given that the current form of the budget structure of Chapter 313 of the MPSV does not allow the solution to finance social services only through transfers in this chapter, I propose a combined solution - partly by moving in chapter 313 of the MPSV itself and further by reducing the budget in Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration in a specific indicator of contributions to the budget of the European Union and in Chapter 396 of the State Debt in a specific indicator of expenditure on government debt management. Ladies and gentlemen, the final form of the state budget is always a compromise between needs and opportunities and, in many respects, the outcome of the political agreement in the Chamber of Deputies. In view of the really difficult situation in social services, I would like to politely ask the members of the Committee on Budgets and then all of us to proceed in a material way when discussing the financing of social services, so that we do not throw social services into a collapse. If, despite the turbulent situation on our political scene, we have largely agreed that this sector needs to be funded, then please find a common way to achieve this objective, regardless of party jurisdiction. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and for your wise consideration of solving this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u31	I thank you and now please Mr Juránek and Mr Kobza will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, let me also apply to House Document No 45, which was submitted in writing by Mr Jan Bartošek. This is a matter of gambling. As of 1 January 2017, the Act on Gambling entered into force. This law imposes a number of obligations and we can now partially evaluate it. Currently, 440 thousand are at risk of gambling and pathological gambling. persons over 15 years of age in the Czech Republic. I therefore direct your attention to this amendment, which also wants to address prevention, because I believe that it is not only possible to adopt the gambling law, tighten the conditions, but also to create an environment for prevention matters. This House document number 45 therefore proposes prevention against drugs, alcohol, nicotine, and other addictive substances to increase by 70 miles in Chapter 304. Kroner, in two variants. In the first variant against the service of state debt - internal government debt or second variant - general treasury administration, item government budget reserve. Thank you for considering the decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u33	Thank you. I will ask Mr Kobza and Mr Radovan Vích will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u34	Mr President, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to Amendment 108. In Chapter 306 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the expenditure of the external development cooperation indicator is reduced by 200 million. The number of crowns, that is, 696,166 miles. is replaced by 496,166 miles. Crowns. In Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration, the expenditure of the indicator reserve for extraordinary expenses under Act No. 239/2000 Coll., on the Integrated Rescue System, increase by 100 miles. Kroner, that means 60 miles. is replaced by 160 miles. In Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Social Affairs, expenditure on the benefit indicator for disabled persons is increased by 100 million. The crown, that means 2,9 billion. is replaced by 3 billion. [[14.10 hours]] The proposed financial volume of the expenditure block for external development cooperation in the budget chapter of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs contains other items in secondary expenditure, such as transformation cooperation, humanitarian aid, contributions to international organisations and money donations to selected institutions abroad, the renewal of Syria and the like, without sufficient specification. Therefore, we propose moving part of these funds into the expenditure block to reserve extraordinary expenses and to the general treasury administration, because the proposed volume is very low there and does not correspond to the current situation and potential risks of a variety of types. We all know that, in particular, our integrated rescue system has had to face many climate disasters recently, and the expenditure planned for it, given how these disasters are taking on frequency, we believe it was necessary to increase. Strengthening the part of the benefit of disabled persons within the budget chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, as this segment has long been significantly underfunded and disabled people are disadvantaged in terms of increasing and valorising their benefits. We therefore consider it necessary to increase it. As far as the activities of the Czech Development Agency are concerned, we certainly have nothing against continuing to support the production of livana cheese in Bosnia or Georgian cynology or drug action in Afghanistan, but we think it is unthinkable to justify why the budget for our integrated rescue system is so low. Just as far as for example. known case of rescue of a dachshund, which cost about 350 thousand. The crown, and the dachshund didn't stop it from saving himself. So please, when you approve the budget, think of our firefighters and paramedics, think of our people with disabilities, because if the money goes abroad, we'll be collecting eyelids on our people again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u35	Thank you and I will ask Mr Radovan Vích to prepare Mr Lubomír Volný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u36	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, I will be fairly brief. I would like to sign up in this way to the amendment, which was read under number 105 and which has already been mentioned here by Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Tomio Okamura. The aim of this amendment is a change in budget chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, where we only want to change the expenditure heading by 300 million within one spending block. The crown, which is intended for our soldiers for foreign operations. And on the other hand, this amount, 300 miles. CZK, we would like to move to the block providing support for the command of the Army of the Czech Republic. Together with me, this is presented by another 15 Members of the SPD. The aim of this amendment is that the funds that will reduce the planned expenditure from the expenditure heading to ensure involvement in operations and emergency services are used to increase the planned expenditure for the expenditure heading to provide support for the command of the Army of the Czech Republic with an emphasis on increasing the number of active advances, their intensive training and security. This measure aims to increase the capacity of active advances and, where appropriate, deployment in defence of the State. From my point of view, we have too many foreign operations. Adding forward forces to this in the Baltics and the new Prime Minister's proposals for the forward-looking deployment of our troops to Libya, I cannot agree with these views or suggestions. Foreign operations should not be a priority of the military. The military's priority is to secure the defence of our state's territory. I ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u37	Thank you, too. I will ask Mr Lubomír Volný to prepare Mr Mikuláš Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u38	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I hereby apply to the amendment introduced in the system under number 155. In my opinion, this proposal has already been sufficiently justified by the President of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, Mr Tomie Okamura. I would now just like to ask, unfortunately, through the President, the absent President of the Pirates Party to provide support in his club for this perfectly anti-discrimination and anti-racist proposal. Through the President, I would like to ask the President of the Pirates to send my message: Be an example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u39	I, too, thank you and ask Mr. Mikuláš Ferjenčík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u40	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for two House documents that I uploaded into the system. This is House Document No. 159 and House Document No. 163, so I apply to these two and load them. The first one, number 159, is a widely quoted proposal in the press to reduce the budget of the Office of the President of the Republic. It is an amount of CZK 1 022 000 and we propose to use the funds to prevent drugs, specifically we would like them to be used to combat alcoholism. Why are we suggesting that? We believe that security measures at the Castle do not contribute to security and only cost taxpayers money. The amount of 1 022 000 is a specific amount spent by the Prague Castle Administration to strengthen itself and complicate life for people who go to work through the Castle. Unfortunately, we don't think it serves to increase security. On the contrary, there are large queues of people, actually creating a potential target for terrorists. And even security experts say that while airport controls, for example, make sense, the Castle is not taken happily in that area. So we wanted the House symbolically to express its support for the fact that security measures are in the format as they are, i.e. the barriers and barriers, cancel, and thus reduce the Castle's budget by this particular amount. I think the prevention of alcoholism is a good thing and perhaps the entire House should have no problem supporting this. Another House press, document 163, here we propose to increase the college budget, i.e. Chapter 333, by 400 miles. Crowns. We see the reserves in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, in operating expenses. There are huge IT expenses. We believe that the savings in the range of 3.9 % on the operation are completely real. That is why I am presenting these two amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u41	Well, thank you. Mr. Jakub Michálek reported to me first from the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am putting forward a motion for an accompanying resolution on what is already put forward by the government. The resolution would read as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government ensure transparency of expenditure by the end of June 2018 through the so-called 'State'. the Member State's clicking budget, where it will be published in an open format, both the budget of the State for 2018 and its implementation up to the level of specific expenditure, after excluding data where the law does not allow publication.'; The end of the proposal, as I tabled it for the accompanying resolution. This is how I meet the demands that were made during the debate, which means that individual Members, for example, complained. on the fact that they do not know what budget expenditure is going on, whether it be associations or not, but in particular I come up with a request that is being made in civil society that it is not clear what means are being spent on individual ministries. [[14.20 hours]] It is clear that this so-called. a clicking budget cannot include information that is under a classified regime, it cannot include items that are under a personal data regime. However, there should be information in this budget and, in particular, in the implementation of the budget, such as performance of public contracts, various subsidies and other similar information. These things should be in one place. The current solution that the state has, called. The Treasury monitor is inadequate because it only goes to the level of the budget, but there is no specific budget implementation. So if you want to promote the transparency of the state administration so that citizens can get to know the expenditure of the Czech Republic, I beg you to support this accompanying resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u43	Thank you, too. I now received a report from the O.R. from the rapporteur, Vostrá.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u44	Thank you for the floor. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to be the last to appear on this block, to read the technical specifications of Annex 2 of the resolution of the Budget Committee No. 31, Parliament's Press 2/2. In Amendment No 4 in Chapter 304, the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, in line with the text "District indicator "Total research, development and innovation expenditure, including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes', "total state budget' and "total institutional support', shall be supplemented by the text "and in other related indicators'. For Chapter 322 of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the following text is added: "Total research, development and innovation expenditures including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes' in this "total state budget' and in this "total dedicated support' shall be supplemented by the text "and in other related indicators'. Reason. The proposed changes will affect other related numerical indicators, which cannot all be listed in the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-15-ps2017-004-02-008-001.u45	Thank you, too. I'll see if anyone else in the O.R.'s checking in. At this point, I have no written applications, nor do I see anyone reporting in from the O.R., which is the end of the debate. That concludes the second reading of this proposal. We're getting to the next point, which is the point.
