ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u1	291. Oral inhalation Just allow me to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And to apologize to Mrs Michaela Marksová, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, from 16.45, Mr Kudela apologizes, from 14.30 to the end of the day Minister Stropnický, further apologizes Mr Pavel Šrámek from the afternoon meeting, Mr Petrtýl from 16 a.m., further apologizes Minister Ludvík from 17 a.m. and between 14.30 a.m. and 19 p.m. Mr David Kádner, also Minister Chvojka, from 16 a.m. Those are excuses so we can count on it during the interpellations. We will begin by intersecting Mr Jaroslav Borka, who intersects the Prime Minister on lithium mining in the vicinity of Tínovka in the Ore Mountains. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u2	Dear Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about information about the lithium site in the vicinity of Tinovka in the Ore Mountains, which is referred to as the second oil. Lithium is a key raw material of the future and new technologies. According to the information that came to me, your government is thinking of selling mining to the U.S. company Tesla, Geomet, a member of the European Metals Australian consortium. The company Cínovecká deponie, owned by the group RSJ billionaire Karel Janeček, is also of interest. Under Tin Man, as you know, lies a vast supply of tin, lithium, but also tungsten. There is no other such great source in Europe yet. The economic return on the bearing is indisputable. My question, Prime Minister, is: What is the government's intention for this national wealth? Will lithium benefit from a foreign company that will take profits abroad? Or a private man who gets rich and stands by? Could lithium benefit from a state-owned enterprise controlled by the government of this Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u3	I also thank the honourable Member for not taking all the time, and we can therefore have more intervention. The Prime Minister will answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u4	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I would like to thank the Member for his interest in the lithium issue. I think that lithium can definitely be considered as one of the raw materials of the 21st century. This is best demonstrated by the use of this interesting mineral material. In the form of compounds it is used in the production of rechargeable batteries for portable electronics. That means we're talking about mobile phones, tablets, notebooks, cameras, but also medical devices. The use of lithium in batteries for electric cars or energy storage can also have great potential. Besides these new modern applications, lithium compounds are also used as a flux in the ceramic and glass industries. They're used as lubricants. They're also used in pharmaceuticals. The list shows that this is actually a very, very interesting raw material. In the Czech Republic, raw materials of this type are mainly linked to lithium mica, mainly cinvaldite. Overall, the state balance of the recorded domestic geological stocks is about 160 thousand tons of lithium, of which nearly 142 thousand tons are held as non-financial reserves. However, these data are very often from the 1960s, 1970s, and 1980s. The relevance of this data is critically analysed by employees of the Czech Geological Service. Registered domestic stocks and resources at European level are concentrated virtually exclusively in the Ore Mountains region. This means we are talking about the areas of Cínovec and Vernéřov u Aše and also the Slavkovský Forest, where it is the district of Krásno, Horní Slavkov. Lithium is one of the strategic raw materials, which have also been established within the framework of the European raw material strategy, and thanks to its use in modern technologies, which I have already mentioned, it is a raw material that we should be interested in using and, if possible, maximum appreciation in the Czech Republic. Regarding the specific activities concerning the acquisition of lithium here in our country, there is the activity of the company Cínovecká deponie, which prepares for the transfer of secondary bearing Tínovec pond, where it is estimated that there is approximately 2.3 kilotons of lithium. This bearing is made up of waste material after the gravitational treatment of tinwolfram ores that occurred there. This means that this project has a strong side in terms of improving the environment, because it will mean eliminating the old environmental burden in the form of overhanging this wasteland. At the same time, the price of the raw material will be obtained and the local workforce will be employed. Since the Czech Republic is an open economy, we are part of the European market, they are naturally interested in these mineral resources and foreign companies. This is the case as well as the activities of Geomet, which cooperates with the Australian company European Metals, which strives for deep lithium mining in the locality of Cinovec. The tin is large, but from the point of view of cavity according to the data available to me, a relatively poor lithium bearing. This means that it cannot be completely mentioned here that the economic return on the bearing is indisputable at the moment. According to the evidence available to me, there is no reason for such a claim at present. Economic return can only be discussed on the basis of a standard balance sheet, i.e. a feasibility study and a complex calculation of raw material stocks. Without these documents, a viable bearing-use project cannot be prepared. In order to obtain these qualified initial information, it is necessary to carry out a detailed bearing geological survey. Its initial phases in this mentioned territory are still underway. The purpose of this initial geological survey is not only to obtain information on the quantity and quality of the raw material, but also the necessary data and parameters needed to assess all potential future projects in terms of their environmental impacts. I also consider this part of the issue to be very important. The question not only of the economic advantage of such mining, but also of the environmental impact in the locality.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u5	Prime Minister, five minutes have passed, so only in the supplementary question. In the supplementary answer it is possible to complete. I'm sorry, I liked to hear it, but there's nothing I can do. Please, Mr Borka with an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u6	Prime Minister, I just want to ask you one more question. You were talking about the pond. That means piles - the RSJ company already has billionaire Janeček, who has obtained allowances. And I'm talking about a bearing where we're going to do some research, whether there's even a company here, or whether you're counting on this very interesting material to be mined by a purely Czech company with control from the Ministry of Industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u7	Yes. That was an additional question. The Prime Minister may answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u8	Yes, thank you. I'm sorry, this issue is really complicated. I would just like to say, if anyone wants to benefit, they have to meet all the legal conditions associated with it. As for the subject that he might become involved in this matter in some way, I think this is an interesting subject, and I will inform the Minister of Industry and Trade, under which Diamo is a state enterprise. I think that, in the context of this state enterprise's business plan, they should consider whether they should be involved, for example, in such business activities. I can't think of another state entity in this context. But it is indeed a question of business intention, ability, possibilities, capacity of this state-owned company, whether activities of a similar type could be prospectively interesting for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u9	Thank you, Prime Minister. We will now proceed to the second interview, and this is the interpelation of Mrs Markéta Wernerová to the Prime Minister on the issue of long-term unemployment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u10	Dear Prime Minister, the government has long been dealing with one of the key topics of our society, the issue of unemployment. Although unemployment in the Czech Republic is falling and is one of the lowest in Europe in the long term, the individual workplaces of the labour authorities still face citizens who do not have jobs for various reasons. They don't often want to work, or they don't even know anymore. My question therefore points to the ways in which the government is fighting long-term unemployment and what role the Czech Labour Office plays in this possible solution. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u11	Thank you, Mrs Wernerová. The Prime Minister has five minutes to answer on this matter. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u12	Thank you. That's right. While we are in the situation of a country that has the lowest unemployment within the European Union, this has improved significantly since the crisis, that is, we are now moving on unemployment figures, which has been here around 2008 before the economic crisis broke out, but we still have about 360 thousand people in the register that are in this register. I want to assure you, honourable Members, that the government places great emphasis on trying to employ these people primarily. The last time I stressed this was when we had a debate this week on tripartite with employers and trade unions, because employers are pushing the government over and over again to allow faster imports of labor from abroad. Here I think the government must act wisely, that is, we must examine whether we do not have these people here with us, whether we can primarily employ our unemployed and only in professions where there is an obvious shortage and we are unable to cover them from domestic sources, so we should allow imports of workers from Ukraine. But I would warn again, these processes must be under control, the government must control them. Workers from regions that are culturally and religiously close to us should come so that we do not get into trouble in the future. The report, which is good, is that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs was among the ministries that managed to draw the best European funds last year. This is because we are succeeding in involving European money in promoting active employment policy. Individual action plans are being developed for people who have been at the employment office for more than five months, which means trying to work with these people individually at best. It is an effort to use specific instruments of active employment policy. The new thing we have introduced is the commuting allowance we have been providing since April last year. At this point, some 644 commuter contributions have already been granted to people who are long-term unemployed, who have found jobs or who have found jobs, and we are helping them to cope with it, with the costs associated with commuting. A one-off transfer allowance has also been introduced, but it does not seem to have found much use yet. We use community service, socially efficient jobs and we also use retraining. These are the instruments we finance from European funds. I am glad that the Ministry of Labour is doing well in this regard and is one of those ministries that started to draw the fastest last year new European funds, but we are also using domestic funds. What we emphasize in the area of retraining is the effectiveness of retraining, because I myself personally met people with a number of reactions to the fact that their experience was such that they were doing retraining for retraining. People did not feel that the courses they attended would somehow improve their chances of applying to the labour market. What I put emphasis on towards the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is to cooperate with employers as much as possible in terms of retraining. I consider the most effective retraining to be those already associated with a specific job, where the worker prepares for a specific job. So here I think that the emphasis on individual work with individual applicants and the ability of the state to offer them support so that they can return to the labour market is important. But what is very important is also the motivation to work, the amount of wages that are offered. It is also important that they deduct from the money that companies offer, the money that you pay for commuting, so that the employees in the net are left with more than they would possibly receive on social benefits. That is why the step that we are making is so important that every year we gradually increase the minimum wage to make it worthwhile to work. What we are discussing right now and what we are going to discuss in the coalition next week is a proposal to motivate families with children even more, which means that families with children where someone works have a chance of higher child benefits than those with children where no one is economically active. I would like to see this instrument, which will help families, but at the same time help motivate them to work, to be able to use it from the government's point of view. The aim is, therefore, to get as many people into the labour market as possible, to take advantage of the good economic situation, to reduce as many people as possible, who are still in the register today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister. I'm asking if my colleague has an additional question. That's right. Please, colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u14	Dear Prime Minister, I am glad to hear this information, because the mobility of the workforce you mentioned was included in this project in the Karlovy Vary Region's test project. I hope you continue it, virtually. Department of Labour and Social Affairs. I would very much like to ask that this project be extended to a larger range of potential applicants, not just long-term unemployed, because I think, just as I have been communicating with employers, it is this contribution that is very much acknowledged. My region is very difficult in that it borders with Germany and we are dealing with a large labour drain in Germany. The motivation of a potential worker to receive up to CZK 3,500 to commute to work is great. So there's a request from me to extend this project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u15	Thank you, Mrs Markéta Wernerová. The chairman will use two minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u16	I'm sure I'd be happy to use them. Ladies and gentlemen, on the one hand, since November last year, it has been possible to obtain this contribution throughout the Czech Republic. It is also important that people know about this. When they are long-term unemployed, over five months, and they find jobs, they have a chance to get a limited amount of commuting allowance depending on how much commuting costs. I agree that this is a good measure. I'd like it to continue. I will certainly motivate the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs to try to expand their use and to use the funds effectively there in this way. I just wanted to say one more thing. Speaking of the Karlovy Vary Region, I recently visited the office of employment. We were discussing the situation in individual regions. I know that in the Karlovy Vary Region there is a problem with depopulation and, on the one hand, that there are parts of the Karlovy Vary Region, where there are really no larger employers. But what we are meeting there - and I am glad that the work of the Labour Office has also been focused on - is the problem that some people work in Germany and are trying to receive benefits from us. This means that we are also trying to prevent the abuse of our social system. In particular, the Karlovy Vary regions were subject to control actions aimed at these very cases. I would like, in addition to providing support and helping people who deserve it, who are in a difficult life situation, so that labour authorities also have the capacity and the strength to check that the funds we spend are not being used in this way, because that is not what the money is. They serve to get people into the labour market, but they should not be used to cheating on the state, working abroad, and here they are trying to receive social benefits, such as unemployment benefits. Control actions have led to a number of these people being eliminated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We can continue with the third interpellation. This is Mrs Alena Nohavová's interpellation with regard to health insurance. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u18	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, citizens often ask me how money is handled by Czech health insurance companies and, above all, the largest health insurance company, namely VZP, is being sponsored by VZP, especially at the present time, even in connection with the Czech television programme Atlet of the year. I understand it's good to promote sport for both health and health, but what's nice doesn't always have to be good. That kind of sponsorship comes from the money to treat patients. I dare say it goes to the detriment of the sick in this case. We are here arguing about the salaries of doctors, nurses, not being paid in time to doctors and hospitals for operations and examinations, delays in operations and waiting times are several months. Even by means of collections and foundations, citizens are composed of so-called. rare diseases and oncological diseases, where insurance companies do not pay for such patients additional treatment, rehabilitation, and the supplements in this case are significant. Other insurance companies collect and manage huge money to prevent and treat their policyholders, who have to pay compulsory insurance contributions to insurance companies under the law each month, and clearly a small amount of funds so collected has been used to promote competition. I don't think competition is appropriate here. And that's why my question is very simple. I'm asking if the government will return to a better and cheaper model of one health insurance company. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u19	Thank you, Mrs Nohavová, for keeping time on the question, and the Prime Minister has his first five minutes to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to stress that, as regards the activities of the largest health insurance company, the General Health Insurance Company, it is subject to control not only by the Government, i.e., by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Finance or perhaps the Supreme Audit Office, but also by the representatives of insured persons, which are representatives of the parliamentary parties elected on the basis of representation in this Chamber of Deputies. This means that there is a relatively wide possibility of control, because the representatives of the parliamentary parties sit on the Board of Directors of the VZP and are also represented in the Supervisory Board of the VZP, which is our dominant and largest health insurance company. I'm glad that the numbers I have at my disposal show that the limit to the operation of health insurance companies has decreased. I consider this to be an extremely important trend. This means that the limit has decreased to a little over 3%, and if I look at the expected reality for 2016, the maximum level of the costs of the activity, which relates to VZP, is 2,91 %, i.e. VZP is below this limit from the point of view of the costs of its activities. However, this does not mean that we should not try to make maximum savings in terms of the functioning of VZP. So I would certainly ask the Member after this interview, I would exactly note the example of the sponsorship that the Member spoke of, and I will inform the Minister of Health, that through the representatives of the Ministry of Health in VZP, in so far as this concerns the VZP, they open up a debate on how the spending of funds should look like on this matter. We have taken a number of steps in the past, and I want to thank this Chamber of Deputies for this, where we have limited the tug-off between our health insurance companies. I consider this an important thing, because it is completely pointless for insurance companies to fight each other through a network of dealers who pay for being dragged by clients here, but competition should be based on the quality of services offered to insured persons. As for the number of insurance companies we have, I can imagine that the number could be even lower. As part of the discussion, when we put this government together and this government coalition, we opened up the subject of a possible reduction in the number of health insurance companies, but I must say that we did not agree on this in the coalition. We did not agree that we could reduce the number of insurance companies during this term. I would consider it rational if at least there was a chance to start a debate on the merger of the General Health Insurance Company, the Military Health Insurance Company and the Ministry of the Interior Health Insurance Company. These are, say, the three health insurance companies that have the largest public sector ties, and I think that this step could lead to some rationalization of the health insurance system. I do not think that we should strive to have only one health insurance company, certainly not in one quick step, but I think that it could contribute to the rationality of the system, to cost efficiency, if we merge insurance companies that are linked to the state and the public sector in the coming years into one health insurance company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u21	Thank you. I ask Mrs Nohavová - she is not interested in an additional question. Thank you, Prime Minister. And we will continue with Mr Pavel Plzák's fourth interview on government cooperation with MEPs, meant certainly for the Czech Republic, in the European Parliament. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u22	Dear Prime Minister, I recently had the opportunity to attend the plenary session of the European Parliament and to speak with our MEPs. The whole process of discussing individual matters on the ground of this representative body has been explained to me. MEPs are in a position to reflect the opinions of their parent parties for which they have been elected to the European Parliament and, at the same time, under the strong influence of the various factions in which they operate in this Parliament. They are also expected to defend the national interests of the Czech Republic across the political spectrum. In an interview with them, however, a complaint was repeatedly made about the lack of communication with the Ministry of the Government of the Czech Republic, by the ministries. In their decision-making they often need to know the opinions of the Czech Government and its ministers on individual issues, but unfortunately even on repeated request the Czech party does not respond. That is why I want to ask you, on the basis of which system the cooperation of the government with Members elected for the Czech Republic to the European Parliament is coordinated, who is responsible for this cooperation and communication and why it does not work in many cases. What can be proposed for this cooperation to become effective, and if such actions are prepared by the government, when could they be put into practice? If you want to know the specific cases that I have discussed here in general, I recommend that you refer to MEP Mrs Dlabajová and her colleague Mrs Charanzová, whom we have dealt with. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u23	Thank you, Mr Plzák. The Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, regular communication with the Czech MEPs was set up in the moment after the establishment of our government. I must say that previous governments did not sufficiently exploit the potential of Czech representatives in the European Parliament to promote our interests. I must say that, as Prime Minister, I am in regular contact with Czech representatives in the European Parliament, meeting with Czech MEPs at least once a year, discussing the priorities of the Czech Government on the European agenda. The last such meeting took place on 14 October last year. I also want to make it clear that I invite all the representatives of the Czech Republic who are in the European Parliament to meet with MEPs. We meet at this level. Of course, it is up to every MEP to make use of this option or not. Many MEPs do not feel the need to attend such meetings, but this is a matter that I can hardly influence as Prime Minister. In any case, with those MEPs participating in the negotiations, and I suspect, apart from one faction, all the political groups participated in this meeting in October, we are in regular contact and receive feedback from them across the political spectrum on how our permanent representation works in Brussels and how our government's structures work. In addition to the regular meetings that I have as Prime Minister, the Czech MEPs meet regularly and communicate with the State Secretary for European Affairs in individual specific European agendas. MEPs and MEPs were also involved in consultations in the preparation of the policy concept of the Czech Republic in the EU, which was approved by the Government on 27 April 2015. [[15.00 hours]] Cooperation is also taking place in the form of sending all framework positions approved by the Committee for the European Union at both labour and government level. This means that all Czech MEPs have the current positions of government on the legislative proposals under discussion at European level. Before plenary sessions in Strasbourg and Brussels, information on the position of the Czech Republic from a government perspective on priority legislative proposals is sent to our Members. Members can take into account the position of the Government of the Czech Republic when voting in plenary if they want, and it really depends on them. I would like to drop by here a little bit, because, naturally, the government itself cannot interfere with the functioning of the European Parliament. Our MEPs, as has also been said here in this question, are part of the various political groups in the European Parliament. These political groups agree on a common approach and not always the majority positions in these parliamentary factions in the EP are in line with the interests of the Czech Republic. It is then up to individual MEPs whether they prefer the position of their political faction or prefer the position of the government of the Czech Republic. However, I believe that every MEP has the opportunity to verify very quickly and to find out what the government's position is on the key issues that are being discussed and decided at European Parliament level. The Permanent Representation of the Czech Republic to the European Union in Brussels also communicates on a regular basis with MEPs and MEPs. I understand that the interpellation was about another plane, that is the plane of communication with the various ministries. There is communication from the perspective of the government, Prime Minister, Secretary of the European Union, Permanent Representation in Brussels, and then there is communication from individual ministries. Naturally, if there are specific examples of where the ministries have not responded to questions from Members of the European Parliament, I would ask if I could hear these specific examples, so that I can talk to the members of the government about it, to point out that this is not working in a good way here. We just need this form of feedback. Otherwise, I will certainly hold a meeting with all MEPs this year. If those Members of the European Parliament have these specific reservations, I would certainly like to invite them specifically to this meeting, and we can talk about these matters there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u25	Thank you for the answer and the supplementary question of Mr Plzák. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u26	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your response and for your willingness to address this problem. I have promised the aforementioned Members that I will present this problem here and that I will introduce you to it and that I will be happy to have them dealt with in some way. What is actually involved is obviously cases where they require a quick position. And the fact that this is not working completely shows that, for example, Mrs Charanzová has specifically hired a person who, in fact, when I say this to the public, has a member of our ministries. So I'm sure the solution is if Secretary Prouza walks in the negotiations, and there's certainly a way to find a viable solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u27	Thank you. Does the Prime Minister still want an answer? Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u28	Yes, thank you. Maybe I'd take advantage of that, I think we can speed things up. So maybe this can be a guide for our members of the European Parliament. In the event that some ministry does not respond adequately, it is good to contact Tomáš Prouza's Secretary for the European Union directly so that he can deal with these matters directly. I am just saying this because the coordination of our MEPs will now be particularly important. It will be particularly important for Brexit, because, after all, the conditions and contracts will also be approved by the European Parliament, and we, like the Čech, should agree on what our priority national interest is and how we will proceed within Brexit. So I see this as one of the important topics for this next meeting with our MEPs, which the Office of the Government will organise. I also see this as an important topic for negotiations with the political parties represented here in the Chamber of Deputies. At the latest in February, I would like to hold a meeting of the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, so that at this top political level we agree that we will proceed together in terms of protecting Czech interests if this is a Brexit meeting. I think this is one of the most serious topics that is before us at the moment, and we should not resign from trying to find a common national position, which will then be held by the government, which will be held by individual political parties, but which will also be held by our representatives, which we have chosen for the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u29	I thank the Prime Minister, and we continue with the fifth interview. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka on railway station buildings of České dráhy is the reason for this. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u30	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, on the line Staré Město - Bylnice, a former railway station, several railway buildings are closed, for example in Újezdec u Luhačovice. In addition, for most of the day, more buildings are closed, such as the railway station in Bojkovice, where people from the surrounding villages transfer to buses and have to stand out in the cold. The Újezdec u Luhačovice is a transfer station from the Vláře railway to the Luhačovice spa, where many tourists and tourists travel, as well as spa employees. The railway station is closed all day and this year passengers must be forced to transfer here due to the cost of keying between the state and the region. Why will the state allow the Czech Railways to close the railway stations that were built for state resources and recently cost-corrected by the state, such as the railway station building in Bojkovice with a cost of CZK 250 million? Passengers, mayors of municipalities, but also employees of the Czech Railways do not understand this abnormal condition. I want to ask you what the government will do through the management committee of the Czech Railways and representatives of the State in the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways, so that the said stations will be open all day again with their social facilities. I received a reply from the Minister of Transport that, for example, the station Bojkovice and Újezdec became part of the long-distance traffic management in 2014 to 2015 that this contributed to reducing the total costs and their operation is the management from the central control office in Přerov. In conclusion, it may state that in both cases, the change in opening hours or the way passengers are checked depends on the decision of the carrier concerned. But these are only České dráhy in the present case, because another carrier does not ride this track. So I want to ask what the state and government will do so that the stations can be reopened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u31	Thank you. The Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u32	Thank you. honourable Members, this really is rather a subject for the Minister of Transport. As I have heard the citation from the Member in the reply, I have the impression that we have received the same answer, because I have turned to Mr Hovorka for the Minister of Transport here, and he has given me an answer to the interpelation. I could read it here right now, and I guess none of us would be happy. However, the information shows that Mr Hovorka may know more clearly, it follows that the railway station is in some kind of operation in Boykovice. This means, according to the information I received from the Ministry of Transport, the cash desk should be opened there, and that morning from quarter to five to about quarter to one with two breaks for the worker or worker who is there. In Újezdec u Luhačovice there is no check-in and should take place here on the train with the fact that logically there is pressure on SŽDC to reduce costs to increase efficiency. That means, I understand that SŽDC is trying to find such models of operation here in these devices to reduce costs. And on a number of our stations there is an infrastructure that has been widely used in the past, but there is no great use for it today. I just want to say that I hope that the government has transferred another part of the railway station from České dráhy to the Railway Infrastructure Administration, which is actually an area at the very border of Moravia and Slovakia, so that it will allow investment funds to be used and will also allow money from the European Union to be used for many of those stations to finally be repaired. [[15.10 hours]] I think it is necessary to look for concrete projects in cooperation between cities and municipalities to address the use of these railway stations related to infrastructure. It's just that today the traffic in a number of places isn't as lively as it was in the past, the whole type of activity that was organized at those stations. We have buildings left there, and I think it is an opportunity for joint projects of municipalities, towns and SŽDC, possibly using European resources, so that we can give some of these buildings a new use, so as not to disfigure parts of our municipalities and cities and at the same time to enable the operation and provision of elementary comfort for passengers. I'm not happy with what our station looks like. I am not satisfied with how a culture of travel is ensured in a number of places, so I would certainly lie here if I tried to convince the Member that everything is ideal, that everything works ideally, that we are not closed, walled, walled-up railway stations in a number of places where it just doesn't look good at all. I am ready to have a debate with the Railway Infrastructure Administration, I will be interested in what specific projects they have prepared to repair railway buildings, and I am certainly prepared to have a debate on how to improve the specific situation, especially in Bojkovice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u33	Thank you. Mr Hovorka is interested in additional questions. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u34	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. But, you know, those traveling citizens who are using traffic don't even care if the property is owned by the Czech Railways or the property of the Railway Infrastructure Administration, they don't care whether it's a stock exchange or a state enterprise, but they're wondering if a specific railway station, a railway station building will be open or closed. For example Újezdec u Luhačovic, it is a transfer station where tourists go to Luhačovic, it is a display cabinet of the Zlín Region and it is a shame when people have to stand outside in the cold. These people really don't get it, and they're like, "Well, if you found the money to invest in buildings and in traffic and equipment, why don't you put the money on it - or where do you put the money to open the space and use it? When the Czech Railways or the Railway Infrastructure Administration looks into Austria or Germany, they see a functioning railway station and maintained railway stations. So I think it takes the state to push both organizations a little bit to try to fix this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u35	I thank Mr Hovorka. Before the Prime Minister answers the supplementary question, I state Mr Martin Komárek's apology from 14.30 to the end of the day. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u36	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I find it difficult to argue with Mr Hovorka on this matter. Just because I agree. People don't care if the station building belongs to the Czech Railways or SŽDC. However, it is important. As you know, the Czech Railways are not in a very simple situation, they are exposed to strong competition. Logically, they need to focus on keeping the lines in line to stand in a number of competitions that are and may be ahead of them. And we need someone to take care of the rail infrastructure for the long term. That is why I have long been a supporter of the key infrastructure being transferred to SŽDC, and I think it will also allow us to use European funds and involve public money in order to gradually repair the station. But it also requires intense interest from municipalities and cities. Otherwise, I would like to propose to Mr Hovorka that we both not be satisfied with the formal response we received from the Ministry of Transport. Perhaps we could meet with the Minister of Transport, the Director of the Railway Infrastructure Administration, and talk to them about whether SŽDC has any plan for using the railway stations in the region that Mr Hovorka mentioned here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u37	Thank you. This interpelation is over. We will continue to interpel the sixth Mr Radim Fiala on the issue of carrying weapons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u38	Thank you. Madam Members, honourable Members, Prime Minister, the forthcoming European directive on arms will have a much broader impact than previously foreseen. The current proposal assumes that the owners of air guns that once belonged to the equipment of every boy, impaired weapons, gas guns, or replica rifles, will have to register their weapons to the police. There is no mention at all that some technical characteristics of ammunition and weapons will be part of these restrictions. Dear Prime Minister, we have heard from you and from other politicians, such as Minister Chovanec, many assurances that you are against restricting the right of a citizen to legally hold a gun. However, I want to ask you quite openly whether the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, including the Treaty of Lisbon, does not imply our obligation at a certain time to transfer these decisions adopted at the level of the institution of the European Union to Czech legislation. I would like a simple answer - yes, we have such an obligation or no, nothing like that can threaten us, the Czech Republic is still a sovereign country and the right of a citizen to legally hold a gun will decide on his own. Again, I don't want to hear anything but an answer to this simple question. If you say that the European Union does not have the opportunity to push these things into Czech legislation, it will undoubtedly calm us all down. However, if you tell us that the institutions of the European Union have this competence, it is a clear message that the Czech Republic is not a sovereign country and there is a salami method for the disarmament of citizens against which we are completely helpless. And we are completely helpless if we do not get out of the European Union. Prime Minister, please tell us who decides on the possibility of a Czech citizen to defend himself with a legally held weapon. The Czech Government or Brussels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u39	Thank you. The Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u40	Thank you. honourable Members, the proposal for a revision of the Firearms Directive is an important battlefield for the Czech Government. The proposal was made by France. I don't want to blame France because France is under a lot of pressure - under a lot of pressure from an impaired security situation, the pressure of brutal terrorist attacks. I do not want to blame the French Government for trying to find a way to strengthen the prevention of terrorist activities. But this road is wrong. The Czech Government is convinced that this will not solve anything. Just the time, the energy we devote to this debate at European level, is something that we could have used more productively and efficiently. In our opinion, the proposal goes against the interests of the Czech Republic. We believe that it will have a negative impact on the security situation by putting pressure on the transition of parts of legal weapons to an illegal sphere so far, which is, of course, wrong, and the tendency in this direction is already apparent. The directive will undoubtedly turn the moods of a number of people against the European Union, because in a number of countries, including the Czech Republic, this issue is not seen at all as something that should be addressed in priority, or as something that would create any background for potential terrorist activities in the future. I also want to mention the fact that at least part of the company has the possibility, based on legal conditions, to keep the weapon highly symbolic. It's part of the freedom we acquired after 1989. This directive, if it finally gets through, will also mean another burden for the state apparatus, because it will have to deal with another agenda associated with the new regulation of reservoirs or impaired weapons. The proposal has been going through and going through some changes to the debate. Some changes are positive from the point of view of the Czech Republic, others are not, but none of these changes have made the proposal acceptable to the Czech Republic. So we are not in a position to agree with such a proposal as the Čech. Moreover, I think that the discussion was very hurried, that there is simply a tendency to enforce something at all costs. And even in the negotiations that we conducted on quotas, for example, it turned out that the rush was useless. That the rush will only create unnecessary conflicts and bitterness, which are then very difficult to overcome within the European Union. [[15.20 hours]] So, as I have already said, for the reasons stated, we cannot support this proposal for a number of shortcomings, illogicality, administrative complexity and to a large extent nonsensicalness. The position of the Czech Republic is active from the very beginning. I would like to mention the fact that we have actually been very active in this debate, that we have been very active in presenting alternative proposals, we have tried to gain positions. Unfortunately, I have to say that the acceptance of this position in the relevant European Council was very small and we are difficult to find allies to promote this position. The closest position we have at this time is Slovakia, event. therefore, Switzerland, which is not a member of the European Union, we find certain contact areas with Poland and Finland. That basically defines the circle of our potential allies, and I think it's obvious that these allies aren't too many. The position of the Czech Republic is unique, which I would like to stress at the end of the time I have left. The structure of weapons held by Czech citizens is different from other states of the European Union. In the Czech Republic there is about one half of the weapons semi-automatic, especially the pistol, and the design for them can event. Catch. In other Member States, other hunting weapons are mainly held. I think that this proposal should accept this very different specific situation in individual countries and should allow individual Member States to have a certain degree of regulatory variability. Otherwise, I think it will cause a purely negative reaction. I can therefore confirm that our government does not agree with this proposal and we will look for legal ways of informing it. I would also like to inform -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u41	Mr President, if so in the supplementary answer. My colleague, Fiala, is about to ask a supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u42	Thank you. Prime Minister, thank you for explaining to us that the position of the Czech Republic in the European Union is zero, as well as the position of other small European countries, we know that, and that European directives are being voted on for so long as they are simply approved. It is clear that this European directive will be approved. I want to ask you the same question that I asked twice a moment ago - whether we will have to transfer it to Czech legislation and whether Brusel decides it, or whether we have any possibility that it will not be transferred to Czech legislation, and therefore the Czech Parliament and the Czech Government will decide whether the Czech citizen has a legal right to hold a gun.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u43	Thank you for the supplementary question, and the Prime Minister has a chance to answer these questions. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u44	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, before I got this interview today, I have agreed with the Minister of the Interior to meet, I think we have a meeting next week, and I have also invited legal experts from the Office of the Government and from the Ministry of the Interior, and we will discuss further progress. I would now like to know exactly our current situation, what the timetable for further adoption of this directive looks like, and we will also look into the situation in the European Parliament. This is not looking too good for the time being, because the main faction in the European Parliament seems to agree with this proposal. But I want to consult with the Minister of the Interior and with legal experts on all the possibilities we have as the Czech Republic to respond to this directive. I suppose then we will also inform the public and the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u45	Thank you to the Prime Minister, this interview is over and we will continue with the seventh interview, and this is Mrs Jitka Chalánková's interpellation with regard to the child welfare authority. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u46	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I have recently been approached by people who feel harmed by the actions of the Czech institutions of social-law protection of children and who feel that they are not being defended by the Czech authorities and courts. They're looking for them at my place. Unfortunately, unfortunate cases are growing. There are also cases where reason really remains in the state and which I consider to be institutional abuse of children and their parents by the state. I record more such cases, e.g. in Brno - Žabovřesky and others. Today I would like to draw your attention to the Pilsen case of the eight-year-old Vojtěch and his five-year-old brother Antonín, the relevant identification data will be given to you and to your secretary Marksová. My mother left my father's children at Christmas 2014 because my father was supposed to be violent with his children. The children were always afraid of the father and rejected him. That's what forensic experts said. They strongly recommended preventing children from contacting their father, even being deprived of parental rights. bohužel, OSPOD of the city district of Plzeň, social worker Andrea Vovolková, Edita Šípová and apparently their superior Dana Krausová interpreted this in their own way. They were entirely on the father's side, and it was said that there was pressure on the expert to rewrite the opinion in the spirit of the OPOD guidelines. Finally, another expert of the institution's social-legal protection of children is dedicated to so-called. syndrome of a rejected parent who was long ago described as unscientific and began to appear across the board in various decision-making procedures. The court, on a proposal from the institution of social law, placed children in an institution for a temporary period and banned the mother from having any contact with children, at that time being seven and four years old, with the aim of getting used to the supposedly over-care mother and not seeing the father as evil. Now children are in the care of the father, mentally and physically suffering, with the mother on whom they are still fixated, they are allowed to meet once a week for one hour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u47	Madame, I also beg you to keep time, given the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u48	Okay, I'll get the rest for the follow-up. Just one more sentence here. Mother is expressly forbidden to show children emotional affection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u49	Madam, I really don't. The Prime Minister is ready for an answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u50	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members. Perhaps I will not be too pleased with my response to the interpelation, however, with regard to the specific cases of children, specific cases of families, the principle is that neither the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs nor the institution of the social protection of children must comment on specific cases due to the legal obligation of confidentiality. Even if I were to turn to them in this form, through interventions that are actually broadcast on television, I would be heading to disrupt the legal protection of children's privacy and the privacy of these families. I think it is terribly unfortunate if such specific cases are being dealt with or have to be dealt with at some political level, at Parliament's level, at ministerial level, in the presence of the media. I think it's something that can do great damage towards specific people. I do not doubt that people may be dissatisfied with how the institution decides to protect children socially, that they may be dissatisfied with how the court decides, but I think that we have certain mechanisms here within the rule of law, instruments that we should primarily use. I also often say this because, although the Member here has expressively described relations in one particular family, we who do not live or know those people in that family have not been able to verify it, we are difficult to take a position on either side. I am also saying this because I myself grew up in a divorced family, and relationships between people are simply very difficult and difficult to judge from the outside, and they are certainly not to be judged here from the microphone in the Chamber of Deputies. So I'd like to ask that we be restrained in these matters. I don't want to question people's right to disagree or complain, and I don't want to say that every time these authorities decide in the right, impeccable way. There are possibilities to turn back, to file complaints under the administrative order against the measures decided by the court, it is necessary to defend itself solely through the use of procedural means in legal proceedings, including appeals. I must also say that the situation in society is not quite improving. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs records an increasing number of particularly break-up conflicts between parents, in which parents call for solutions to their family situation, and, of course, the resolution of these disputes is a very serious burden for the institutions of social-legal protection of children. Unfortunately, cases are often mediated, they often mediate that information is provided only by one parent, one who may be trying to improve his situation by turning to the media in any form. [[15.30 hours]] So I would like to ask whether we should address such matters to those who are to decide on them, it is the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, they are the individual bodies of social-law protection for children, and, if possible, when dealing with these specific cases, we have the utmost regard for the protection of the privacy of individual families. It's all about the kids. And I don't think anybody wants to read about themselves, about their family, about solving family problems in the papers or hearing it on TV.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u51	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mrs Chalánková is going to a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u52	I would certainly like to add my information, because unlike Norway, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has the possibility of supervising the various workplaces of the institutions of social-legal protection of children. And we have information that there is a great deal of pressure here, and these authorities often make decisions under the great pressure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, often differently than they would have wanted. I have this information from many of these institutions' departments. At the same time, I heard correctly the concept of administrative order. In 2011, the Ombudsman recommended by his interpretation that the possibility of transferring local jurisdiction to various cases should be possible if it is not satisfied from one or the other side with the institution's socio-legal protection of children, however, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs rejected, rejected and did not bring any new instrument. So I would like to ask the Prime Minister to realise that this is indeed a very serious situation, and he really has supervision over these workplaces, and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has responsibility for them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u53	Thank you. The Prime Minister is about to answer. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to underestimate it, I do not want to downplay it, it is certainly a topic for debate with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, if there are such serious general findings as were mentioned here by the Member. I just want us to actually work based on certain facts, less work based on emotions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u55	Thank you. Interpelation is over. Another interpellation, by interpelling number eight, is the interpelling of Mr Jan Zahradník on the issue of radioactive waste storage. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, I am addressing you because, as of 1 January of this year, an amendment to the atomic law has entered into force, which in its § 108 para. 4 says: "The procedure for determining the exploratory territory for the storage of radioactive waste in underground areas, the procedure for establishing a protected territory for the storage of radioactive waste in underground areas, the procedure for authorising the operation of radioactive waste storage and the procedure for ensuring respect for the interests of the communities to which the contribution from the nuclear account belongs and their citizens, in these processes, provides for a special law." Here it must be said that the municipalities that are potential candidates for the site for the exploration of future storage are well known, well known about their problem and some of them are protesting against it. At the turn of the year, I am thinking of a traditional march around the site of a possible location for the location of the repository to be selected in the village of Chanovice in West Bohemia. I noted that at its meeting this Monday, the government discussed the proposal for a substantive intention of the law on the involvement of municipalities in the selection of the site of the deep storage. I therefore ask you these questions: Will the organisation of municipalities, such as the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic or the Association of Local Authorities also be invited to create paragrafo? What position will the municipalities have in the process of choosing the site itself? At which stage of the selection process will the municipalities be contacted and who will communicate with them? And two other questions: How does the government intend to ensure that these processes have significant continuity and are not dependent on changes in our country's political structure? And the last question: How will the government ensure that information about the existence of the repository does not disappear from the awareness of the state or the population of the site in the far future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u58	Thank you. Madam Members, this question is appropriate not only because at the previous meeting of the Government we talked about the bill in question, and I will then comment very closely on it, but also by coincidence the Government Committee on Nuclear Energy met this morning and we discussed the topic of the construction of a new nuclear block at the Dukovany power plant, where the government's aim is to prepare these things well, because the Dukovany nuclear power plant is older and the reactors there, when it serves, will need replacement before the newer reactors, which at this time serve at the Temelín power plant. In our country, most people encourage us to go further through the use of the nucleus, or there seems to be a social consensus. However, we have not yet been able to cope quite well with the fact that the production of nuclear energy also produces waste that needs to be stored somewhere in the long term. And although most people support nuclear power generation, no one wants nuclear storage on their cadastral. For example, there have been referendums in almost all municipalities or in all municipalities that have been identified in the past as potential places for such a repository, citizens have had the opportunity to express themselves, and that referendum has mostly resulted in more than 90 percent of the citizens expressing themselves against such a project being considered or prepared at all in the cadastral of their community. So it's not an easy situation at all. I do not dispute the fact that citizens are not thrilled by the idea that such a challenging project should be implemented somewhere near their home. On the other hand, the government of a country that wants to operate nuclear reactors in the coming years must also address the question of where to go with it. She has to deal with it. He can't pretend the problem isn't here. We can't just rely on the fact that we're building warehouses and we have warehouses in the premises of existing nuclear power plants. We need to find some systemic long-term solutions. At this time, no location has been definitively selected in the Czech Republic for the location of a deep nuclear repository. There are discussions going on in several locations. It is possible that the area of sites will also be expanded in the future. It is also possible that it will be narrowed from the point of view of the works as they are prepared or implemented. There was an initiative that arose before our government started to adopt a special law to address the involvement of municipalities in the search for a site for deep-water radioactive waste storage. The proposal went through a commentary procedure. He brought with him a huge number of contradictions. It was submitted to the Legislative Council of the Government. The Government's Legislative Council has been extremely problematic about the proposal. I'm not sure - I feel that she rejected the proposal, as the government has been discussing it now. And the government respected the Government's Legislative Council's position, i.e. she did not approve this proposal, as it was prepared. We have imposed on the Minister of Industry the establishment of an inter-ministerial expert group to develop a new substantive intention of the law on the involvement of municipalities in the process of selecting a site for high radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel, in order to take account of the Government's Legislative Council's opinion that the Ministry of Industry has a new deadline for submitting a proposal by 30 June 2018 and then a standard legislative process will take place. With regard to the involvement of municipalities, I assume that representatives of municipalities will also be invited to this working group. It would make no sense that this bill, self-government, their umbrella organisations should not be represented in the working group, which will be in charge of this bill, the self-government, and its umbrella organisations. So I'm going to ask the Minister of Industry not to forget this in any way when he's setting up this task force. Otherwise, as far as the current situation is concerned, the government is currently following the approved concept of spent nuclear fuel management. This concept indicates seven sites where geological research is needed and, based on an evaluation of the survey, it will be possible to narrow this list to four sites that will be subjected to further analyses. This narrowing is planned for 2020 for now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u59	Prime Minister, thank you. Mr zahradník has an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u60	Thank you. The situation, Prime Minister, and I see that you are aware of this, is new in the fact that the obligation to prepare such a special law is laid down directly in the amendment to the atomic law. Now it's no longer some kind of government or ministry's will to try to get along with the municipalities and deal with them, but it's just one paragraph of the amendment to the atomic law. I had a follow-up question in the sense that you're probably guessing a bill to the House. So I understand it's not until after the election. Then my question will not be asked. Rather, I consider this process to be a long one. It would be good if, in relation to municipalities that feel a certain uncertainty, the process had been significantly accelerated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u61	Thank you. The President will answer the supplementary question. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u62	Thank you. honourable Members, yes, it is envisaged that the Ministry should re-submit its substantive intention by 30 June next year, that is to say 2018, or this will be the case for the next parliamentary term. I therefore assume that the government that emerges from the parliamentary elections should take on this task, which is a long-term one, but the working group and the work will already be launched in this parliamentary term. That means, I want these things to go on in this term. I will also discuss this with representatives of the municipalities and the Minister of Industry and Trade. I also want to mention the fact that when I was talking about the narrowing, which is planned for 2020 so far, that it should be narrowing to four locations, so according to the current concept it is expected that the final selection of two sites, one main and one backup, will be made in 2025. This means that if the law were to be passed at the beginning or in the first half of the next parliamentary term, then there would actually be six or seven years left until the final narrowing of the selection of these sites, according to this plan. So I suppose that then it would be possible to proceed in the regime of this new law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u63	Thank you, Prime Minister. This interpelation is over. We will go to the ninth interpelation, and this is the interpellation of Mr Stanislav Grospič on the commitments of the Czech Republic to the North Atlantic Alliance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr President of the Government, it has not been so long since I have interceeded you on the interpretation of Article 43 from the perspective of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, which gives alternative options and does not make this subject subject to the clear necessary consent of either of the Chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic, albeit giving them equal status, that is to say that parliaments can comment on the issue of the participation of allied troops so-called in the framework of the North Atlantic Alliance in the territory of the Czech Republic. It wasn't so long ago that the government decided in October last year without informing, or if otherwise, I'd like to know your answer about the flights of U.S. drones Global Hawk over the Czech Republic. There is no legislation in the Czech Republic that would treat these flights of unmanned machinery on its territory. However, it is quite clear that these aircraft can carry both weapons and serve for espionage purposes, and this is their main purpose. I ask whether the Czech Government intends to contribute to the escalation of the war tension in Europe in relation to, for example, the Russian Federation, whether it will seek consent and provide this information and will also be discussed in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic or the Senate, and how far is the preparation of a technical agreement with the United States of America as owners of these aircraft, or the North Atlantic Alliance, on this matter between the Czech Government and the Government of the United States of America.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u65	Thank you. The Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u66	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, this interview has been called in the matter of the Czech Republic's obligations to NATO, which is a very broad issue. I have some groundwork here that seeks to update the situation in terms of fulfilling our obligations to NATO, but there is no passage for American drones in relation to our legal order and our legislation. So if you don't mind, I would take this intervention as an incentive provided by the Member to look at this issue as Prime Minister, and I am prepared to respond, as I usually do in similar cases, to a written response to this oral question. The question that has been asked means whether the relevant negotiations are under way, whether any legal standards are being prepared at the moment to respond to this, I will turn to the Ministry of Defence, I will be informed of the current situation and I would reply to the Member in a specific written form, because this is a very detailed matter where I think that we must be as precise as possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u67	Thank you. The Member shall submit a supplementary question or a reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u68	I, of course, thank you, Prime Minister. I fully understand your response, however, I asked that the government had allegedly decided on this in October last year, so I would simply like to know at what stage in October last year the government decided on this matter whether the information arrived immediately in the Chamber of Deputies. And otherwise, I will, of course, be satisfied that you will provide me with a written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u69	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, you have another word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u70	Thank you. I would not want the impression that the government wants to hide anything from the Chamber of Deputies. That was definitely never our intention. As a Member who has been in opposition for many years and has not always agreed with the proposals put forward by the government, I think that the House should be respected and should be a sovereign on key issues which also concern the security and defence of the country. I respect that. I will also include in this reply information on whether the government was discussing something like this in the autumn of last year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u71	Thank you. This interpelation is over. We're gonna have a tenth interview in front of us. It is Mrs Dana Váhalová's intervention on economic growth and employment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u72	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the action plan to promote economic growth and employment prepared in cooperation with the social partners and discussed at the Council of Economic and Social Agreements, including a joint meeting with regional tripartites, is the right step by the government to strengthen the impact of the social partners on the implementation of economic policy. This is an important document to strengthen social dialogue and to include precise measures against other strategies to address the area, indicators to be met, as well as deadlines to be met. I would like to ask about his priorities for 2017. The Czech Republic has been growing economically for the last two years and has shown a surplus. So what measures is the government preparing for this year to maintain economic growth? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u73	Thank you, Mrs Dana Váhalová. The Prime Minister is ready to answer. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u74	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have actually used a new instrument that has not been here in the past. The new instrument was actually created in the context of tripartite dialogue, which means debates between government, trade unions and employers. We agreed that we would regularly prepare an action plan for each year of our government's mandate, summing up key government measures to promote economic growth and employment. I'm just reminding you that when we started three years ago, growth and employment didn't look so good. After three years of being one of the key priorities for us, I firmly believe that the situation has shifted at least a little bit towards the better. We have action plans, we meet with trade unions, we meet with employers, we regularly consult economic ministers to assess whether we are also fulfilling the things we have agreed on. [[15.50 hours]] The Member's inquiry concerned the priorities for 2017. In fact, we in the government have now approved at the last meeting an action plan to promote economic growth and employment just this year, agreed with the social partners. And I must say that one of the key priorities that it includes is the start of drawing on European funds. This is something that dramatically supported our economic growth in 2015. The fact that we had a budget surplus of 62 billion in 2016 was due, among other things, to the fact that we were able to draw up old European funds in 2015 and a large part of the payments from the EU came in 2016 and helped us to about 50 percent of the budget surplus that the Czech Republic had last year. Last year, they managed to go through the whole procedure and get money from the EU only in the order of several billion crowns. So 2016 was the year at the very beginning of drawing, the real drawing of funds from the EU. This year must look different. This year it cannot be individual billions, this year it must be tens of billions of crowns that we will exhaust, we will really get them out of the EU budget here. I expect it to accelerate drawdown in all key operational programmes. So this is one of the main priorities that the government has, and we will regularly focus on it - the launch of European funds. Why is that important? It's about modernizing the industry. This is related to digitization and technological changes, which are another important priority for this year, but also related to the construction of the backbone transport network. Last year was a year of preparation. Last year, we were dealing with EIA, we were dealing with legislation, we were buying out land. This year must be the year of obtaining building permits, and ideally by the end of this year, these key buildings must be launched. So another, third priority besides European funds, besides the digitalisation of the economy, is the construction of a backbone transport network. We had a tripartite on Monday, and we're going to have a list of transport constructions for the government next week that the Ministry of Transport is preparing. We follow them - all buildings worth over 300 miles. Crowns. Every two months, the government receives a report and we monitor the buildings where we negotiated an exemption from the EIA, and the aim of the government is for the Ministry of Transport to issue a building permit this year and that this year by the end of this year, if possible, it will start building on these constructions. Another important thing in terms of promoting economic growth: we want to continue active labour market policy. I have already mentioned this in response to one of the previous interventions, although the situation looks very good on the outside, we have low unemployment, but we still have 360 000 people in the register of employment offices, but we also have regions, the Ústecký Region, the Karlovy Vary Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region, where unemployment in some districts is still high. This means that we must also address this area of active labour market policy. This is another priority that we have from this year's point of view. So these are the main, key things that should affect economic growth this year. The government is ready to further support exports, so we expect active economic diplomacy, we will continue to help companies in terms of diversification of Czech exports. Of course, we want to address the stabilisation of Export Bank and EGAP. We're dealing, we're still dealing with old cases that arose eight seven years ago -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u75	Prime Minister, five minutes have passed. Mrs Váhalová is going to a supplementary question. You'll have a chance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u76	I may allow the Prime Minister to continue with the list of priorities, and I will open it with a question of whether he wants to add some of the priorities he is preparing for this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u77	Okay, thank you. The Prime Minister is ready. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u78	[[With a smile.]] Just one more. Just one more, but important. It's investment incentives. That, too, is a very intense social debate. It has to do with low unemployment. I agree with those who say: we do not need flat investment incentives for low value added production. So the Ministry of Industry has the task of preparing the substantive intention of the new Act on investment incentives by the end of the election period, opening up a debate to redesign the system of investment incentives so that we focus on production with high added value, so that we focus on research and development projects that we would attract to the Czech Republic. So another key priority, which we may not be able to bring to an end from the point of view of amending the law, but it will be things that will be prepared for the next parliamentary term, and we would like to modernise the Act on investment incentives. Not flat installations, but either large strategic investments that will revive the region or production with high added value. And one final point. GE Aviation as a specific model of something that the government has tried, and it turns out that projects of this type, which include the research and development phase, are something that will bring us highly qualified jobs and pressure on wage growth. This is something that new investment incentives could help.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u79	Thank you, Prime Minister. This interpelation is over. I'm in a desperate situation if I'm gonna start my last interpelation, but at least I'll let Mrs. Věra Kovářová read it. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, the media today flashed a report on the amount of compensation at the Ministry of Transport. Specifically, it is the reward given by Minister Ťok to the Deputy Minister for Legislation, Mr Kopřiv. You know, I understand when good work is evaluated, but in the case of Deputy Minister of Transport for Good Work legislation, I really am not convinced. If this deputy is the person who provided expert opinions for the state on the possibility of concluding a contract with Kapsch, in fact, only last spring, a few months before the original contract expired, and thus relied on coincidence and happiness that these assessments would sound in favour of the procedure chosen by the Ministry of Transport, which favored Kapsch, I wonder what they would do if they came out the other way. So this guy just isn't a good manager who deserves that kind of reward. Yes, there has been serious speculation that the remuneration has been set at such a level because Deputy Minister Kopřiva was the person who took the position of Minister to sign a contract with Kapsch, and, frankly, it makes more sense than the possibility that he would be rewarded for the responsible management procedure in this matter. Mr. Prime Minister, please address this in my view the scandalous matter that sheds a very bad light on the functioning of this government. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u81	Thank you, Mrs Věra Kovářová, and the Prime Minister has a few minutes, not all of them to answer. Mrs Kovářová cannot really use the supplementary question anymore. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u82	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all sensitive to the amount of remuneration. I don't mean to say allergic, but we've had quite a bit of fun in the past, and I feel that in the past, the freedom given in terms of setting rewards has sometimes been abused. I remember that even at the Office of the Government in the past under past governments there used to be, for example, annual rewards for an official of a million crowns and more. There have been cases like this. And one of the reasons why I strongly support the adoption of the Civil Service Act is to bring order into this, that is to say that there is greater certainty with citizens and taxpayers that the money is not being used and that it is a really worked-out reward and that it is not used to, for example, favour your favorite officials within the structure of the Ministry and others did not prefer it. I, on this matter, in the matter of rewards at the Ministry of Defence, want to turn to the Secretary of State Service, respectively. Deputy Minister for the Civil Service of Mr Postránecký, who works at the Ministry of the Interior, I will ask him whether he would give me an opinion on this, whether this is in line, this practice in remuneration at the Ministry of Transport, with the letter and the rules contained in the Civil Service Act. [[transport correctly]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u83	I thank the Prime Minister for not forcing me to break the Rules of Procedure. And to avoid shortening the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Jana Lorencová's apology from 16 to 18 o'clock and Mrs Marie Pěnčíková for the whole day on 19 and 20 January for health reasons. [[16.00 hours]] That's all from an interview with the Prime Minister. Thank you, Members, thank you to the Prime Minister for his answers. We will continue to interpel on the members of the government. In this respect, we have 45 interpelations. We're probably not gonna make it. As for the members of the government, we will continue with the first interview, it is the interpellation of Mr. Bohuslav Chalupa to Minister Jan Chvojka. Minister Chvojka is not here. Neither is my colleague Chalupa. This interpelation is failing. We will therefore address the interpelation of the second, and this is the interpellation of Mr Jiří Valenta to the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, who is excused for today's meeting. So I ask my colleague Valenta to give his interpellation. He'll get an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u84	Dear absent Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the bad situation in the state company Česká pošta. You are aware of the strike of employees, which has been watered down by unacceptable pressure on the employer, which threatens to receive bonuses or to terminate the employment relationship. The strike was motivated by low wages. The average here is CZK 21,900, with the Director-General having a contract salary of over CZK 8 million per year and collecting the same amount for his dismissal. Five top executives receive 175 grand a month and can climb up to 4 million a year with rewards. And deservedly? According to some experts management in the administration of state property was penalized because it did not sufficiently reflect the decline in profitability due to the onset of electronic communication and carried out some faulty and inefficient decisions which aggravated the quality of services and working conditions of employees. What do you think of sponsoring football in the amount of CZK 27 million and so on? External management salaries are in contrast with January's jumping increase in services. For example, the recommended writing or packages of ten crowns, which occurred in May. The state enterprise is also being referred to as the target or transfer station of various prominents. In the past, Mrs Snopková or the transport ex-minister Žák, the most recently former Deputy Police President and author of the controversial police reorganisation of General Laube, can be mentioned. Here, again, stands in contrast to the 15 percent fluctuations of ordinary employees, the disastrous amount of which was also required by the Federation of Executive Employees of the Czech Republic to investigate. Minister, how do you view such a state-of-the-art situation as one of the last state-owned enterprises, according to the finance minister, in a transparent manner? And what you intend to do about it. And please save yourself the argument that you can't interfere with the Czech Post management strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u85	I thank Mr Jiří Valent. The Minister is absent, you will receive an answer in writing under the Rules of Procedure Act. Another intervention is the interpelation of Mr Ivo Pojezný, also to the absent minister Milan Chovanec in the case of the contract between Postal Savings Bank and ČSOB. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Since the minister was missing last Thursday and this Thursday, and I don't know if we'll see him here during this quarter, I'll allow myself to load an interview on him. Dear absent Minister, in recent months we have heard about problems that are being rejected by the Czech Post. We can certainly agree that the workers and workers of this state enterprise are doing a very demanding job, for which they are undervalued. I understand that resources are always very hard to find. However, I think the český Post has somewhere to draw it from. The golden hen is called the Postal Savings Bank, which the state rents ČSOB for about 1.5 billion. per year to generate a profit of about 5 billion. crowns a year. I repeat the numbers again. For 1.5 billion. We'll rent it to make another $5 billion. Crowns. In this context, I wanted to ask what stage is the agreement to extend the contract with ČSOB and whether it would not be more economically advantageous to operate the postal savings bank itself by post, as it could help it economically. It seems to me that in this case both you and the government defend the interests of a wealthy foreign company against Czech employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u87	I thank Mr Ivo Pojezný. Also, the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec will reply in writing within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. Mr Miloslav Janulík's interpellation to the Minister of Health, who is present, is the fourth interview. But my colleague Janulík isn't here, so his order is failing. We must continue, and this is the interview of Mrs Jitka Chalánková to the present Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová, on the OSPOD's activities. My colleague disappeared too. She's also failing her application, the winning order. And we continue with Mr Stanislav Mackovík's sixth interview on the iron of the absent, excused Minister Robert Pelikán on the matter of the executors. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u88	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, Minister, fellow Members, I wanted to ask the absent Minister Pelikán, he spoke here about the fact that in the disciplinary proceedings the bailiffs are often subject to a very low rate for what they have done. This means that he is aware that this does not correspond to what they have committed and why disciplinary proceedings are being conducted against them in the quotes of the executors. I wanted to ask him if the Ministry of Justice is considering tightening the conditions so that the disciplinary senate has to gradually tighten the penalty of the executors for any particular activity they carry out and which is not in accordance with the law and the implementing rules. I think it is not enough to say that he is unhappy with this and that this is a long-term problem. I think that whether the Ministry or the House can initiate the change of legislation so that those bailiffs who do not fit into the system that has been set up can be prosecuted and have some effect that will discourage them from doing something unfair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u89	I thank Mr Stanislav Mackovík and it is also true that the absent Minister of Justice Pelikán is obliged to respond in writing within 30 days to your intervention. Mr Martin Novotný's interpellation to Minister Andrej Babiš, who is duly excused, is the seventh interview. I'd like to present the question of the interpellation. The results of the tender must not only be of interest to the Member. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u90	Dear absent Minister, in my last interview, I have intersected your colleague, the Minister of Health, on the results of the tenders to the airline rescue operators. I will now allow myself to interpel you on the same matter, because you were the initiate of the process, which led to the start of the round of these tenders. The main argument that stood at the beginning of your initiation was the effort to achieve savings in the operation of the air rescue service. In Hané we often say - I say it nehanácky, Czech, without dialect - cheap twice paid. The result of this tender is that, in particular, in the region I come from, at this time, the airline rescue service is provided by a helicopter company that operates a helicopter not far from us, in nearby Switzerland, is similarly demonstrated, but in the air museum. It's a 25-year-old machine. At the same time, there are serious doubts about all the legal requirements of the tender. Fulfilment of conditions by the applicant, etc. It is precisely because you are in this argument in order to achieve the greatest possible savings that has been initiated by the processes of these tender procedures, I want to ask you how you are looking at this process now. Whether you believe that it has been successful, even though I am aware that you are not responsible for the practical implementation of the selection procedures, this is borne by the previous management of the Ministry of Health. At the same time, I want to assure you that there is no good atmosphere between the residents of the Olomouc Region and the paramedics involved in the ambulance. There is rather an atmosphere of concern, which only strengthened the extraordinary event of an emergency helicopter landing. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u91	Thank you. Please, let's respect the time for oral questioning. So Minister Babiš is not, so he will answer you in writing within 30 days. Next up, interpelation number eight. It is an interview by Mr Roman Procházka on the absent, excused Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, I've recently interrogated you on the salary of police officers. Thank you for your written answer, for which I have further questions, but I will contact you another time. Now I'm talking about the state of police officers in the county, especially in my Karlovy Vary region. This is the problem of least equally important, because of course it has to do with salaries, but also with direct security. These are two problems - a planned table of police officers versus the actual state of police officers and a reduction in the planned state of police officers since 2010. For illustration, as of 1 January 2010, the planned state of the tables was 1,442 police officers and the state as of 1 January this year is 1, 330, i.e. in seven years the police state was reduced by 112 police officers in the Karlovy Vary Region. Worse still, this condition is not fulfilled and there are still 63 tables in our region vacant, i.e. in the region missing from the state of 2010 175 police officers, at a time when the security situation is definitely not improving. If we look at last year, 52 police officers were missing from the planned situation on 1 January and 63 police officers at the end of the year, and this is a recruitment campaign which results in a reduction of police officers by 11. The worst situation is in Cheb County, where 21 cops are missing. That's not a very good result, Minister. What are you going to do about it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u93	Thank you, Mr Roman Procházka. They will receive the answer within 30 days. We're continuing with the ninth interpellation. It is the interpelation of Mrs Pavla Golasowská to the present Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u94	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I submit an interview to the Minister of Health - I am very glad that he is here - on the matter of passing information on the patient's health status by doctors and medical personnel. I often encounter suggestions from the public regarding the unethical and unprofessional access of doctors and medical staff to patients who are at the end stage of the disease. I mean, the fact that information about the patient's serious condition or imminent death is sometimes passed on, for example, between the door, the hallway and other undignified spaces. Doctors often do not know how to talk about this difficult situation. As far as terminal home care is concerned, relatives do not have information on other follow-up services, such as field hospice care, nursing services or personal assistance services. Also, many do not know that a sick person can apply for a care allowance or apply for a job in a hospice. Therefore, Minister, I ask you whether it would be possible to teach communication with the patient and relatives about the patient's condition in the medical faculties and schools of health, particularly as regards the terminal condition. Furthermore, I ask you and I ask you to support cooperation between hospitals and hospice care, as well as to raise awareness of patients and relatives of other related services mentioned above. This information could be provided, inter alia, by means of promotional materials of these follow-up services, which patients and relatives could already obtain in the hospital. Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u95	Thank you, Mrs Golasowská, for keeping time to the question. The minister has his first five minutes today. There'll be a few more. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Madam, the problem you mentioned has two levels. One is legislative, one is ethical. The legislation is regulated by Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services, where in § 31 the name of the patient's health status and the proposed health services is stated - I quote - that the provider is obliged to ensure that the patient is informed, in a clear and sufficient manner, of his/her health status and of his/her proposed individual treatment and any changes thereto, while allowing the patient or the person designated by the patient to ask additional questions relating to his/her health status and the proposed health services, which must be answered intelligibly. It's legislatively regulated well, but your interpellation was very correct in heading into the field of ethical. And there, I have to admit, I'm on the same page with you, because somehow I'm going to come from what in the 27 years of practice in health care, of which 16 years in the hospital, I see, so I'm going to literally say ethics, and it really needs to be done because medicine is incredibly technological, and it's kind of disappearing from the human approach. I'm in agreement with you in this regard. I'm meeting with deans of medical schools on Monday, so I'm sure I'll appeal to them in this regard myself. However, on the other hand, I am a little concerned that this is related to a broader state of morality, because, after all, medicine and medicine are a reflection of the morals and state of society today, and it is now a terribly separate from the last things of man, from dying and similar matters, it does not count on that. We've really turned medicine and relationships between people into a technological level, and we've got a little bit of an ethical and human dimension out of it. I understand, I certainly want and will work in this regard. I'm here at past interviews - when you're talking about flyers or promoting these services, I've seen the problem here the last time that I've been intersected, that there's a funeral service being promoted, and frankly, I've already had a fight between hospices on the subject of a patient. So it always has a double dimension. We need to find a normal approach. I'd say it's going well somewhere, but with some people, you just don't move. Unfortunately, it's wrong. I also think - and we strongly support this in the Ministry of Health, the existence of ombudsmen in hospitals, because it is often rather a question of a certain translation between the patient side and the medical side, and sometimes these people - in some hospitals it is very well covered. Maybe that's all I can tell you about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u97	I thank the Minister of Health. I'm asking if there's an interest in an additional question. It's not. We can move on. Another intervention is the interpellation of Mr Simeon Karamazov to the Minister of Finance. The Member is not present, the Minister is not present, so this application is forfeit. In that case, we are at the interview number 11 of Mr Ludvík Hovorka to the Minister of Health. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u98	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, European Union law prohibits the advertising of all prescription drugs to the lay public. This prohibition applies, of course, to the advertising of all vaccines. European law has made the only exception to this ban, it is the so-called advertising of vaccination events. After the apparent intervention of the pharmaceutical lobby in legislation, the Czech Republic implemented a key exception to the directive in a clearly different way. The advertising regulation law does not provide for an exception to advertising promotion of vaccination events, but an exception to advertising promotion of medicines used in vaccination events. It has clearly been replaced by its own subject matter of this exemption of Union law in a regulation which is compulsory to implement a fully harmonised law of the European Union. The advertising of specific vaccines, the so-called brandic advertising to the lay public, is inadmissible and prohibited by the same European Union law in many Member States. Only vaccination events as such can be promoted, i.e. in a manner of professionally defined and well-defined national population vaccination projects. In the Czech Republic, the approval of vaccination events is ongoing as a complete mockery of the law in the European Union throughout medicine. The Ministry of Health approves vaccination events for quite specific vaccines and does not give these events any professional content, only a time interval. I would like to ask you what you intend to do with this as a new Minister of Health and whether you are going to correct this way of authorising advertising which is not in line with European Union law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u99	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka and the present Minister of Health has another chance to answer, not answer in writing, you can directly, Minister. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u100	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that the Ministry of Health draws up nationwide programmes for the protection and promotion of public health, which are also vaccination programmes, prevention programmes, sets out principles and procedures, manages education for support, etc. etc. And one of the important means to meet these objectives is vaccination actions, which are indeed approved by the Ministry of Health. On request, the Ministry gives an opinion as to whether the implementation of the vaccination action is appropriate from a professional point of view, but only the suitability of the implementation from a professional point of view is subject to approval. The content of the vaccination action as such is not the subject of approval. In doing so, advertising of medicinal products for human use, which is covered by Act 40/1995, on the regulation of advertising, the current applicable wording of the Act, makes it possible that the advertising of medicinal products for human use aimed at the general public is subject to vaccines used in a vaccination event, albeit in a certain way an exception, because otherwise, of course, they cannot be the subject of advertising for the general public of medicinal products subject to medical prescription. I'm not too strong on the subject, Mr. Ambassador. I know that the legal regulation of advertising is in the gesture of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I know you've put forward some sort of change in the question of advertising vaccines. I am aware that your opinion is that the approved bill is contrary to the relevant European Directive 2001/83/EC, which prohibits advertising of vaccines against the lay public, and I will probably have to have a somewhat more detailed opinion prepared for you on this issue, because I am a complete layman here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u101	I thank the Minister of Health. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is applying for an additional question to the Minister. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u102	Thank you, Minister. I'll just add that the vaccination action should have some kind of filling, e.g. professionally defined, well-defined national population vaccination projects, which not only recommend to a group of persons, or in a region, or to a nationwide vaccination against a particular disease, against a particular originator and professionally justify this suitability, but also implement it by means of health policy, in particular by paying vaccines, by identifying target groups, public information from the public authorities, etc. In advertising promotion of these projects, which in principle increase the sales and marketing of vaccines, manufacturers can participate and help promote these projects in the public domain. But with us, the problem is that vaccination is not allowed as such, she is just called, but it promotes a specific vaccine and that is the fundamental contradiction with European Union law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u103	Thank you for keeping up with the additional question. The Minister will not answer the supplementary question, respectively. Mr. Hovorka's statement. We're going to continue with another interpellation, and this is an interpellation of Michal Kučera to the absent Andrej Babiš, Minister of Finance. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u104	Hello, thank you for your word. Dear Minister, native numbers are printed in bulk, published to all, and soon they will also start to collect and even draw. You can find the birth number on all electronic sales records issued by a businessman, a natural person. That's how the over-birth number gets into public space. The tax identification number is equal to the birth number of a natural person. A solution that could prevent abuse of the birth number exists. It is the replacement of the birth number called. a meaningless identifier from which data cannot be read. If you are asking yourself now whether the abuse of the birth number applies to you too, the answer is unfortunately positive. For example, in such a common matter as confidential health information, the current government has created various registers. One of them is a registry of patients to collect non-anonymized data about all patients and their diseases. The entrance is based on the birth number. It also follows that the replacement of the birth number so called. A meaningless identifier in the VAT number is required. A solution is offered that will be with a natural person as well as with a legal person, i.e. The I.D. will be made up of an identification number. I would like to ask you, Minister, whether you are planning to remove the national number from the tax identification number, first of all, and secondly, what steps you will take in this regard and at what time. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u105	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. You will receive the answer under the Rules of Procedure Act within 30 days. I'm ending this interpelation at the moment. Another interpelation is Mr František Vácha to the absent, excused Minister Kateřina Valachová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u106	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, my question is about 150 miles. CZK, which managed to get into the Ministry of Education's budget during the approval of the state budget and are directly aimed at increasing the salaries of higher education teachers. I would like to ask you exactly how you intend to use these funds. Since we know that you do not have a direct impact on college budgets, however, these funds must be provided to universities in some way. I would also like to ask whether they will be provided to all public universities without differences, or whether you are planning a selection, or what, because at one point there was talk of an increase in the salaries of higher education teachers targeted only at teaching faculties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u107	Hello, thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Your interpellation will be answered in writing. Please have Mr Zahradník give another interview. Interpolation is against Minister Marian Jurečka, who is also absent. The MP isn't here, so his interpellation is failing. In that case, I give the floor to Mr Josef Nekl, who will also intersect Mr. Mr. Took's absent minister of transport. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent minister, according to the latest information I received, the fulfilment of the Czech Government resolution on the completion of the construction of the D1 motorway on the section 0136 between Říkovice and Přerov, which according to the Government's resolution is to be completed on 31 December 2019. Just a few facts. The valid and final zoning decision for construction number 32/2006 became legal power 12. 8. 2006. On its basis, a partial building permit number of 2609 of 25 was issued. 8. 2009. The final decision of the partial building permit was issued 31. 10. 2012 under number 34/2012. It is therefore striking to me that, regardless of the above, ŘSD is calling for an amendment to the applicable territorial decision. This may pose a high risk of the entry of interest groups and associations into the construction process and very seriously jeopardise the delay of the construction of this section D1. With that, the confirmed EIA may also fail. The new Building Act and the EIA Act are not yet adopted. I appeal to you with a request for possible entry of the Ministry of Transport into the construction permit process and two questions. Question one: What prevents ŘSD from applying for a building permit on the basis of the final decision cited? In case they defend, question two. It is possible to solve the situation on the basis of special law No. 416/2009 Coll. § 2, when does the ŘSD request a building permit and apply the relevant changes to the final zoning decision in this proceeding? The construction is very important for the entire transport network of the Czech Republic and I therefore believe that you will answer me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u109	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Your interpellation will be answered in writing within 30 days. Next up, Mr Vít Kaňkovský has the floor with his interpelling to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u110	Good afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues, colleagues. Dear absent minister, I appeal to you on behalf of the citizens of Velkýmezříčska in the district Žďár nad Sázavou, who, with great disappointment during last year, learned about the cancellation of the stop of the express train at the station Křižanov on the line Žďár nad Sázavou - Brno. This cancellation took place with the validity of the new timetable from December 2016, despite repeated meetings of Křižanov's self-government, Velké Meziříčí and other municipalities with representatives of the Region Vysočina and the Ministry of Transport. This area is about 10,000 inhabitants, who use the express trains with the start of the line to Brno or to Žďár nad Sázavou in Křižanov. These are mostly citizens who commute to Brno for work or study. The cancellation of the stop of the express train will extend the way of citizens from Velkéměříčsko to Brno according to various connections by more than 60 percent. A small part of citizens use speed transport in the opposite direction, i.e. to Žďár nad Sázavou and Havlíčkův Brod. The argument that this is an acceleration of traffic on this line is limping, and the fact that according to the new timetable, the time of travel from Žďár nad Sázavou to Brno has been reduced by a few minutes, but in the opposite direction after the cancellation of the stop in Křižan's time of travel from Brno to Žďár nad Sázavou even extended by four minutes, which reeks, forgive the expression, Absurdistán. The biggest disappointment for the citizens of this region is that neither the Vysočina Region nor the Ministry of Transport wants to admit who is behind the abolition of the stop of the speedsters in Křižanov and why this has happened. Therefore, Minister, I want to ask you two questions. What reasons led to the cancellation of the stop of the speedsters in Křižanov, and who decided on this step? Secondly, whether the Ministry of Transport is considering restoring the stop of the express trains in Křižanov, in what time horizon and what steps it takes in this direction. Thank you in advance for your written reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u111	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interpellation will be answered in writing. And now I give the floor to Mr Václav Klučka, who will intersect the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u112	Thank you. Dear absent finance minister, at the beginning of the year, I learned from the media that, as the administrator of the Treasury and the highest person responsible for tax collection in the Czech Republic, you are facing criminal charges on suspicion of tax cuts and breach of the obligation to manage foreign property. This, in itself, is at least disturbing in relation to your role as Minister of Finance. On the other hand, of course, I honor the presumption of innocence. It was detailed in the media that you purchased half of your own company Agrofert's bonds worth CZK 1 1/2 billion, and thanks to a gap in the law, you do not have to tax interest income of CZK 90 million each year. You seem to have not broken the law, but in my opinion it is at least a gross immoral act and a spit in the face of everyone you said last year that collected taxes are all of us's money, and their reduction is essentially stealing. Many questions arise, serious questions, of which the main one I am asking you now is: Have you been able to purchase bonds worth CZK 1 and a half billion from your own resources in 2013 and can you please prove the origin of this money? Minister, I expect your answer to come in a short enough time. As you said at the press conference today, you manage taxpayers' money. You don't personally give your interest income. How are you going to explain this to the taxpayers?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u113	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interview will be answered in writing within 30 days by the Minister. Next, I give the floor to Mr Petr Kudel with his intervention on the absent Home Secretary Milan Chovanec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u114	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, absent Minister Chovanč. In the autumn of last year, a very unpleasant event occurred when a man died in a restaurant in Žatec and on this occasion a very negative to hateful media firefight was unleashed on the Internet, when in particular under articles describing this event were comments that provoked hatred in society. In this context, I have somehow paused on how such hateful comments can be published on the Internet and that no one has a duty to download these comments, the person who manages the website, or anybody pressures it to download them. The Webmaster just blacked out the rude words, but it didn't stop the comments from staying on those websites. "Wait a minute, you Czech... here's blackened,...the Muslims will be coming soon, then you'll be hiding like rats. I look forward to it when you get murdered, it'll be fun." I believe that such hateful comments should not be left on the web to arouse further hatred in society. I understand that the Internet is an open space. Still, space cannot be impenetrable. So I want to ask you how our society protects itself or how it places such hateful commentaries or such hateful information on the web (?). [[Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u115	Well, thank you for your interpellation, which will be answered in writing. Next up, Mr Karel Rais. She will give an interview to the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u116	Thank you. Madam Minister, I would like to start by interpelling my colleague Soukup on the subject of multicultural projects from the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which took place on 12 January of this year, when you said - I quote: "I want to reassure Members and MEPs that the education system, or even the Ministry of Education, does not in any way promote multiculturalism as perhaps an ideal opinion or God forbid state policy in the sense of influencing a non-political and educational environment, and I stress that the framework education programme in the case of multicultural education, which has been present here since 2005, does not do so even according to my court." What's the reality? There is at least one project, a Multiculty programme that runs under the Ministry of Education regulation and has been included in the framework education programme since at least 2009. Currently, the NGO has a project to promote multi-culty access to primary schools or secondary schools. The organisation has been involved in the project for a long time, i.e. at least since 2011. At the address People of one country and so on, it is literally said that multicultural education is being imposed on primary schools by the Ministry of Education. In addition, in the form of an advertisement, the Refugee Aid Organization seeks a worker in the education department as a lecturer of the Refugee Assistance Organization. The advertisement states directly: This worker will be responsible for teaching at primary schools within the project We are people of one country. I now underline: the project is focused on multicultural education for primary school pupils. This tutor will be further responsible for the implementation of the project etc. My question is directed - on the web we are talking about the Multiculty programme, which runs under the regulation of the Ministry of Education and is included in the framework education programme. [[Time warning]] When you say in Soukupa's reply that nothing like this is happening, can you explain to me the contradiction between these two claims?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u117	I don't want to limit you, but your time is up. Thank you. Next she will speak with her interview by Mrs Ivana Dobešová, with an interview with the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u118	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, let me ask you a question. Before this question, I would like to describe the situation. Yesterday we approved the amendment to Act 561/2004 on the financing of regional education, which changes the money flow system to individual schools. I think in general terms this law is really good. But I'm starting to wonder if we're going to run into a certain anomaly that is now manifesting itself in funding the salaries of non-teaching workers. I would also like to say: This amendment says that on the basis of the wage inventory at the beginning of the year, the Ministry of Education will then evaluate and forward the funds exactly according to the tariff and grade - the grade and salary rate, or the level of the tariff. At present, the money flow is for one pupil and is the average wage for a teaching worker. Currently, the basic guaranteed state minimum wage has increased several times, which is, of course, positive, because this shows the growth of our Republic's economy. However, what does not change in line with changes in this guaranteed minimum wage are salary rates and tables. Thus, every month we pay some workers, especially non-teaching workers, a certain amount in order to pay the guaranteed minimum wage. Since January 2017, the salary has been CZK 11,000, and I would like to show what kind of workers it is at my school on a specific example. These are auxiliary cooks, cleaners, horse caregivers, greenkeepers and specialists in the field of natural sciences. [[President: Madam Member, two minutes have passed.]] I therefore ask whether the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is counting on a change in pay rates where they will correspond to classes and grades with guaranteed minimum wage. [[President: Madam...]] [[President: Madame, you are already well over the two minutes.]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u119	Thank you. I'm sure Madam Secretary will be happy to answer you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u120	Mr Vice-President, Members, yes, this situation, we are aware of it. Taking this briefly, among other things, because of the solution to this problem, but not only to it, our ministry prepared, in agreement with the social partners, a proposal for an amendment to Government Regulation No. 564/2006 Sb., for the sake of completeness, the intention is to cancel the first two lowest scales of the pay rates. Consequently, with effect from 1 July 2017, there should be an increase of about 9.5% in the salary rates of non-teaching workers. At the moment, this proposal is ready to be circulated into an inter-ministerial commentary procedure. And the fact that it has shifted, or that we want the efficiency from 1 July 2017, so that is the result of some kind of compromise, because of course there were demands that this should apply immediately from 1 January. But since it's going to be financially difficult in some way, it should be from July 1st.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u121	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. He does. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u122	Madam Secretary, I understand. But in grade one and grade two, there are only cleaning women. Then there's the junior chefs in third grade, there's the horse nurses at sixth, and there's the greenkeepers in seventh grade, and they can't reach the guaranteed minimum wage. I wouldn't have a problem with that in a second if I had an average and I had a young work force. Now it's gonna be by the rates. That means I'm not going to have any room to pay these minimum guaranteed wages and I'm going to have to take it from a personal evaluation that's going to be at some percentage level. So I'm asking if you're considering increasing and aligning these classes with a minimum wage. That's very important.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u123	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u124	At this point, we would actually - we as the Department of Labour wanted to sort this out a long time ago. However, as I said, because it's somehow financially challenging, so we're going through these gradual steps, and here I'm going to give you a very detailed answer later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u125	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Next, she will give us her interview with Mrs Helena Langšádlová. It'll be an interview with Minister Milan Chovanec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u126	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen and, above all, honourable Minister of the Interior. I appeal to you on the issue of dealing with traffic situations following traffic accidents, especially on motorways, by the Police of the Czech Republic. It is clear that the health and property of the persons involved must first be ensured after the accident. However, the disposal of accidents often takes long hours. Police often do not deal with the traffic situation of drivers behind the accident, and drivers often, after hours of waiting, start turning their vehicles around, sometimes even to the opposite direction, to get to the nearest convention. This creates other dangerous traffic situations. My question is whether there are rules under which the Police of the Czech Republic are obliged to deal with the traffic situation following the accident and whether there is a timetable for this. I understand that every traffic accident has to be dealt with individually, but it is not possible to expose passengers often to many hours of waiting in the motorcade, especially under existing climatic conditions. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u127	Thank you, Madame. Mr Radim Holeček, who will present his interview to the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš, also has the floor. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u128	Dear Minister, Friday 13th. 1. you said from this place: I was in Most last Friday and I went there in pubs. There's been a lot of new pubs. What's the problem? There's no problem with what we've got EET. As a proud bridge native, I asked the Mosťák on social media and received the following answers. Downtown plus one game room, minus one cafe with a kid's corner, instead of an innocent wine bar, there's a stop steak bar, we don't know the exact date of opening, but it's not long. Otherwise, I didn't notice anything. There's another game room right across from primary school in Nezvalovka, so there's two next to each other now. Even because of the EET, the Vinohrady and also the rock club ended. This has touched me very personally, because I have beautiful experiences from gymnasial years to rock club, and that will end because of EET, it is incomprehensible to me. I requested statistics from the Most Business Office, thank you very much to my colleague Aulická Jírovcová, because only those social networks cannot be trusted, so I wanted to have some statistics, and the statistics say this: Number of interrupted trade licenses for the inn activities between 1. 12 and 13. 1. from 2016 to 2017 is 19. Newly announced business inn activities during this period one natural person. Completed establishments with inn activities during the same period seven. If we add it up, for me, the ratio is clear, 26 closed, closed down, interrupted by trades and only one, and I think very much that's the game room, against that. The outrageous lies you're releasing here from this place, Mr. Secretary, are you knowingly spreading?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u129	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interpellation will be answered in writing. Another is drawn by Mr Igor Jakubčík, who I do not see in the Chamber, so his interpellation is failing. I give the floor to Mr Pavel Plzák, who will interpel the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u130	Dear Minister, my intervention relates to an event that happened last year, but it was only drawn now. And I think it's still up to date, and it's similar to that of fellow Kudela. 31. 10th last year I took the liberty of sending you through Internet mail a video from the assembly of Romani ethnicians in Žatec, probably in connection with the unclear death of young Rom people. I asked you to comment on my questions, and to this day, unfortunately, I have not received an answer. That's why I'm using the possibility of interpelling, and I dare to repeat my questions. The record shows that the facts of § 355 para. 1a i b criminal law, i.e. public defamation of the nation, race, nationality, and also para. 2a of this paragraph, because this has been done by at least two persons. Members of the Czech nation are publicly vilified on the record by expressions that I cannot quote here. In the transcription into a more decent dictionary they are repeatedly called white ejaculate, fucking Czech fucks, Czech fucked ejaculate etc. You can't quote exactly. Furthermore, I believe that the facts of Section 356 of the Criminal Code have been fulfilled. 1, because hatred for a nation was publicly incited, in this case to the Čech. The recording also shows incitement to arson, calls for technical gasoline and city ignition. It is clear from verbal attacks that the event was attended by members of the Police of the Czech Republic or municipal police who did not intervene. On the contrary, they have become the target of verbal aggression and threats, thereby fulfilling the factual nature of Section 323, 324, 325 and 326 of the Criminal Code. [[The President draws attention to the time]] My questions are: Was this meeting allowed? How did the security forces respond to this attack and violation of the law? How did the law enforcement authorities react to this public violation, and what will be the next step in this matter? [[Thank you.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u131	I'm sure you'll be answered in writing in 30 days for the interview. Next, Mrs Věra Kovářová has the floor with her interpelling to Mr Dan Ťok, the absent Minister of Transport. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u132	Dear Minister, I have noted the information according to which the project so-called'slaughter' failed. State train rental services to be financed through European money. At the same time, I was informed that these funds should be used to purchase trains at regional level. Minister, can you confirm this information? And if this is really the case, what is the estimated timetable for the actions involved in this transfer of funds? Thank you for your answer. I'm just adding that we need new railway vehicles in the regions as salt. For example, the line between Rudna and Prague, where new railway stops were built a few years ago, is already heavily overloaded. In the morning peak, the occupancy of the connections was measured even over 180 percent of the seating capacity. This clearly shows that vehicles need to be doubled or replaced for more capacity, but unfortunately there is no place to take them at the moment. The situation is critical. Therefore, I am very much in favour of implementing the government's plan to move the funds to regional level if they are to be purchased as soon as possible. Thank you for your written answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u133	Thank you, too, Madame. Next was Mr. Jiří Valenta, who will give us his interview with Minister Jan Mládek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u134	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, in my interview, this is a letter that you received from the Prime Minister, or from the Prime Minister. on its content, in which it instructs you to enter into an amendment to the Electronic Communications Act limiting the modification of contracts by telephone operators. You have already promised, repeatedly, that you will incorporate three provisions into the law that would protect customers much more, but in the end it only succeeded at a single point, and not so much substantial, where it was to be the maximum time limit for the transfer of numbers. However, at the balance sheet meeting in November, the Prime Minister gave you consumer protection as your task number 1 and added that he expected you to be significantly more active in this approach than before and that you would include in the upcoming amendment other elements of strengthening protection as proposed in last year's Senate proposal. For example, contracts require the obligation to define the extent of permitted unilateral changes by the operator or the obligation to notify changes and to inform the customer of the possibility of withdrawing from the contract without penalty if the changes made do not improve its status. And what improves the customer's position must not be decided by the operator as it has been. This fact is even contrary not only to the European directive but also to the Czech Civil Code. It is not possible for the contract to be a mere piece of paper, which the operator will change at any time. So, Minister, how are you going to stand up specifically to the Prime Minister's fundamental objections, and what changes will you propose and incorporate into the key law on electronic communications for the benefit of the consumer in his so far unequal fight with operators?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u135	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Minister, you have room for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Mr Valenta, thank you for this question and allow me to put the whole problem in a broader context. Yes, certainly the priority of the Ministry of Industry and Trade is consumer protection, undoubtedly the priority of the Ministry of Industry and Trade is to address the position of customers in the telecommunications market. However, the objectives and tasks, including those assigned to me by the Prime Minister, are a much larger set, because we, as far as the telecommunications sector is concerned, are simultaneously solving several problems. The first is the transposition of the directive on speeding up the construction of the Internet, which after more than annual negotiations, because it was very difficult to find consensus not only with the telecommunications sector, but also with the energy sector and other ministries, is after a year's effort in second reading in the House. That's one law. Similarly, the long process of approving the new generation networks, which were approved in October, was announced in November, and at the moment we are trying to reach a consensus with the sector on what the OP PIK challenges will look like to receive support for the construction of high-speed Internet only those who need it. Another priority of the Ministry is the transition to DVBT2 and, after all, within this change, when the Ministry's efforts are to achieve a transitional period of at least three years and citizens have a greater opportunity to adapt to new standards. This is also accompanied by the topics originally presented by Senator Wernerová. We're at the moment of the review. It is true that there was the portability of the number within ten days, we may have been trying to reach consensus for too long, and I take the Prime Minister's letter as part of the commentary procedure. At this point, we are doing his settlement, and we are going to work on these topics. We're going to add one more thing, and that's the question of price lists and their publication so network users know how much who buys services. So in this way, we will stand up to it and I want to hope firmly that this House will then support the proposals when they are here on the table, which should be soon. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u137	Thank you, Minister. Is the Member interested in an additional question? He does, so you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u138	Thank you for your answer, Minister. So I do not want to speculate how binding the Prime Minister's regulation is for you, but at the same time I would like to point out that this initiative has been welcomed not only by consumer organisations but also by other institutions, including the state, which have digital issues in their sense. Therefore, I would also like to ask you, not only as chair of the subcommittee on ICT industry and eGovernment, to make the most significant adjustments to the relevant law, so that we can approach the conditions of an advanced Europe where consumer protection is a prime concern in this respect. All you have to do is compare prices in the area of mobile communications or mobile internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u139	I'm asking the Minister if he wants to respond to the supplementary question. Yes. So you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u140	I can promise that this wish will be answered. At the same time, I am not sure which state institution you referred to, maybe it will be one of the worthy members of the ČTÚ Board. There's one more thing I'd like to add. Even if we work on all these changes, then we still need a willingness to go into conflict. And then the citizen has two choices. Either go to court, which is of course difficult, but there is another possibility in the meantime, which has been strengthened in the past, and this is the possibility of a kind of conciliation procedure, in this case with the Czech Telecommunications Office. And I firmly hope that this option will be used much more, because even after the proposals have been incorporated, there will still be a piece of the grey zone and it will also be committed and willing to go into conflict with the individual customers and support provided by the mediator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u141	Thank you, Minister. The next is Mr Martin Novotný, who I do not see in the hall. Also, his interpellation is failing. I will give the floor to Mr Kaňkovský, who will direct the interview to Minister Miloslav Ludvík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u142	Good afternoon again. I'm glad that after a long time I can interpel the present minister, not an empty chair, I appreciate it. Dear Minister, I am repeatedly returning to the issue of compulsory vaccination. I merely point out that I am not opposed to vaccination, but I mind that some issues remain unsolved in the long term. When we were here some time ago discussing the amendment to the Public Health Act, some public promises of the then Minister Svatopluk Němeček concerning the issue of vaccination were made here in the discussion. One of them is the resolution of the situation of medical fitness for child recovery actions, where the Minister here at second reading on my proposal that this could be resolved by establishing a preventive examination of children, said that he thought it was a good solution and that within three months he would try to solve this. Unfortunately, it hasn't happened so far. And on the other promises that were made here, there was a promise that compensation would be solved for the adverse consequences of compulsory vaccination. In this context, I would like to ask how you will proceed to this promise by former Minister Němeček that this situation will be addressed. There was talk of a fund to compensate for the permanent consequences of compulsory vaccination. After certain negotiations today, we know that you are preparing a law on this matter, and I would like to ask what stage of the preparation of this law is and whether you will be able to prepare the law during this parliamentary term so that it can still be approved. The second question is just about the opinions on children's recovery actions, such as schools in nature, summer camps and others, whether or not the Ministry is dealing with this issue at the moment and at what stage it is. Thank you in advance for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u144	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, I have at least become familiar with the issue of new legislation to address the responsibility of the State for the consequences of vaccination. It is a fact that a number of states have such a law, and even the final findings of the Constitutional Court call for something like that. So I myself because I'm basically from a hospital that is one of the two largest children's health establishments in the world, so I also identify with it because there are simply cases where the vaccine has some unfortunate consequences, and on the other hand, I strongly support compulsory vaccination. It follows from this that I agree that this legislation is necessary. At least from what I met at the Ministry, I know that at this point it's at some last stage when they're doing it so-called. Thing guys, i.e. It's at this stage of preparation. And I suppose that, at some point in the beginning of February, we should send a substantive draft law on compensation for the damage caused by compulsory vaccination to the commentary procedure. The fact is, from what I've seen so far here and what I can guess is that what's going on at the government by the end of February probably has hope here. So I guess we can tell by that, if we can push through the internal and external commentary process in time, then he'll probably still have hope in this parliamentary term. However, in the ministry, the purpose of the matter will remain. So, in case there's no chance of it going through, I assume that in the next term, my future successor or successor will probably be able to get back to that. As regards those certificates to the camps, which is an opinion issued by the registering provider of health services in the field of practical medicine for children and adolescents, so in the Government's draft law amending the Act on specific health services, this opinion is excluded from the generally established period of validity of the opinion, which is 90 days, so that its period of application is one year and has been used several times. So I suppose this might satisfy you. With the fact that the amendment of this law as press 874 before the second reading - it was to be discussed here actually yesterday, unfortunately it did not come, however, as far as I know it should be included as one of the fixed points at the February meeting, so we should discuss it there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u145	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member whether he is interested in an additional question. It's not like that. In that case, Mr Michal Kučera, who will present his interview with the Minister of Environment, Richard Brabec, will have the floor next in order. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u146	Thank you for the floor. Since Minister Brabec is somewhere in the Ústí Region on the campaign and is not here on interpelations, I am downloading my interpelation, but I will keep it for the next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u147	Thank you. Noted. In that case, I give the floor to Mr Radim Holečka, who will give us his interview with the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u148	Dear Minister, is the Ministry of Finance seriously considering taking up to tens of millions of crowns to municipalities enjoying high income from gambling? I've heard that the current system of redistributing money from so-called. you consider technical games unfair and you want to divide the proceeds among all Czech municipalities. But I have information that the communities concerned are not thrilled with this idea. They point out that they finance health, sport or tourism in the region through gambling in areas that the state cannot take such good care of. How exactly do you imagine the whole change?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u149	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your question will be answered in writing within 30 days. Next in line is Mrs Věra Kovářová. However, I don't see her here in the hall either, so her interpellation is failing. I give the floor to Mr Mackovík, who will lecture on Minister Ludvík, who just left us a moment ago, is duly excused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister has just left, so I'm just going to cut it short to the questions that will be answered in writing. I am interested in how it will be with the Act on Nonprofit Hospitals, which ČSSD promised before the 2013 elections, and whether this law will affect all health establishments in the Czech Republic or will be selective and will only touch faculty hospitals. I'm also interested in solving overtime. Because we all pretend that it's okay in our health care, but it's not. Overtime work is an integral part of the functioning of our health care, without which it simply cannot be done. But there's one basic disproportion. While doctors regularly receive overtime, nonmedical medical personnel are not regularly reimbursed and most employers try to circumvent it so that they simply do not have to give a single crown for it. The result is that our staff is leaving. We may meet personnel and technical equipment, but hospitals no longer meet personnel equipment, that in the department where the general nurse is supposed to be, so is the medical assistant, which does not comply with current legislation. So I'm wondering how we're gonna get on with this so we don't just get some of the selected hospitals where these people can get paid raises, and the others won't get paid and they'll just go to the big hospitals and we'll get the health services empty on the periphery. This is also the case with the upcoming and so much-groomed non-profit hospital law. And the last thing is whether or not the law on non-medical personnel, especially in the way they are educated, will change in any fundamental way, and how the current administration of the Ministry of Health feels about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u151	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interpellation will be answered in writing. Another interviewing Member is Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will direct his intervention to Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u152	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, at one of the first meetings of the Health Committee, we discussed the amendment to the Public Health Act. At that time, such a wave of opposition from the parental public, but also from the professional public, took note of vaccination and increased sanctions for doctors due to non-inoculation. At that time, I initiated a commission to address both the comments of the lay public and the professional public. At that time, your predecessor, Minister Němeček and Chief Hygiene, then Dr Valenta, made a commitment to conclude from the results of this commission and the agreed conclusion of this commission will be an incentive for the amendment to the Public Health Act. Unfortunately, today neither the chief hygienist is in office, Dr. Valenta, nor Minister Němeček. I just want to know how much the commission has completed its negotiations, whether there are concrete outputs from this commission that would be passed on in the legislative department of the Ministry, which is supposed to create the aforementioned amendment on the protection of public health. I ask for a written reply and also for an answer which comments from the commission will be incorporated into the new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u153	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. The next in line is Mr Vít Kaňkovský, who was here just a moment ago, but I don't see him anymore, so his interpellation is also failing. I will give the floor to Mr Mackovík, who will lecture on the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u154	Thank you again. I'm going to continue the first interpellation involving the executors. I wonder how many executors were in front of the disciplinary senate in 2015 and 2016. Then what were the reasons they ended up in front of the disciplinary senate, and thirdly, what was the subsequent decision of the disciplinary senate in their cases, that is, how they were punished. As for the reasons for disciplinary proceedings, I am really interested in some more detailed knowledge of how much execution we have in the Czech Republic and how serious the misconduct of the executors in the performance of our activities is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u155	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will reply in writing within 30 days. Mr. Michal Kučera will be the next in line to give us his interview. Interpelation is directed to the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u156	Thank you for the floor. In view of the absence of Secretary Šlechtová, I am downloading my interview and keeping it at the next meeting of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next in line with her intervention is Mrs Věra Kovářová. I don't even see anyone present in the hall, so this interpellation is failing. I give my word to Mr Radim Holečka, who will interpel the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u158	Dear Minister, so far, the State Institute for Drug Control has imposed a fine of 34 million on 22 pharmacies due to illegal drug exports. Crowns. It is mentioned in closed cases of 149 mil. Crowns. These are also medicines that pharmacists often complain about their lack of medicine. Which countries do they most often export illegally? How do you distinguish a legal report from an illegal activity? Are you considering a system solution?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u159	Thank you for the interview that will be answered in writing within 30 days. I give the floor to Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will lecture on the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u160	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, last time you said you had some experience with medicines. I'd like to ask you how you, as the long-time director of Motol Hospital, are looking at the issue of back-up bonuses. It is known that a number of medicines, but also non-medical devices, are traded with so-called return bonuses, that is, the company will supply medicines at a certain price, report them to the health insurance company at the highest price code list and then collect the difference in the form of bonuses from a particular company, which is then, in a better case, receiving the hospital, in the worst case, as was previously needed in Hospital Na Homolce, is the intake of some private individuals in the hospital. I'd like to know if you're gonna do something about this warped system. Because I don't know too many disciplines where such a way would be distorted prices. In my opinion, there is indeed fraud here, because medicinal products and medical devices are not traded at real prices, but at overpriced prices, and then real prices are reflected in the form of bonuses collected by hospitals. In my opinion, it would be clearly better if the price were to be realised, pharmaceutical companies or distributors delivered at real prices and hospitals paid real prices. I think it would save the whole system and be more transparent. I want your opinion on how you're going to deal with this and whether you're going to require faculty hospitals to buy at real prices, and the back bonuses have been removed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u161	Thank you, too. The Minister will answer you within 30 days. The next in line is Mr Mackovík, to whom I give my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u162	Thank you for the floor. I would like to submit that I will not use my next interpelation under No. 44, because I'm going to ask questions about the Minister now. I intersected here last Thursday, and I just intersected about the category of helicopters that were selected through ATEC, which started flying in Olomouc and was originally to go to Ústí nad Labem. This took place on Thursday, Monday after which the Ministry of Health abolished the tender for air rescue in Ústí nad Labem. As I read the various press releases that were published, it was precisely because of the uncertainty about helicopter competence in the corresponding performance class. So I ask how it is possible that, on the one hand, the Ministry has finally come to the conclusion that the uncertainties are there and that the class is not responding, and on the other hand, it leaves in Olomouc an operator with a helicopter that is not in that category, even if it was written in the tender procedure of the Ministry of Health that it must comply with that category. That is, is the contract signed, Minister, from 1 January to the base in Olomouc, and the contract is in line with the procurement procedure when the company does not operate a helicopter in the first performance class, or category A? I still want to ask whether, if a new tender is issued at Ústí nad Labem, you will change the parameters so that category A does not appear there anymore and you will reduce the requirements for the technical competence of helicopters, or you will follow European aviation regulations and you will demand that there be a helicopter in category A. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, you will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. I am now giving the floor to Mr Radim Holečka, who will present his interview to the absent Interior Minister Milan Chovanec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u164	Dear Minister, the Ministry of the Interior rejected the claim for compensation submitted by four of the five Čech kidnapped in Lebanon. Kidnapping wanted compensation for 40 miles. CZK, because they claimed that the secret services could have prevented the kidnapping, because they had information that retaliation was planned for the arrest of Lebanese agent Alí Fajád. What do you think of the matter personally, Minister, given the fact that attorney Jan Švarc was Fajádův's attorney?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u165	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. You will receive your reply in writing within 30 days. Mr. Michal Kučera is now taking the floor, who will present his intervention on the absent environmental minister Richard Brabec. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u166	Thank you for the floor. Given what I said in the previous interview, Minister Brabec is campaigning in the Ústí Region and is not present at the interpelations, I am withdrawing my intervention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u167	Thank you. It is now the turn of Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who will bring his intervention to Minister Jan Mládek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u168	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, according to publicly available sources, ČEB has lent almost 12 billion. CZK for the Adularya power plant project in Turkey. According to the latest information, the supplier is bankrupt, this is Vítkovice Power Engineering, and the investor in Turkey is also supposedly close to bankruptcy. Moreover, it was reported that the power plant had defective boilers, respectively. boilers that are unable to burn coal from a nearby quarry, that means that the boilers will probably need to be rebuilt. It follows that if all the worse variants come together, it is possible that this investment and the ČEB guarantee will go to waste. Minister Zaorálek was supposed to act in Turkey at the end of last year. I would like to ask if there has been any shift and if there is any chance that the power plant will be completed and ČEB and, in turn, the Czech state will not lose 12 billion. Crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. We have a nice change here. The Minister will answer us in person. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u170	Mr President, honourable Members, Mr Hovorka, let me say a few words about the Adularya project, which is the construction of a thermal power plant 2x 145 MW plus the construction of a malignant mine in Turkey. The project thus consists of three relatively separate parts: mining part, block A and block B of the power plant. This is a project financed through the export credit of the Czech Export Bank, which is secured by the Export Guarantee and Insurance Company. The total insurance exposure of EGAP amounts to 16.1 billion. Crowns. The outstanding amount of the principal amount of the loan amounts to a total of 11.7 billion. Crowns. Both companies came to an agreement on the common approach of the situation. The debtor is the Turkish company Adularya Enerji Elektrik, hereinafter ADU, which is part of the holding Naksan, whose daughter Naksan Plastik is also the guarantor of the project. Until now, the project has been implemented by EPC contractor exporter Vítkovice Power Engineering. Both blocks are at a high stage of completion. The first block has worked for several months before these mentioned problems with the quality of coal, which does not correspond to the boiler. The second block is roughly completed with 95 percent. The mine, the lignite mine is finished. Unfortunately, there have been two events that have complicated further developments in addition to the coal problem already. Not that the Turkish partner is near the audition. There it happened, whether truthfully or falsely owner of Naksan Holding, respectively. The family owned by Naksan Holding, also by Naksan Plastik, are considered to be supporters of Mr. Gülen, and after an attempt at coup, the owners are either in custody or those who were faster in emigration. The company was taken over by the Turkish deposit insurance fund TMSF, with which the Czech party also negotiates. This means Czech Export Bank and EGAP. The Turkish deposit insurance fund as an administrator has expressed itself in the sense that it does not intend to hold or operate the power plant in the long term. However, at the insistence of ČEB and EGAP promised to provide operational financing from the sources of investor and guarantor Naksan, but without financial participation of TMSF on completion. To be honest, Naksan Holding has already been a problem because Naksan Holding is a big company and 5,000 employees in a completely different field, which is plastic, manufactures mainly shopping bags for the global company Tesco. Following the completion of the current negotiations on material protection of the value of stopped assets by wintering and preservation, it is necessary to focus on further steps to negotiate with TMSF and Turkish government authorities on the further fate of the power plant, especially in terms of identification of the future owner and project operator in case of completion and start-up of the power plant. In the course of these negotiations it is necessary to continue to accentuate the priority interest of the Czech party on the repayment of the insured loan. In addition to the above mentioned meetings of ČEB and EGAP with TMSF, meetings of representatives of shareholders' departments ČEB and EGAP with representatives of TMSF are also taking place. So I would like to add, without avoiding responsibility, this is the deal that CEB and EGAP have made, and the shareholders have four. The main shareholder is the Ministry of Finance - about 40 percent. Then the Ministry of Industry and Trade - 24 percent, the rest have the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Agriculture. This shareholder ministry is working together to find some solutions. To make the situation even more complicated, the problem is also on the Czech side, because Vítkovice Power Engineering got into a situation where it was declared insolvency and is undergoing reorganisation. And the question is whether ČEB will be able to use this company, which is in a reorganisation, which means that such relatively complex operations as the completion of a thermal power plant - I am quitting now, Mr President - will be rather difficult to do, or whether another company will be found to complete the plant. [[Time warning.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u171	Perhaps there will be room after the additional question that the Member is interested in. So please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u172	Thank you for your answer. I'd like to ask. There are said to be two variants of how to actually start the power plant or ensure its smooth operation, and that is either the exchange or the modification of boilers for about 100 million more crowns to be able to burn coal from a nearby lignite mine or import coal from a greater distance, which would probably not be so profitable, virtually. loss-making. I would like to ask, however, that behind a particular loan or credit decision must have been the decision of the previous government. So there's also a certain, let's say, political responsibility. And then I'd like to ask you, when you said that the Turkish state fund doesn't want to hold and manage assets or the power plant in the long run, so if there's any chance that the Turkish fund might be looking for the owner. Or how it's going to be dealt with, the property relationship. Who's gonna run the power plant in the future? [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u173	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will respond. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u174	Yes, it is, it will. If the power plant is to be operated, it will be looking for a new solution, which is roughly in the intensities you indicated, Mr Member. Either the boiler changes or the coal changes. We'll have to hire a company to do that. Personally, I think it could be Škoda Praha, essentially a state firm, but this will, of course, only be the subject of negotiations where the primary responsibility is for ČEB and EGAP managers. And this company should propose the best solution. From a government point of view, I see another task. I am, of course, ready to go to Turkey because it is necessary not only to complete the power plant, but also to ensure electricity collection. The conditions for this are in Turkey because the plastics company has embarked on a completely different field, because there is little electricity in Turkey due to rapid development. So there's hope that they're gonna want to take the electricity off the grid, but there's no guarantee. In terms of responsibility, I'm afraid, it's not even the previous or the previous government, it's somewhere from 2008 to 2010. This means probably shared responsibility for Topolánkův and Fischerův's government. [[17.30 hours]] If it is possible to talk about an error that is quite obvious in contrast to things that are quite complicated, why it is not the corresponding coal there, but what is quite clear is that the Czech Export Bank should never have lent itself such a amount of money that it had to do some consortium or club financing and invite several other banks and reduce the risk, because the exhibition of the Czech Export Bank in one case, in one country, is too big. The only thing I can add to my defense is that the orientation to Turkey was guided by perhaps good faith in the diversification of the ČEB portfolio from the former Soviet Union to another country. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u175	Thank you for your answer. Next in line is Mr Stanislav Mackovík. I'm saying that in his previous performance, he withdrew this interpelation, he doesn't insist on it. Therefore, Mr Radim Holeček has the floor, who will present his interview with the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u176	Dear Minister, somewhere on the talk show, you said that flushing drinking water is barbaric. I was immediately attacked by some regulatory interference and your chimney controls. You're not gonna talk a lot to people, I mean ordering people to ban what they flush into, are you? How do the inhabitants of the househouses or apartment buildings who have no water other than drinking water come to this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-005-291.u177	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interview will be answered in writing within 30 days. At the same time, I note that this was the last oral intervention that was given today. I have no choice but to say that for today we have ended the oral questioning. For this reason, I am interrupting this meeting, which we will continue tomorrow, on Friday, January 20, at 9:00 p.m. on item 207. Have a nice evening, everyone.
