ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-008-211.u1	211. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand /German press 1000/ - first reading Please have the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek give the opening statement. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-008-211.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce a comprehensive economic and trade agreement with Canada, which is known under the abbreviation CETA. This agreement has been relegated several times in recent weeks and in the past hours in connection with the EU-Canada Strategic Partnership Agreement. During the hearing several times it was said that CETA should harm our citizens and the Czech economy. I would like to set that right now. In my opinion, CETA is one of the best trade agreements that the European Union and the Czech Republic have negotiated since its creation. The level of ambition and scope significantly facilitates trade, promotes economic growth and strengthens partnerships with our close ally. I believe that this agreement will become a model for negotiating with other countries, as well as in general for establishing rules and standards in international trade. In a similar vein, the European Parliament, which, by a clear majority, agreed to ratify the agreement, also expressed itself. Together with the agreement itself, we also present to you a national impact study that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has had to process. This describes in detail how CETA will affect the Czech economy and also what expectations some Czech companies have from the agreement. The study is publicly available on the website. Any citizen can read it, as well as the entire text of the agreement, which was published more than half a year before the signing of CETA. Now, however, I would like to mention at least a few of the most important facts why such an international agreement is also advantageous for the Czech Republic. First, it opens the 35 million-dollar market to one of the world's most developed countries. It offers new export opportunities for our businesses, thus bringing new jobs and contributing to economic growth. I remind you that the export-to-GDP ratio in the Czech Republic is around 80 percent, which shows how important open foreign markets are to us. The health of our economy depends directly on the ability to sell our products and services outside the Czech Republic. The CETA Agreement, inter alia, removes customs duties on all industrial products, which will mainly help the automotive sector, tyre manufacturers or medical technicians. At the same time, however, it brings even more fundamental benefits in the area of non-tariff barriers. It is precisely their removal that is the key to making trade between them easier and significantly cheaper. In many sectors, mutual recognition of product certification has been agreed, which are usually lengthy and costly processes, for which companies often resign to attempts to export goods outside the European Union. Our study showed that CETA would save companies directly up to 100 miles in this respect. In addition, it will encourage other companies to export, including small and medium-sized enterprises, for which these barriers are particularly restrictive. I see new opportunities for Czech exporters in various areas, e.g. in the engineering, metallurgical, chemical or pharmaceutical sector. In the case of services, we have significant potential in the field of construction, information technology, transport or distribution services. The Czech Republic will also benefit from indirect trade through exports to other EU countries outside its own exports to Canada, e.g. through car parts. CETA also provides us with an important free and transparent access to public contracts up to the regional level and easier posting of Czech workers to Canada. These are areas of great interest to many companies and therefore they now appreciate the result. Of course, we saw some criticism of the agreement during the negotiations, but it was often based on incorrect interpretation of its content. I therefore consider it a useful document, the so-called joint EU and Canada instrument for the interpretation of CETA, which explains the provisions that may raise concerns in the public. This document is binding on the interpretation of CETA, but it is not a direct part of the agreement. It is important that it be said that CETA does not interfere in any way with the regulatory powers of the EU and the Member States, so called. right to regulate is preserved. [[12.50 hours]] Only products that meet our standards and standards can continue to be imported into the European market. Investors and service providers must comply with local regulations. Our right to regulate in the public interest, the protection of public services and other fundamental principles on which the European Union is built is certainly maintained. We have already presented further details on CETA on 25 January for the presentation in the Economic Committee, which supported the ratification of the agreement as soon as possible in its resolution. All Members are also invited on 13 March to a full day conference on the implementation of CETA, at which will be an opportunity to meet the main negotiator in the EU, Maur Petriccion, and representatives of the Canadian Party. Finally, let me say that after seven years of intense and not always simple negotiation, the result is a modern and balanced agreement that supports the European and Czech economy and can serve as a model for the future. Occasionally, when I hear criticisms on CETA, I feel that CETA is a victim of the fact that many believe, especially its critics, that CETA is the front page of the TTIP Treaty, or the transatlantic partnership agreement with the United States. Here I would like to make it clear that CETA is not a front-runner at the moment, the treaty with the United States is in the bud, and at this point, Europe has, in principle, no one to negotiate with on the American side, because the new US President has opposed these agreements. So CETA is a contract in itself, it is not an opener, and therefore I would ask you to ratify the CETA contract by this honorable assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-008-211.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Matěj Fichtner, who is not present, as seen. Then I ask my fellow Members, who is able to take it? [[The vote from the plenary calls for a suspension of the hearing.]] Mr. Milan Urban, then. We will therefore vote first on the amendment of the rapporteur from Mr Fichtner to Mr Urban. I am opening the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 134, registered 100 Members, for 83, against none. The motion was accepted. I will ask Mr Milan Urban's rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-008-211.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think everything has been told by the Minister, and given the time, I will not further develop the details. If there are any questions, of course, I'd be happy to comment on them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-008-211.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I do not register any application - Mrs Aulická. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-008-211.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to express my position on this Treaty. This treaty is completely contrary to the rule of law, democracy and human rights. In terms of environmental protection and health, CETA means that fundamental European standards will be weakened and at the maximum limit for pesticide and endocrine disruptors. Furthermore, CETA weakens the European Union's GMO legislation. The quality of food in the Czech Republic will thus decrease even further. I therefore appeal to our colleagues not to support this Treaty in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, allow me to present some information from the discussion before the vote itself by CETA in the European Parliament. The Committee of the European Parliament on Employment and Social Affairs voted against CETA. To vote against, the International Trade Committee called for concerns about employment and workers' rights. In particular, MEPs raise doubts as to whether CETA would benefit from working conditions, reducing inequality or creating quality jobs. In the opinion voted, Members stressed that the evidence shows that the agreement will contribute to the deepening of income disparities between unqualified and qualified workers, thereby increasing inequality and social tension. In the comments after the vote by EFA member of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, Jean Lambert said: The arguments put forward in favour of CETA simply are not enough. As far as working conditions are concerned, the agreement is highly suspicious. The judicial system would create further rights for investors without doing anything meaningful for workers, an increasing imbalance in rights and protection. It would also risk increasing inequality. There are serious concerns that the agreement could contribute to the growth of income inequality, something that is already a huge problem in the European Union. We are all in favour of creating quality jobs. But the proof that this agreement would bring something in this area is as thin as paper. We expect the International Trade Committee to take these concerns into account when they give their final recommendations to Parliament. The Greens were strongly critical of how the procedure was and how it was handled with respect to CETA. Speaker Greens said: Today's decision highlights again many reasons why we joined NGOs and civil society in opposing CETA. But this also draws attention to the problem and the way in which these decisions are made. Parliament will have the last opportunity next year to show that it is willing to do something for the common good and refuse to give consent to CETA. The Greens/EFA political document adopted in November called (?) following radical changes in the procedures for negotiating and ratifying the trade agreement. It calls for the European Parliament to have the right to discuss common laws and future trade agreements and calls for large participation and transparency of the entire process by Members and civil society. The press release of the European Parliament's Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which also expressed its opposition to CETA, follows. On 8 December, the Committee of the European Parliament on Employment and Social Affairs adopted an opinion by a Member of the European Parliament, Georgi Pirinski, who calls on the Committee on International Trade, to recommend that the European Parliament refuse to agree with the proposal for a Council decision on the conclusion of an Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part. Before the final vote on the opinion of that committee, it rejected (?) the three amendments which proposed the consent to be given. This opinion has been supported by the majority of the members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs of the European Parliament and represents a significant benefit for all European citizens, workers, trade unions and non-governmental organisations, as well as for local and regional authorities both within the European Union and Canada, which advocate a new approach to trade agreements, the provision of the necessary guarantees for work, social and environmental rights, full respect for fundamental democratic principles and procedures and undisturbed privileges for public authorities, so that laws can regulate in favour of protecting public interests and promoting public well-being. The outcome achieved in the Employment Committee today provides an important impetus for the adoption of such an approach in the course of the forthcoming decisions to be taken within the European Parliament as well as in the national parliaments of the Member States as regards CETA, as well as the other complete trade and economic agreements to be negotiated. [[13.00 hours]] The first non-CETA vote came from the Employment Committee. The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs in the European Parliament rejected the notorious CETA agreement. While this vote was not binding, the vote on whether to accept the agreement will ultimately be held in the European Parliament. And now we know how this vote turned out. Trade Union Congress also calls for all British Members to join their colleagues in the Employment Committee and reject CETA. CETA represents a poor approach to trade agreements that must not be used as a template for our future negotiations for the future European Union, or British agreements. If the post-brexit agreement looked like a CETA, it would mean that the unions would be eliminated from the negotiation process and the agreement, which would open up a new (?) public services and other privatisation of public services, which contain no binding protection for workers' rights and give foreign companies the power to sue our government. By the way, many companies would not be satisfied with the CETA brexit agreement, because they would either not provide a barrier-free approach that trade can obtain through single market membership. And the single market for membership is also what I consider in the report issued this week to be the best option for our British economy and the way to protect jobs and social rights. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-008-211.u7	Thank you. And since the 13th hour has passed, I am interrupting this point in the general debate. I thank both the rapporteur and the Minister, and I am interrupting negotiations until 14.30 when we will continue with oral interpelations to the Prime Minister. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-008-211.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. Time's up for recess. The next item is
