ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u1	288. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, three replies were submitted to the interpelations which Members were not satisfied with and for this reason asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have two more to discuss. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the answers to its interpellation, and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka responded to Mr Vojtěch Filip's intervention on financing and activities registered by non-state non-profit organisations. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1049. The discussion of this interpelation was suspended on 6 April 2017. Mr Vojtěch Filip was duly enrolled in the debate at the time of the interruption. Member Stanislav Mackovík, Member Jana Hnyková and Member Jana Pastuchová were signed up for a factual remark. So I am opening the debate. Vice-President Vojtěch Filip first applied for it. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u2	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since some time has passed since this point, I will be quick to recall only the most basic issue, because my question was how the so-called nonprofits are financed and how the key is to decide how much and which non-profits receive money from the state budget, i.e. from the money of the Czech taxpayers. My question was not about volunteer firefighters, beekeepers, gardeners, cynologists, hunters, footballers, amateurs, or members of singing and other similar associations and associations. I consider it necessary to mention this explicitly, because the entire House may have understood this fact without any difficulty, and I don't know if you understand. Your response has shown that you, as Prime Minister, are probably separated from real life in the Czech Republic because I find it hard to believe that you would like to lie to the Chamber of Deputies. Honestly, I don't know which option would be worse in the Prime Minister's case. Your performance was a piece of data. I called it the accountant's answer, not the Prime Minister's. For example, you stated in your reply that all medical care in the Czech Republic is free of charge, and I feel that it is only covered by health insurance, and that the relationship between a patient and a doctor should not therefore be financial. This is really to be taken care of by the health insurance company that pays the care provider. The problem is, it's not true. I thought I couldn't hear well, and that I was a victim of some hallucinations. When I read the tape and was getting ready for tonight's performance, I calmed down that I really wasn't suffering from hallucinations. You really claimed publicly that all health care in the Czech Republic is covered by health insurance. I can tell you with a calm conscience, and I think everyone understands that this may only be the case with some of the chosen, perhaps in your case, and for other citizens, the non-premiers of our country, this statement is rather absurd. You stated that the Czech Republic is helping and how proud you are of it. I would like to draw attention to one fundamental fact that the funds used by the Czech Republic for humanitarian development foreign aid are the money of Czech taxpayers and that this assistance is more of the money of those who pay taxes in the Czech Republic's budget, not that you could own them as a government, because you are merely administrators of such funds. [[9.10 hours]] We can talk here about how many to whom and for how much we helped, whether your supported charity organizations are not a charity especially for your own employees. We can talk for hours and hours about the system of various agencies collecting money from the state budget, and it is also distributing to friendly nonprofits to different, forgive me, obscure projects. We can count millions, tens, hundreds of millions, billions. We can shoot with different numbers, funds, statistics, but I'm personally convinced that we're still not going to get any conclusions. The discussion doesn't go any further from where it started. It'll just be numbers and statistics. But I'd like to talk about something completely different. Behind these figures and statistics are living people and their often hard and sad life stories, stories of pain, sadness, but also stories of hope. Stories where many helping hands were offered to the needy and unhappy, with the only exception, and that was the helping hand of the state. With a few such fates, I would now like to introduce you, Prime Minister, and all the others present. Then I would like to ask you some very simple questions. I'm not going to talk about who we helped, I'm going to talk about who we didn't help, although I think we should. The first story is about Miss Alenka or Ilonka, whatever you want, I don't give the names entirely, because those people don't want it, I just know that this story exists, it's from the Plzeň Region. At the age of 23 she was diagnosed, until then a perfectly healthy student of the Faculty of Philosophy, a malignant tumor in the area of the head. She had surgery and subsequent radiation. The treatment looked very promising, the condition of the patient rapidly improved. After a few months, however, Alenka was diagnosed with post-radiation myelitis. This is a condition where spinal nerve pathways die from the disease and a gradual paralysis occurs as a result. Doctors have recommended treatment, but because of financial difficulty it refused to pay for our health care. Before the whole matter was discussed in the relevant places and the family was informed of the said negative opinion, her condition had already deteriorated so much that she had already been bedridden and completely dependent on the help of others. Collections, concerts and other events began to fund her treatment. There were a lot of people who tried their best to help when they turned their backs on Alenka. These people deserve respect and admiration. I am proud to be a fellow citizen of such people who help, but I cannot be proud of what the Czech health services have done. In your speech, Prime Minister, you mentioned that you are proud that the Czech Republic is involved in financing health care in refugee camps in Jordan. I have an overview here, it is Annex I - The topics of foreign development cooperation in 2017 and indicative outlook for 2018-2019. You can find colleagues and colleagues on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I ask - do you think it's okay that there is money in the budget of the Czech Republic to finance health care in refugee camps in Jordan when there is no money in medical care for Miss Alenka? Are migrants in Jordanian camps worth more to you for some reason than her case? Could you explain to her parents that their taxes - because they pay taxes - pay care somewhere else and their daughter is not left? The second story is about Mirek or Hynek, whatever you want. It's a three-year-old boy who almost drowned in a pool by accident. He survived, after two months of unconsciousness he returned and is completely dependent on the help of the nearest. Given his age, there's a great chance of returning to a full life. Intensive rehabilitation, neurologist care, speech therapy, medical aids should be provided. So far he has undergone treatment in Janské Lázně, therapy in the hyperbaric chamber and intensively rehabilitates at the neurorehabilitation clinic. Mirek needs intensive daily therapy that our health insurance system does not pay for. Therapy is financially demanding, four weeks will go to about 68 000 CZK, but it is a run on a very long track. According to the ma'am, Mirek's been working hard for years. There's a Mirkův for Mirek's treatment, people are trying to help, anybody can when he's on his case and turned his back on his parents. In your speech, Prime Minister, you mentioned that you are proud that the Czech Republic is involved in financing integrated health care for the mother and child, according to these documents, for example. Chad. And I have a few simple questions. They are formulated so that you just answer yes or no. Is it okay in your opinion that there is money in the budget of the Czech Republic to finance integrated health care for mother and child in Chad and not to finance treatment for three-year-old Mirek? Are mothers and children in Chad worth more to you than our children and our mothers for some reason? Could you explain that to Mirkův's parents? The third story is about a nine-year-old Daniela or Michalka, if you will. Since birth, he has an unknown disease that resembles cerebral palsy associated with central muscle hypotonia. This disease results in a general deterioration in the momentum of the body, which makes it impossible for a healthy person to move normally and completely eliminates a separate walk. Despite a difficult fate, the family is trying to provide Daniela with a full life and put her in a normal child's life. But that can't be without special aids and rehabilitation. The disease is manifested by the overall weakness of the muscles, shaking hands, impaired coordination of the whole body and a zero sense of balance. After increased physical exertion, the small patient is very quickly tired. That is why exercise, spa rehabilitation, and compensation aids are very important and thus improve Daniela's physical and mental state. The necessary compensatory aids and specialized treatment programme of the health system of the Czech Republic do not pay. The family therefore decided to try to get the money through collecting lids. The lids are collected from PET bottles, milk, faucets, but also from coffee or avivez, liquid washing pills, and one kilogram of lids is worth it, it gets six crowns. When you were in your performance, Prime Minister, he mentioned how proud you are of where we are helping everywhere and for example. I have a few simple questions again and, once again, just answer yes - no. Is it okay for you to find money in the budget of the Czech Republic to finance the support of people at risk of drought in Ethiopia and not to finance the treatment and rehabilitation of nine-year-old Daniela? What is more valuable to us - our citizens or the people of another state that we are helping? What does the state budget do? Can you explain this to Daniela's parents? The fourth story is about Anna, a three-year-old girl from northern Moravia, suffering from cerebral palsy. The only chance to improve her health is a special rehabilitation. The health system of the Czech Republic does not pay for this rehabilitation and the parents of little Anna cannot afford treatment. The fate of little Anka has sparked an unprecedented wave of solidarity in the place of her residence and surroundings, her treatment includes familiar families, but also completely strangers, from small schoolchildren to seniors in retirement homes. Concerts are held by local children's choir, people sell their own products in farmers' markets, volunteer firefighters and sports event organizers are involved. The proceeds from the activities go to the treatment of a little girl. Her parents want to do everything they can to help her in any way they can. The combination of cerebral palsy, epilepsy and nutritional problems is very difficult. The goal of the treatment is to try to improve the health condition of Anička enough to be able to sit alone and move in a wheelchair. The first wave of the collection ended at CZK 40,000 and continues. The treatment is very expensive and long-term. [[9.20 hours]] I have another question. If you are proud, Prime Minister, of how we can finance health care for the citizens of the Central African Republic, do you think it is okay that there is no money in the budget of the Czech Republic to finance health care for Anika and money for treatment elsewhere? Are the people of the Central African Republic more valuable to you for some reason than our Anička? And can you explain that to aniččin's parents? The last story not to be too long is the story of Adam. He's a four-year-old, born a perfectly healthy child. Because his development seemed unnaturally slow to his parents, they had their son examined for neurology and genetics in Brno. At the same time, it began to take place on a special exercise. After nine months of waiting for genetic test results, a diagnosis of merosine deficit congenital muscle dystrophy has been established. According to neurologists, the prognosis in children with this diagnosis is an electric cart for the rest of their lives. However, there is a small percentage of those who learn to walk and be self-sufficient. It's a small percentage, but it's hope for parents and little Adam, so they don't give up fighting the disease. They're still looking for ways to relieve their son of his problems and move him further along his path to independence. At the same time, stem cell therapy appears to be promising. However, this procedure is costly and the health system of the Czech Republic does not pay for it. Little Adam's parents have no choice but to try to get the money for treatment and compensation aids for their child through a collection. To visualize the items to which the selected funds are used. Treatment with stem cells CZK 1,600,000, intensive therapeutic stay CZK 24,000, wheelchair for children CZK 25,000, verticalizer Medico CZK 42 562 according to table, swimming course CZK 3,500, rehabilitation, acupuncture of CZK 7,000. These items are mentioned because you, among other things, questioned the purpose of similar collections in your performance. However, I consider such questioning to be the highlight of ill taste, disrespect, and arrogance toward parents of severely ill children, and to all who seek to help unselfishly and thus change the effects of the dislike of fate. You mentioned in your speech, Prime Minister, that you are proud of how we are involved in financing food security for the people of South Sudan. So I have a few simple questions. Is it okay for you to find money in the budget of the Czech Republic to ensure food security for the people of South Sudan and not to find funds for the treatment and rehabilitation of little Adam? Are the inhabitants of South Sudan worth more to you for some reason than Adam? And can you explain that to Adamův's parents? So that is five random examples and five pages of our humanitarian aid budget. I believe that these families have the right to expect the full support of our society. There must be hundreds of similar stories, maybe thousands. As I said in the beginning, these are the stories of those we did not help, although we had and could have helped them. It's the stories of those he turned his back on. Instead, through various organizations, but from the budget of the Czech Republic we make something completely different. Maybe we're electrifying somewhere, maybe we're teaching somebody democracy, and we don't have a choice for our own people. To people who pay taxes who build the Czech Republic as their home. Your performance, Prime Minister, has made it clear that you're distracted from reality. Totally. In full nakedness shows the thinking of a person who has completely alienated himself from his own people, and maybe he can pat himself on the shoulders in Brussels with others who think that's how it's supposed to be. The task of the state, i.e. the Czech Republic, must be to meet the needs of its own people. That is why states have been created, and that is why citizens pay them through taxes. I think that these life stories are sufficiently eloquent, just as they are clear enough questions that I have asked about this. Dear Prime Minister, I hope to have a clear answer from you for clear questions. I would like us not to drown in accounting and to justify that the decisions we make for our citizens for their money are really in their favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u3	I thank the Vice-President. Before we move on to the next one entered into the debate, there are further apologies. Mr David Kasal apologizes today from 9 to 13 o'clock for health reasons, Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes today until 11 o'clock, Mr Karel Rais apologizes for today's work, Mr Jan Farský apologises between 11.30 and 13 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Martin Kolovratník apologises today from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Mr Martin Lank apologises from 9 to 11 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Vladislav Vilímec apologises for working reasons for the whole working day, and Mr Václav Zemek apologizes today for working reasons, and Vice-President Radek Vondráček apologises from 9 to 13 for health reasons. These were note cards, and the next one entered in the debate is Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u4	I'll only respond briefly. I would like to thank President Filip for the contribution and for the way he prepared these things. The last time we talked about this, our health care doesn't really pay for all our care, as the Prime Minister has told us. And what President Filip has said here is clear evidence of that. Besides, it's not news to us. We all know very well that this is the situation. I have already mentioned, about two or three times in the course of this Chamber of Deputies, here, the pledge of the Member, which we made at the beginning of this Chamber of Deputies, when we committed ourselves to defending the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. And what President Filip has said here shows that, unfortunately, this has not always been done by the government or by this Chamber of Deputies. It's very sad that the condition is like this. And I absolutely agree with President Filip's words that our Prime Minister is either completely detached from reality or cynically declaring things that he knows cannot be true. The nonprofits. In recent days, I found to my shock that Czech nonprofits work in Mongolia, for example, where they deal with the education of Mongolian prisoners, how they should participate in the work process after leaving the prison. This is a very meritful activity - absolutely pointless, which cannot lead to a goal. However, a person in distress, a very rich nonprofit who receives subsidies from the state budget, spends money in this way. What can I say? I think that instead of other cynical words that will refute what President Filip said, the Prime Minister should not react at all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u5	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Stanislav Mackovík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen I just want to make a point about health care again. The Prime Minister was recently quoted in the media that the Ministry of Health would pay for air rescue interventions that he did not want to pay for. This has not yet happened, and the Ministry is again investigating another case where the helicopter flew for the patient after a ministerially official flight time. Prime Minister, many of the nonprofits that work in the Czech Republic parasite from the system only work purposefully to have money for themselves, to pay their wages, to pay their salaries, and to do nothing for the state. On the contrary, for state money, they may be doing the different billboards against the government, against the Members, against the laws. But it is necessary to decide who will rule this country and who will set up some parameters of the game here. [[9.30 hours]] Many nonprofits here have taken part in the role of judges of prosecutors, and they are quoted by the media and influenced by public opinion. I think it is wrong that the disproportion between the one who is right and the one who is lying should be clearly established and the state should not be involved in the fact that various villains here will grow and influence public opinion for public finances. I really think that money belongs primarily to the weak, for the sick, and not to those who merely parasite and become richer. I think we need to change the system. When you look at the Internet, how many nonprofits are funded from public finances and what they actually do, it's a disaster. If the government gave this money somewhere else, it would be better for all citizens of the Czech Republic, and I think that is the whole problem. That's why I can't agree that everything is perfectly okay. And once again, I'm wondering when the Department of Health will start working for patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Klán, duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, colleagues. Let me develop a little bit here not a theory, but a real practice as to how things are related to the register of contracts - nonprofit organizations, pressure group Reconstruction of the state and others. So that we can see how this is all connected and whether or not someone here is subject to the pressure of non-profit organizations. I'm not going to say anything like Vice-President Filip or colleague Mackovík here, I'm going to focus specifically on the register of contracts and the one who succumbed to the pressure in the Senate and was afraid of the State's reconstruction. I am very sorry that it was the Senators of Social Democracy who voted in favour of the House's version of the register of treaties when we removed all state and semi-state enterprises to protect them from overwhelming globalisation and the various globalization pressures they want to eliminate. Unfortunately, that's true. Then they admitted that they were afraid of reconstruction of the state. I know a lot of Members weren't afraid here, and I hope they won't be afraid when the contract register is being discussed, the reconstruction of the state or any people who come here to sit on the gallery and take pictures of us and look at us with different glasses. I hope that this will not happen and that we will simply support the House version and remove state-owned enterprises. That's one thing. That's not what I'm gonna talk about right now. But I'm going to talk about the link between nonprofit organizations. You know, in today's globalization, there is a trend where various non-governmental non-profit organizations are formed, and they are like mushrooms after rain. And these non-governmental non-profit organizations often milk the state. I'm the one who said he was gonna finish it for purpose. Those are so-called milkers. They're really sucking the state out. They're still asking for something, and they're not supposed to be in the contract register? That's so weird, because instead of uncovering exactly where the money is going, they're gonna say, you know, we're not gonna do it, what if they figured out exactly where they're going, so that's why we don't want to be there. And I remember when the contract register was being discussed here, by your means to a colleague of Farský, who said that nonprofits should actually be there because they are recipients of public money. And that's true. They're the beneficiaries of public money. I think we can all agree on that. The only problem was the decisive period during which the contracts were actually to be published, whether last year, this year or the next year. I don't know. And that's what my colleague Vondráček said. I was talking to him. He says, "Have you tabled the amendment?" And I say it was served here. It was served by MP Foldyna. I voted for him. And he keeps saying, "But there are some mistakes, there are some weird mistakes, there's no way to vote, and there would be a lot of confusion, and if we filed it in the Senate. I was saying why would I put it in there when you're still talking about it, that the nonprofits belong there, but you didn't raise your hand for it. And even more smiling was that, as the colleague is somehow linked to the reconstruction of the state, he often calls the reconstruction of the state as to how to vote, and then gets involved in all of this. The reconstruction of the state is certainly such in quotation marks as the mouthpiece of a political movement. I don't know, I don't want to oversell this place in any way, but it could be a loudmouth. But now let's see how much reconstruction is actually paid for. They write about me on some profile that I'm a magician and some semi-professional shaman, I don't know what they have about me, it doesn't bother me in any way. So how are they paid? They are, of course, paid by a lot of so-called donors, which are often private corporations that pay them to purposefully weaken the position of the state. This means that in the future, as the state will be weakened, it is the non-governmental non-profit organisations that want to replace the state. It's a globalization trend. And I regret that not only we as Parliament of the Czech Republic, but also many other states are subject to this pressure by non-profit organizations. It's not just our trend, it's just a global trend. The more we are subject to this, the more nonprofit organizations will replace us. What is the nonprofit sector supposed to do? He's just supposed to supplement the state in sectors where he's somehow failing, or he's not strong enough to deal with it properly in some way, whether it's the care of the elderly, we've been dealing with it here. In some way, the state is failing a little bit, and that's where the non-profit sector is supposed to complement it. I fully understand that. But I don't understand why nonprofit organizations should purposefully weaken the state and then replace it. This is what non-governmental non-profit organizations do, which are unwilling, and it can be true and may not, paid both by private capital and even by taxpayers' money. They can apply for subsidies. The claim that they are not recipients of public money, that is why we are not supposed to be there, is completely odd. They're the recipients of public money because they're asking for money. But let's see who actually pays for the reconstruction of the state that we're actually afraid of. Not me, I'm not afraid of her at all, but there are people who are subject to special-purpose pressure when they do billboards, for example. So let's see who's got it all. I looked at their famous transparent account, where there are payments included. The most generous is the Student Agency. Yes, we have also discussed this here when we discussed the register of contracts, the Student Agency, namely Mr Jančura. Over that time this month, he's sent over a quarter of a million crowns to their account. Such a beautiful, interesting amount. Only this month, not even two weeks. You can read it here. [[The Member reads from this document.]] There's $100,000, $250,000 and that kind of amount. Don't you find it strange that it supports the reconstruction of a state that is designed to reconstruct according to their logic, but is it purposefully weakening them? Because they say you're going to vote the way we want, because we want a contract register set up like this, or we're going to defile you somewhere. Don't you think that's weird? I find that very strange. Moreover, when the Student Agency, as a carrier with trains, buses receive money from the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. You don't think it's weird that money flows to him, and then he can just send it out like that? I mean, it's all connected. When I look at the account, there is a lot of Y Soft Corporation, for example, a private corporation that supports the reconstruction of a state that will purposefully weaken various sectors of the state. And we're gonna take it here? Either we defend the state as a whole and defend the state institutions, or we will be subject to increasing globalisation pressure on private capital. I find it very sad. And I won't be subjected to pressure. I've never done it, and I won't do it now, even if they can write about me whatever they want. But when we look at the other links, it's interesting that the exclusive donors are different chambers of commerce. So these chambers of commerce want to see how the state manages, or how its state enterprises manage. They want to see who you signed a contract with, who you have what you have with. And when I asked the fundamental question, how does a citizen know a disadvantageably signed contract from the register of contracts, I was answered: "You know, Mr. Ambassador, simply - according to the price. How can you tell by price when the cheapest doesn't mean it's the best? That's the first thing. How do we know that as citizens? You can't tell, you can never tell. Only private corporations that pay for the best lawyers and economists will know that. A citizen who's operating in that contract register and who's operating in the fight against corruption won't be able to tell. He'll never know. [[9.40 hours]] You know, I think the contract register is unconstitutional. He's unconstitutional. It really is unconstitutional, because it reduces one ownership, a state, at the expense of the private one. There's a logical contradiction. And we like it here when we say, we just have to publish all the contracts that state-owned companies make. And again. We're just gonna put it there, okay, the state's gonna publish it, and what's private capital gonna do? He's gonna look into the contract register, and he's gonna get the information he needs from it. And when somebody says to me, "Well, business secrets will be blacked out." Ladies and gentlemen, we live in a time of globalization. And the globalization pressures are strong, i.e. any competition from the contract, even where it will be blacked out that there is simply a business secret, can read any things to weaken the position of the national state or state enterprise concerned. He's always gonna read it, like, an example of Buddha Budvar, when I said that Anheuser Bush, who used to walk around like a dog, was already here in Plzeň, and then somehow got into a cross with that Budvar when they tried his brand. And then all of a sudden, Budvar posted something about sending a jar somewhere in the Balkans, and the reconstruction of the state was a lot of fun, but it could have been a big problem. And they blamed it on the fact that actually Budvar didn't even know what he was going to publish in that register, so he'd rather post everything there just to be sure, because what if the contract wasn't valid later? Do we really want to put pressure on non-profit organizations that are not in the contract register? I don't want to do this. I don't want to do this, and I'm always here to protect state interests and state-owned businesses. It is precisely because competition wants to eliminate them, and we can talk about it possible and impossible. The example of the Student Agency was already mentioned in the Senate by Senator Radko Martínek, who described the whole place brilliantly, what is the connection and what is here is that it is simply about weakening the Czech national carrier České dráhy so that later, sometime in the future, the Student Agency could replace it. That's why he's got cheap tickets and stuff. This kind of thing happened in the United States of America, when Walmark deliberately reduced prices to eliminate competition. That's actually happened before. That is why I do not understand why we as the Czech Republic should have a register of contracts, Slovakia still has it so that I do not wrong them, but there have been many adjustments and they would rather not, because there have been various problems, but we are not talking about that here. We're talking about the fact that when some state enterprise - I don't think a lot of people even read the state enterprise law, and it really turned out to me when I was talking in some way at a seminar on the CEVRO Institute contract register with the State reconstruction, they didn't even read what it was about the State enterprise law. When a state enterprise somehow publishes the contract, it's already weakened. At that moment, he's already weakened before the private capital. And I say, he'll always be looking for any loopholes. And they say, well, nothing happened in a year, all state-owned enterprises work. Yes, do you think the competition will destroy the other competition from day to day? Don't believe it. It's a long-term process. This is a long-term process for several years. For example, two or three years will be watched by the competitor, as things are, and then attacks, weakening him purposefully. It's not a process for us to liquidate a company in a week, but that's a really long-term process. It took several years in the United States with that Walmark company. It took five to six years. But that's gonna happen. This will happen if state-owned enterprises remain in the contract register. That's just gonna happen, unfortunately. And I don't want to be signed under it because I protect the interests of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u9	I thank Mr Jan Klán for his speech. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. We will continue with Mr Soukup's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had a pretty bad time. Maybe you'll remember that I've initiated a migration point here. I've prepared a speech that I haven't had a chance to make here. I posted it on social media, and a journalist added information that a migrant would receive 21,000 as a dose. That caused a huge response. And I didn't talk about it anywhere in the interview. However, then I looked at what the possibilities really were. Assuming the migrant gets political asylum with us, and it's perfectly okay, because our migrants after 48th, 68th also got help abroad from those countries where they found a new home, so let's count the amounts. Housing allowance, housing supplement, benefits in material distress, possibly parental allowance, etc., so he can actually get to that amount. He's the bigger problem. Indeed, there are not many migrants here, as the government claims, at the moment. Thanks for that. However, these benefits are received by people, and by a large number of people who are actually getting more money than the pensioner or pensioner. A lady who spent her whole life writing on a typewriter, ten thousand pensions, minimal. And so on and so forth. This money, to which the recipients who parasite on our social system do not have the money, nor does the clerk who equips them with social benefits. It's just a bigger problem. Let's ask ourselves who's responsible. I think we're responsible for that. While we have beautiful laws that in some way allow these people to be exposed in some way, to prevent social benefits from being abused, they are little effective. I must say, then, that I am ashamed of those people who work their whole lives and then have such low pensions. I'm ashamed of those who work for minimum wage and work basically... If they weren't working, and if they applied for welfare, they'd be better off. But the nature of man should be working. Now to nonprofit organizations. I am also a member of the Regional Council and now requests for subsidies from non-profit organizations. We have chosen such a method, I work there in the Committee on Security and Minorities, that we want them to prove to us how they have handled the money in recent periods. They're not willing to prove anything like that at all. They say we're entitled to it, so give us the money. There are organisations such as Man in Need or our organization at the Office of the Government, the Agency for Social Inclusion, which receive huge resources, and I ask how effectively these funds are used. These organizations work in excluded localities. That's a really serious problem. And all the time, year after year, we hear when we ask for the efficiency of the funds spent: it's a long run. It's been 15 years, 20 years, 25 years. How much longer is the track going to be? I think it is high time that this money - firstly, that we ask for an assessment of the effectiveness of spending this money, and secondly, that we give it with the fact that they are already being tasked in some way. It's not just about visiting families and convincing them to send children to school, etc. This is also about evaluating how many children, let's say, got out of the excluded locality in high school. This needs to be asked how unemployment has decreased or how employment has increased in those excluded localities. I think that if we're giving this money, and I'm going to be pushing for this to be the case for this year, we should be doing specific tasks by now. The specific task of how much you, as a člověk in Need, increase or decrease, let's say, the absence of children in schools, how much you increase employment in excluded localities, etc. We just need to be consistent. [[9.50 hours]] We just have to be consistent. In relation to what I'm talking about, the 21,000, I'm getting tens, maybe hundreds of e-mails. I really messed up. And there's a great deal of anger among people. Huge anger, because these people don't want to put up with the fact that they're throwing away funds that could serve to increase their pensions, to improve their conditions - I mean the people who work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u11	I thank Mr Soukup. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u12	My colleague Zdeněk Soukup and I absolutely agree that we should ask for the effectiveness of the money spent. But I will not forgive myself here to remind myself that we have already discussed this on the petition committee, where the budget chapter of the Office of the Government falls. We've been asking for some kind of efficiency report to be submitted on how nonprofit organizations work. On this basis, last year, I tabled an amendment in the form of an amendment to the state budget, where I, for non-profit organizations dealing with the integration of the Roma community - their famous theme and there are thirty-forty, the results are zero, because nothing has changed - he made a condition, not to withdraw, but made it conditional that half of the funds they receive should be after proof of the results of their activities. This amendment failed. And, of course, he did not pass the votes of the government coalition, or even the ANO parliamentary club. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u13	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. [[Mr Ondráček is reporting on the left.]] Mrs Hnyková, who was enrolled in the first phase, and then Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u14	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice morning, everyone. I'd like to get back to those nonprofit organizations. Yes, it's been said here today. There are non-profit organizations, I would like to divide them into two groups - those that are needed for this society, which are variable, which help in the social field, in interest activities, and those people who work in these organizations, I appreciate very much because they really do a very useful thing. On the other hand, however, non-profit organizations that have an unclear goal, a vague vision. We have repeatedly dealt with organisations that work in inclusion, etc. in our Sub-Committee on Non-Insurable Supply Systems. etc. We wanted to know the result of what was happening to them, what was actually the result. In the Committee on Social Policy, we dealt with organisations accompanying foster families. We asked them to clearly set their standards. They're also nonprofit organizations. And we know there's a big difference between them. That is why I think it is not worth blaming anyone at the end of the term. I want to say that we may have all made a mistake that we have not pushed since the beginning of this parliamentary term to create clear rules for the functioning of non-profit organizations, just as it has been said here, such as Man in Need, Reconstruction of the State. Luckily, she left me alone because I told her she wasn't transparent, so she never called back, so I'm done with her. But I want to say that in this, and my fellow Members, who we are going to be here or not in the next parliamentary term, I think that we should set ourselves a primary objective in this area, that rules should be laid down for the functioning of non-profit organisations, so that their activities are transparent, so that they run according to the rules, so that they can be documented. And we shouldn't let that go. I think this is very important for the future, for spending money. Yesterday we were discussing a point here about raising money for social services workers. Maybe if it had spilled into that area, there would have been more money. I hope that this resolution adopted will benefit the cause and that the government will quickly find money to increase the salaries of workers in social services. So I just want to say, we don't like this situation at the Dawn - National Coalition, but we know that now is a very short time for us to change anything in this area. It's a challenge to the future. And I think it's all our responsibility. And I'm gonna get back to the health care. When I originally wanted to perform in my first post, I was very excited to get out of my chair when we were discussing in the Health Committee of the House Press 1017, when the limit of returning to people, seniors and families who have children under the age of 18 is reduced, the contribution for medicines. It's all right. But it's no longer said to the public that it's only for one drug in a given group. I've asked the minister to hang the medical bills in every office that people get, so these people know it, so it's transparent. Because we have to say that for every person, a doctor is something sacred, someone they turn to for help. And when the doctor tells them that this medicine is the best, no one says, no, doctor, I don't want it. These people don't know. That is why I asked the Minister, and I also want you, Prime Minister, to keep these people informed about these medications, so that every doctor's office should bear what these people are entitled to. I wouldn't wish for anything else except for people to be informed about their options. And the fact that you're saying they're gonna get the cash back, it sounds really nice on the outside, but it's not for all the drugs. It's only for one drug in a given group. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u15	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Now, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I would probably respond to Mrs Hnyková, who said that we have not done anything about this over the last few years, for the transparency, and finding out how some nonprofit organizations work, and she has not exactly been so true. There are some things we have done, and maybe I can show you the interpelations that I gave to the Prime Minister, or the Minister of the Interior, about one particular non-profit organization, which has already been mentioned by a colleague, a colleague... [[Help from the bench: Zdeněk Soukup.]] Zdeněk Soukup, yes, thank you. I can't come up with his name, my friend. [[Laughs in the hall.]] In May 2016, I interviewed the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior around the non-profit organization HateFree Culture, which operates here and has written on its website: HateFree Culture is an initiative for people who seek life without violence and hatred. As we are aware of the complexity of coexistence, respect and tolerance, we are convinced of the existence of sensible, creative and innovative ways to improve them. Life in fear and hate brings nothing positive. HateFree Culture offers you the opportunity to view things from different angles, to look for solutions with others and, above all, to create and share what matters. On the website you will find that HateFree boasts that it has a strong background at the Office of the Government and the expertise of the Agency for Social Inclusion. I asked the Prime Minister in May 2016 about this project and about this cooperation of the Office of the Government with this organisation. [[10.00 hours]] The Prime Minister told me that the entire campaign against violence project's budget is - listen - without a crown of 39,750 thousand. Crowns. [[He's repeating the amount.]] The budget for project activity under the name of the national media campaign HateFree Culture, which is one of the seven activities of the project, is 7 630 thousand. The chapter of publicity of 9 880 thousand is also used for the dissemination of media campaign outputs. Crowns. It is a considerable amount of money spent on the purchase of broadcasting times, rental of advertising space and leaflets, advertising and advertising on the Internet, advertising in the press and public promotions and presentations, screening of films, exhibitions, festivals etc. The Prime Minister agrees with me. In my interview, I mentioned that criticism from the Radio and Television Broadcasting Council was also heard for inappropriate emphasis on HateFree's products, which said that HateFree has a purchased advertising package of broadcasting times, including product placement, e.g. as part of the Street series. The Prime Minister then described how many posts, how many hours, and so on, who makes these activities. I was interested in why cooperation between the Ministry of the Interior was concluded - and a memorandum on mutual cooperation between the Czech Republic and the Agency for Social Inclusion was concluded - and why police specialists were trained. I suppose I know pretty well the structure of the police. We have many specialized services, including those dealing with extremism, terrorism, and there are top workers who train, say, their colleagues at the lower articles of police structures, whether regional or district directorates. I asked the Minister how many police officers are trained under the auspices of the HateFree Culture and how many took place in 2015, 2016, where the training took place, who provided them etc. etc. and how much money has been spent on this, and whether the Minister of the Interior does not think that we would be able to arrange this within our staff of the Police of the Czech Republic or of educators from police schools, whether secondary police schools or the Police Academy of the Czech Republic. The Minister replied that members of the Police of the Czech Republic are on issues such as racism, xenophobia, hate violence, etc. education in the long term and continuously. Apparently, he thought I didn't know. The training within my campaign is only supplementing this process with an accent on some aspects of police work, e.g. working with victims of crime... Working with victims of crime. Firstly, we have specialists who help victims of crime. Every police directorate and police presidium has a department of psychological intervention and assistance where we help victims of crime. It is at every Regional Directorate and the Police of the Czech Republic cooperates very closely not only with the White Circle of Security but also with other organizations that are also non-profitable, but are not leeches on the state budget like this company. The Minister told me that declared cooperation is the education of activities for police in the Ústecký and Moravian-Silesian Region, the preparation of methodology, the implementation of seminars, representational events, instructional videos for police, voluntary didactic material and the instruction of SPOD victims of hate violence. He replied to my questions that it was six two-days, three-day and one-half-day trainings that he attended in 2015 - I do not know if I said the amount that was spent in the order - I will find it - several, six or seven million, 81 police officers took part in the police service, 113 members of the criminal police service. In the case of the Ústecký Region, training took place in the premises of the Ústecký Region Police Centre and in the case of the Moravian-Silesian Region at a similar facility of the Municipal Directorate of Police in Ostrava. Long-term guarantor, etc... Police did not spend any money on these trainings, only provided suitable training facilities and the other costs were borne by the project's realizer. In the next year, i.e. In 2016, 112 additional police officers are to be trained. So if I sum up, the amount of CZK 3,522,818 is earmarked for the Ministry of the Interior in the chapter of the campaign against violence. Believe that the police have enough experts and quality people to train terrorism, extremism, racial intolerance, and anything else. This is just a washing machine. Money machine. And if I was a law enforcement authority, I'd be able to figure out where the money goes. I think that's where they're going. Unfortunately, I can't prove it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u17	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček for his speech. And before I give the floor to Mr Marek Černoch, I shall read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr František Laudát apologizes within 13 hours for reasons of work. Mr Marek Černoch, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have a few words about what has been said here by my previous speaker, Mr Ondráček, through you. It's all true, and I'll add a few things to that. I interviewed several times just within the nonprofit HateFree Culture. She's not a nonprofit. He's just a project, which isn't written anywhere. The whole thing looks like a nonprofit, but it's just a project that's under the agency that really costs those without a crown of 40 miles. The crowns you were talking about. I'm bohužel so. Even the top leader said during an interview on the radio that their work is to tape stickers, to host discussions on social networks. And that's it. So the money that's being put into this project really runs out of nowhere. Now I've been trying to find the materials I've been looking for recently. The government's office asked for funding and where the money was going and was politely sent to certain limits, saying that the government would find an annual report on the inclusion agency's website, that they wouldn't say anything more, because it's not a nonprofit, but it's just a project. And so I looked, I found the annual report. In these items, which are divided into about thirty categories, there are several items called other expenditures, other expenditures, and similar things, i.e. a nomenclature that clearly says - no one knows where the money goes. The people who work on this project are about ten, at least that's how it was read on the government's website. Ten people. Again, it is unclear what these people are doing and what their salaries are, because the salaries are shown in the pay box. And I think it's pretty vague information. And the salaries from the experience we have will be more than generous. Unfortunately, these projects are so opaque that no one will find out how funding takes place within these projects or non-profit organisations at all. There are a lot of them, and they are nonprofits whose work is completely opaque again. I have absolutely nothing against nonprofits doing the things that are needed - helping people who need help. But the nonprofits that, from my point of view, are created just to make a business out of it, I think there's at least half of them. And so are sports agencies. We talked about this last time. The football union, which draws huge money, but the little clubs in the villages that would really like to do the sport with the kids, begging for every crown. [[10.10 hours]] So there is a lot of opaqueness in this, and I completely agree with what has been said here. I've intersected here several times, and we've tried to develop a debate several times. It is four years of government, and until now, nothing has happened more or less within the framework of the financing of non-profit organisations and, above all, the transparency of non-profit organisations. And I'm not talking about the reconstruction of a state that really is the pressures that are, and the texts that we get, and where it says, think about how you're going to vote. In other words, think about whether you're gonna ride the bus or not, or you're gonna be on the billboards. Then we'll actually find out that we have a colleague here who's actually a clown or a magician, sorry. One magician, one clown. I think it's pressure. And it is the responsibility of every policy of how it stands up to its work. It is his responsibility to explain this to his constituents or how he will explain it to the citizens of the Czech Republic. He doesn't represent here, and I beg to differ, he doesn't represent state authorities or state institutions here, he represents citizens of the Czech Republic. And if it's pushed by a nonprofit organization, I think if his consciousness and conscience say otherwise, he should face it. But I know the pressure is high, and it's not a criticism at the moment. I just think it creates an overall atmosphere. And if the funding of non-profit organisations is not set, there are no clear rules for the system how they operate, then the pressure will only increase. It won't get better. It will only increase, and funding to non-profit organizations will continue and nothing will change. Here was the thesis, let's change it for the future, because it's almost the end of the term. All of a sudden, there are articles in the media every day about raising salaries for those, raising salaries for those. Why didn't you do it in four years? A fundamental and fundamental question, you've had enough time. The government coalition didn't, but that's part of those nonprofit organizations. It is appropriate to make the money that goes into these largely black holes to get to those who really need the money. To get into the state budget and be used for education, social policy or anything meaningful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u19	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. I have two factual points by Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and Mr Fiedler and then a proper application by Mr Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u20	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to thank Marek Černoch for completing my performance. And at the same time, I would like to fill in his, because I did the question of salaries and the number of employees. So the Prime Minister's answer. On all seven activities of the campaign against racism and hate violence, a total of ten people work in half-time. All staff working on the project shall work within the framework of an employment agreement or work agreement. Work agreements are limited to a maximum of 80 hours per month, the work agreement is limited to 300 hours per year. The Hatefree national campaign, which your question is directed at, is secured by four jobs in the scope of two jobs and is a schedule of individual projects of the seven, how who is working on, on which posts. So it's all okay with the labor code. It is a pity that the Prime Minister did not fill in the man's hourly rate, because even in part, he may earn more than we do here in the Chamber of Deputies. But in any case, certainly more than the average citizen of the Czech Republic. That means his average salary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u21	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček for his time. On the factual point, Mr Karel Fiedler's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u22	Yes, I will immediately follow up on the words of my colleague Zdeněk Ondráček and what my colleague Marek Černoch said. Some time ago, an envelope landed in my regional MP's office with an annual report from the nonprofit organization of the year, which deals with the inclusion of the Romani community. I left it on the table for a while, took it the next week, started browsing, reading, took a calculator and started counting. According to the number of employees, according to the payroll box, I calculated roughly the social and health insurance contributions and it appeared to me that in such a nonprofit, the average wage is 20 percent higher than the average wage in this state. It's a nonprofit. That's where the profit goes in your pockets.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u23	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Mr Jan Klán's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u24	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, allow me, by means of you, to respond a little bit to the debate here. Of course, I agree with those conclusions. It is really necessary to make nonprofit organizations transparent, because they are not nonprofit, they are often profitable, as if, in quotation marks, only. Not that they're making a profit, but with the money they get, they're brilliantly managed, in some cases best in their pockets. That's also true. But I'm more concerned about Mr. Marek Černoch's statement. Did the State's reconstruction send you texts? Well, hat off, then. You've come a long way to even write you some text messages. I hope it's not sometimes at night that they don't wake you up, even though I would believe that the pressure will be done especially early for the morning at four o'clock. It's always best done, they're different psychological methods. But then it's worth considering why they were blackmailing you like that? I mean, you guys supported the contract register. You voted for it. When I asked you back then if it bothered you that the contract register was so badly set up, you said we'd just let it go, so we could finally get rid of it. And that's how it all turned out that we're finally in a vicious circle here, and nonprofit organizations are completely out of the contract register. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u25	I thank Mr Jan Klán. Now, Mr Miroslav Opálka's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, given that the debate is directed only towards the non-profit sector, I would like to point out that we therefore have at least two types of non-profit organisations. Those who live well out of public money, and those who often find it difficult to earn that money. And those are the ones that do social services. In fact, such a nonprofit who does not have this VIP support from the state begins the year by not having a closed annual report, has to report for grants and subsidies and how many times the first quarter of the new year is provided by a commercial loan for which the manager guarantees the company's assets. So we need to see the non-profit sector from at least two perspectives. And then the nonprofit doesn't even know if she's gonna get all that money, at least the ones she's got in the past, if she's gonna keep those projects that she's got sustainability on, and if she's gonna have all the employees' salaries and she's gonna keep her clients or she's gonna have to let some of them go. So the complexity is very serious, and maybe it would be good for the state leadership to discuss how to redirect money from nonprofits that do no good, to those that are proven to benefit here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u27	Thank you, Mr Miroslav Opálek, for keeping time on the point of fact. [[Let's hear it from the Members on the left.]] One more point in fact from Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u28	Thank you for the floor. By your means to Mr Opálek and to Mr Klán. I'll start with my colleague, Opálka. Bingo. You said it perfectly well. Yes, there are nonprofits that care for handicapped children and that start a year by asking for each crown so that they can continue their initiative at all. And they do it because they want to help people. Those are bad luck. Then there are nonprofits that have government support or that are now very sexy about the integration of minorities and immigration and immigrants and so on, which have sanctification not only from the government or from the highest circles, but also from the EU. Because that is what the EU wants to do most today. [[10.20 hours]] And they have life from my point of view absolutely beautiful, simple and easy in terms of financing activities. Where the money goes, that's another thing. So thank you so much for saying this here, because that's what it is. I met people from nonprofit organizations who said: We must constantly ask for more and more money, although the people we care about will not change their health. Everyone knows that, but they're still sending us out when we say he's not gonna change the condition, give us the money so we can move on. That's one part. The second part of the State Renovation - I have 20 seconds. Yes, and I think we're all getting those texts. [[Not us.]] You don't, so I do, just like e-mails. And we all get them. As far as the contract register is concerned, yes, I came here to fight corruption, to try to make things transparent and not to agree with everything. I have a problem with something. -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u29	Mr. Ambassador, the time has passed for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u30	- Yes, the last sentence. However, it is my consciousness and conscience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u31	Thank you. I'm asking who else to debate. I ask the Prime Minister if he wants to comment in the debate. It's not like that. There is therefore no choice but to vote on the motion for a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies disagrees with Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka's response to Mr Vojtěch Filip's interpelation. That would be decided in the vote number 489. I'm gonna go on and try to get more co-workers. The number of entries is constant. Then I'll wait. And we will decide in the vote number 489, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour of the proposed resolution. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 489 of the present 77 for 31, against 17. The motion was not accepted. So this interpelation is over. The second written interview, which was rejected by Mr Karel Fiedler, is that of the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who responded to the national foreign language training plan. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1085. I am opening the debate and it is addressed by my colleague Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u32	Yes, of course I am reporting to the debate as the Member who submitted this interview. Otherwise, I would like to begin by congratulating Vice-President Filip, indeed, on the nutritious interpellation he has caused here. We haven't noticed such an interesting course in a long time. And yet, in general, I would like to talk about the topic of interpellation. I don't know, colleagues, if you've been listening to the opening of the meeting today, it's Thursday, the interpretation day - ten ministers won't be at afternoon interviews. What's the point of interpelling? Why? The Prime Minister won't be here. From a government with 17 members, 10 ministers, if he listened well, he won't be at afternoon interviews! And I think that the House's grémium should finally consider the effectiveness of Thursdays in the Chamber of Deputies, because there is a third of us in writing, luckily there is a quorum, I am not surprised by some colleagues that they do not come here when they see the level of answers or today the silence of the Prime Minister. And this afternoon? There won't be ten ministers, there won't be a prime minister. That'll be a farce. Literally. That's a farce! And it's the government's fault it's gonna be a farce. And now for my interpellation... I also think that no one will even be here this afternoon because there will be desperately few Members in the Chamber if anyone is here. And now for my interpellation. I have repeatedly asked both Minister Valachová and Prime Minister about the concept of language education. I've already put this kind of interpellation on former Minister Mládek. I've always been assured that the concept of language education exists, that everything is okay and, eh, despite all the answers and assurances made by Secretary Valachová that everything is okay, when she was still telling me in the hallway in November, December... Clearly, social democracy colleagues don't care! It's their theme, their sector.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u33	I understand, Mr. Ambassador. I ask for peace of mind, Member of the Chamber of Deputies. If you are discussing a subject other than the topic of interpelling Karel Fiedler to the Prime Minister, please, in the foyer. Thank you. You may proceed, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u34	They're probably thinking that everything's fine again, as we heard last time we interviewed the Prime Minister. It's not even okay here. As I mentioned, the answers of Minister Chládek were that the concept existed. I have learned this in the answers of the past, and now the Prime Minister states in his reply: the design of the material is already ready. I got the material at my disposal. I think 23 pages, of which one side, point three - the instruments of action, page 9, can be seen as a kind of concept proposal. Everything else in this material is a description of the current situation, an analysis of why the language knowledge of our pupils and students is poor. And if I take the one side that the Ministry of Education has been working on for the entire term, there are actually seven points. Let me read you the points: 1. methodological-didactic and language seminars in the context of further education of pedagogical staff; 2. profile of the graduate; 3. promoting the mobility of pupils and teachers; 4. verification of the level of language knowledge and skills; 5. the development of methodological cabinet; 6. systematic adaptation of RVPs and development documents; 7. preparation of legislative measures. Well, that's a crazy concept, pardon me! This material, on which the Ministry of Education has been working for years, is this supposed to be the concept of language education? When I choose from the text: I point out that the results of pupils do not correspond to their practical needs. One of the priorities is setting the profile of a graduate. Such development will best strengthen the foreign residences of teachers. The Prime Minister obviously doesn't care. Nothing surprising. [[Prime Minister B. Sobotka: I'm here listening. Notes from the ČSSD series.]] The remarks of colleagues in social democracy correspond to its level. I'd stop by to see teachers abroad. Among other things, the Prime Minister told me in reply that all the cost of processing the concept was in the order of refreshments and breads. I think it says here somewhere the sum of CZK 7.5,000, which I consider quite a mockery. That really upset me. Stays of foreign teachers. If I have information, two-thirds of the cost of these stays was for transportation, accommodation and food. There is no data on the fact that there is an increase in the language skills of educators. All these costs in the order of about CZK 1.5 billion can be regarded as nothing more than a pleasant travel agency for teachers and teachers. If there have been exceptions, yes, it will be very positive, however, as we have just spoken in the case of non-profit organisations, we have asked for the results of the activity, so I would like to see the results of the stays abroad. [[10.30 hours]] From the people of practice who are moving in this area, I have information that they are almost zero to negligible. My colleague Dobešová doesn't have to agree with me. The only thing I can say about the concept of language education is that the material that has been submitted for discussion in the education committee is that I absolutely cannot regard it as some concept of language education. It is just some text that has been drawn up to write a concept in order to fulfil some point of what it has committed to, but no tangible consequences or hints of how there should be a significant improvement in language skills, because the fact that we have a subsidy for foreign languages higher than in the surrounding countries and the knowledge of pupils and students is lower than in the surrounding countries is a sad fact - obviously, my colleague Dobešová agrees with me here - and this clearly shows that the condition is not good. I will then propose a resolution, of course not with the Prime Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u35	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Mr Ivana Dobešová and Mr Herbert Pavera are now enrolled in the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u36	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to my colleague Mr Fiedler's speech. We had material The concept of language education between 2017 and 2022 14 days ago in my subcommittee on secondary and higher vocational education, which he met at the same time as the subcommittee on basic and maternity education. I can say for myself that I think that the energy currently given by teachers in language education is not the quality of education. I totally agree with Mr. Fiedler on that. This was also noted by the report that we discussed at the round table with experts. I was surprised that more than 90 per cent of students can pass the exam, but the test parameter, which is to have a B1 level, is only 44 per cent of the students' knowledge, although the European framework says 60 per cent. It means that Cermat kind of reduces the demands on students to make students more successful at graduation. That, of course, concerns me. I think that we really have a lot of hours, and I think the directors are also adding a number of hours over their framework education programmes to improve language learning. But there are several moments that play an important role. In the 1990's, we faced the fact that the first language became English, and in primary schools, English teachers who started studying it at the same time were not fully qualified. This also transferred to the knowledge of these students in high school. I'm a linguist, 34 years old teaching language in high school, so I can have an expert opinion on that. And it's really harder to teach students mistakes than to teach them something new. That's ad 1, why the quality isn't like that. Ad 2. There is a very strong lobbying dabing in this country. We have not been able to watch a fairy tale with a very simple English language since we were young, so that children would naturally listen to the language and naturally get used to it. Ad 3. I agree that English teachers should go on internships to English-speaking countries to improve their own English and transfer these experiences to teaching. Ad 4. The important thing is here - although we have learned at the round table that the teacher is at the heart of this concept, I believe that the students are at the heart of the interest and their motivation. Unfortunately, their motivation is not sufficient. That is why I would encourage trips not only by teachers to improve their preparation, but by pupils' trips to find out how important it is to learn the language and how beyond the borders of the Czech state it simply does not make a living with Czech. And we must say that English will gradually become the important communication language for the European Union. What I could not identify with in this concept, what is proposed in it, is that two mandatory foreign languages should be in the future. I'm a linguist and, as I say, I've been teaching languages, Russian and English for 34 years. That's my application. When I became director of "farmers," i.e. vocational schools where two languages were taught, I came to the conclusion that it is better to teach one language and to teach it to children properly than to have two languages and to do nothing wrong. So I have a problem with this concept in the sense of two compulsory languages at vocational schools, because in connection with the mathematics graduation, when the directors will have to increase the number of mathematics lessons from 10 to 16 to compare with the grammar school, and they will have to reduce the training lessons by another ten hours for the second foreign language. [[equalized?]] From this point of view, I have a problem with this concept because, unfortunately, this fundamental change will become a professional grammar school. On the other hand, as far as the material is concerned, I think it gives a certain perspective on where we should go in language education, and I do not see mobility as a thing that we should reject. On the contrary, I see it as very good. And if there's money in the bill for accommodation, food, insurance and transportation, that's really how it must be. What I personally see as a disadvantage in this concept is that it only plans these mobility from European money, so it does not place a system tool in the hands of the Ministry of Education to support exits in the long term, because when a project period ends, this activity will end, and I consider it very important. And of course, teacher education and new teaching methods and tools are essential. I myself experienced classical teaching, and then after the revolution, when we got abroad and saw how the language learned differently, experienceably, I would of course wish our students to experience it. And the quality? It's about the quality of children, the quality of teachers and financial support. If we have all these three moments, we'll all be well equipped with language. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u37	Thank you, Mrs Ivana Dobešová. We have factual points here. First, Mr Herbert Pavera, then colleague Kořenek, Marek Černoch, Michal Kučera and Mrs Fischerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u38	Have a nice and pleasant morning, dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr President. I would just like to inform Mr Fiedler, through the President, about how the trips of teachers, educators, went abroad. If he had asked some schools, he would have known that it was very beneficial because they lived in families where they spoke English when they went abroad, except that they had been teaching in English. They spent 14 days or three weeks there with a very good English class. I'm sure it moved them forward. Similarly, thanks to subsidies from the European Union and the state, children leave abroad, to community schools and community towns, and also improve themselves in a foreign language, especially in English. Unfortunately, even in German-speaking countries, they don't speak German, but they all speak English, which is a shame, because of course Central Europe should also deal with German, but when the future shows how much it will be missed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u39	I thank Mr Herbert Paver. Mr Petr Kořenek's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u40	Thank you. Colleagues basically said everything. I'll just say that there were representatives of the professional associations at the subcommittee debate. The concept will, of course, be further developed and submitted to the committee again for discussion. [[10.40 hours]] And as for language education in general in schools, you know, we started out a little bit in the '90s at the green table, with unqualified teachers, and today I'm very appealing and supportive of trips, teachers' exits. We had templates, I believe that this will continue and I believe that European money in this form is just a start. Of course, we need to set up long-term and systemic support for teacher education, but also for pupils, because unfortunately, the problem of leaving students is always linked to the material conditions of the family and we will not tell ourselves that many families have problems paying a regular excursion, let alone going abroad. So that's one thing. And then I would just like to point out that there are a lot of programs in the Czech Republic, including Erasmus and others that schools can participate in. It just really wants to monitor the efficient use of funds and increase funds in these programmes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u41	Thank you, Mr Petr Kořenka, for keeping time on the point of fact. Another factual point by Mr Marek Černoch. Mr Michal Kučera will prepare for a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u42	Thank you for the floor. I will respond to the words of my colleague Dobešová. Personally - and it's my personal opinion - I consider mandatory math graduation to be nonsense, because math is a field for which one really has cells or it's very hard to learn. And if he doesn't want to do it for a living, he doesn't want to do any expertise that requires math, so it's just a burden for the students. On the other hand, as far as languages are concerned, there really is - and it is also about the attitude of teachers - if the teacher is from the "old school" and he teaches: you will learn words, you will learn phrases, and there is no captivity to life, because the language is about talking and not learning exactly the words and not knowing how to use them or exactly the phrases. It's just that the language is variable, and if the teacher approaches it in this way, then at that point the students are "winning" because they might not know exactly the phrase itself, but they're able to agree and then they're getting better. I agree that it is a pity that most of today's televisions or the vast majority of today's televisions work on the principle of dabbing. If it is in the original language with subtitles, it is possible to learn there. If anyone wants to look at a flattened one, they can. But maybe I personally like movies with subtitles because I like the speech and it makes a person able to learn. Kids go to gymnasts in Hostivice, they have English, they have French, and they work in the system, exactly that it's about the communication, about the reactions, about the sudden discovery -- I don't know that word, so I'm gonna learn it. But the system, which is unfortunately practiced in some schools - you have to learn 500 words or you get a five, is wrong from my point of view. [[President: Mr colleague -]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u43	You signed up for a point of fact. Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Michal Kučera's factual comment, Mrs Fischerová and Mrs Dobešová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u44	Thank you for the floor, too. I would only react briefly to my previous speaker's speech from the ANO movement. I agree more or less with many of what she said, particularly in the dabbing area, and that the original text can help children, in particular, to teach a foreign language, especially English. I mean, right now, we have a chance to change this, and it won't require any difficult legislation or any long discussion. I would just like to mention here the amendment tabled by my fellow Member Mrs Adamová to the House. I presented him yesterday in the discussion of the law on electronic communications and it is, in simple terms, a possibility of dual broadcasting. This means that Czech Television - it is only Czech TV, not of course private - so that Czech Television has the possibility on the very frequencies and dual broadcasts, it means that the viewers, respectively. families could decide whether to watch a given series or film in the original version with subtitles or whether to watch it edited. It is a very simple standard, it is a very simple amendment, which also has support in ministries. I believe you'll support him in this hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u45	I thank Mr Michal Kučer for his time on the point of fact, and Mrs Jana Fischerová will have another point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u46	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear young listeners - and I am glad that you are listening to us today because it concerns you in particular. It's a language lesson, and I've seen your reactions about mathematics and so on. And I want to say that - I therefore agree both with mathematics, but I really take the teaching of foreign languages as a great priority. I myself intersected Minister Valachová more than a year ago, then the Prime Minister as part of the concept of language education. I made a few comments during this debate on the concept that is now being proposed. I mean, the four points, the four priorities, I take that are right, because there aren't many, and I agree. But now to what has already been expressed here in the context of the debate, first Karel Fiedler and then other colleagues of mine, I will say: I see myself as the main objective of this language concept and teaching that it is necessary to change, as you said, my colleague, overall access to language teaching, not to be like 20 years ago, because at that time I also taught one of the languages in high school and I know the possibilities of progress, active, live debates, native speakers. And that's the basis where the student has to get love to do it and have it as a game, because we all speak English now, most of the youth, thanks to IT and so on, but there are other important languages that have priorities all over the world, and mostly everyone in their adult life meets it in any field. Well, I'll just poke to make it, it's four points. Firstly, the concept of funding is needed so that it is not just European money. It is unclear what the binding nature of the concept will be and especially how it will be communicated with the public. And the last thing I said at the beginning, change the overall approach to language learning in schools of all degrees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u47	Thank you. Don't bother me with this time, if you'll just sign up for a normal debate, not actual remarks. Mrs. Dobešová, then Mrs. Benešík. Please, Madame, you have the floor this time on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u48	Yes, thank you. I'd just like to respond to my math degree, even if it's not the subject of this interpelation. You know, I don't want to overdo it, but what has been approved as a government regulation and orders graduations in 2021 and 2022 with a mandatory part, in the state part of the math is the Czech language, foreign language and mathematics for almost all fields, so when I overdo it, it seems to me that in the early 21st century the result of education after 13 years of study will teach children to read, write and count and that will be the only output at graduation. I believe that these values should be taught by children at primary school and that high school should already develop and build on these values or on these knowledge. As far as math is concerned, high schools, especially secondary vocational schools, will have to reduce their training so that their children will somehow have the same opportunities to learn mathematics as students at grammar schools and lycees, so the professional part of the matter will be reduced. And that's going to be the second part about languages. I understand that the European Union has a presumption and says that the people of the European Union should speak two foreign languages and one native language, but I am returning again to the concept that is on the table. I wish that wisdom would prevail so that the second foreign language in vocational schools would not be compulsory, but it was only optional or optional, because we have to realise that vocational schools teach students and professional foreign languages today. I consider this to be very important, because if those students in the future want to communicate in their profession, without professional English or professional German, they simply cannot do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u49	Thank you. The time has passed for a factual remark. Before Mr Benešík takes the floor, I state two apologies received to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Michaela Marksová apologizes to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 9am to 12pm. I beg you, my colleague Benešík, in due course in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u50	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I am very pleased that this discussion is taking place here. I think that in the 27 years that Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic have opened up, we've kind of overslept that we have a lot to catch up on. And the knowledge of foreign languages, let's say that the lingua franca today is English, is the key to our competitiveness. We just can't do without it. We see it everywhere. Firms are looking for experts who know their expertise, but they are also equipped with language. I am glad to hear that we agree that language education - although the key, of course, is quality education in schools - is not the only one. That* language education must be taken more widely and that discussion about the dabbing, about the possibility of at least double clues, the possibility of switching on public television, but perhaps also on commercial television, the original text with subtitles, is, in my opinion, a very important addition. And I am glad that we agree on this, and I think it is a matter that is not ideological at all, and whatever the House is going to be here after the next election, whatever the government is, I believe that it will take on this issue as it should and that in the next period we will improve language equipment not only for our children, but for the entire population at all, so that we can be truly competitive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u51	Thank you, Mr Benešík. Another apology has yet to be made to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and this is Mr František Petrtýl for work reasons all day today. This has exhausted the debate on this issue. A colleague, Karel Fiedler, is reporting for the final motion for a resolution. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u52	You ended the debate very quickly, and I would still speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u53	No, I didn't end the debate. I just said no one's checking in.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u54	Thank you. I would like to make a brief comment on this. I guess you all know I'm not from the school environment. I'm a engineer, I'm a technician. Changing the quality of language education - what are the evaluation criteria? For me personally, it will be when the association of industry, employers, say - yes, school graduates get along with better language skills. This will be a sign for me personally that there has been an improvement. And I personally see this very far at this point. The response from the Association of Industry, from industrial business managers and other companies is still the same. The language amenities of our students are insufficient and, moreover, it was also said by my colleague Benešová - Sorry Dobešová, Ivana - that they are placed lower demands on those students than they should be. [[Mrs Dobešová objects to the misrepresentation of her name.]] And that's the reason. And he talked about it, I think, even Ondra Benešík, that even professional language equipment is a chapter for itself, which he basically doesn't get at all. I cannot agree, therefore, that the situation is improving. She's at least the same. I don't mean to say that level is falling, but let's just stick to the fact that the situation isn't good, it's not getting any better. In my opinion, as I have already said, tangible improvement will be at the moment that employers begin to express themselves in this way. That school graduates are better prepared and equipped. Given what has been said here, as I have announced, I propose a resolution on everything that has been said in the debate - the Chamber of Deputies disagrees with the Prime Minister's reply to the written question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u55	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone's joining the debate. It's not like that. So I am ending the debate and we will vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Karel Fiedler. And we will decide in the vote 490. I'm going to sign you all out because I sent those who weren't quiet away because there was no decent environment for the interpeller and for those who were involved in the discussion - so they could return in time. Please log in with your ID cards, and as soon as the number of entries is settled, we will vote. [[There's a sound gong that invites the MPs back to the ballroom. Members meet slowly.]] So far, I don't have the necessary number of colleagues and colleagues to vote on. At least ten or eleven Members, respectively. I'm gonna reengage. [[Sounds like a sound gong.]] I'm gonna ask the president of the MPs to... [[The President is waiting for a sufficient number of Members to meet for the vote.]] So my waiting is obviously futile... In that case, I have no choice but to remain without a vote because we do not have a sufficient number of entries. [[Here comes the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman.]] Even the Minister of Culture has arrived... Five more... I have no choice but to temporarily interrupt this matter, because the House is not in a position of quorum at the moment. So the motion for a vote to us... Okay, 11 o'clock is coming up. I shall therefore adjourn the House of Deputies until 11 o'clock without a resolution on this matter and continue with the 11 o'clock agenda of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u56	Good morning, honourable Members. Calm down, please! I would remind you that we have already firmly placed points at today's meeting. First, point 290, 291 of the House's press 6209 and 6210, these are the annual financial reports of the political parties and their additions. Furthermore, point 48, this is the House press 1030, the insolvency law at first reading. Under the Rules of Procedure, we can now discuss a possible change in our agenda from 11:00 p.m. The President of the TOP 09 Club Michal Kučera entered the debate on the amendment of the programme. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. And please, calm down! Thank you, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u57	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, allow me to propose a fixed classification of programme point 174, press number 1019, the amendment to the Act on Liability Insurance for Damage caused by the operation of motor vehicles. I would like to include this proposal for a firm inclusion today following the already firmly placed points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u58	Okay, thank you. So as the fourth fixed point for this afternoon's meeting. And we'll decide that in the 490 vote, which... And, please, another proposal, Mrs Jana Černochová, then Mr Marek Benda. So, please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u59	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have a proposal and a request to place one point on tomorrow's agenda after the third reading. I guess there's one third reading. This amendment to Act No. 222/1990 Coll., on the Security of Defence of the Czech Republic. I'm really sorry right now, but I'm gonna try to find a press number or I'd like to ask Marek Benda if he can find a print number in the meantime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u60	Point 181?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u61	Item 181, thank you. It's Law 222. I would also like to include after this point in the event that it will be included, and I do not know if the Minister of Foreign Affairs Zaorálek apologized for today or if Minister Chvojka apologized. Mr. Zaorálek apologized. So I can't use my right to interpel the Minister. I don't know if you, colleagues and colleagues have noticed this, but last week, a rather important thing happened in the UN, when the UN Women's Commission, which is a major global intergovernmental body intended solely to promote gender equality and strengthen women's status. This Commission falls under the Economic and Social Council established by Council Resolution 11 of 21 June 1946. This Commission is crucial in promoting women's rights, documenting the reality of women's lives worldwide, and shaping global standards in the field of gender equality and strengthening women's status. And please, what happened last week is not a joke, it is not even an April - Saudi Arabia has become one of the countries that will sit on this committee! Yes, colleagues and colleagues, you hear well. Saudi Arabia, a country where Sharia law allows women to whip, murders of honor against women by their fathers and brothers are also normal. One of the major politicians said it was about the same as when the arsonist was elected chief of firefighters. I fully identify with this parable. By the way, every woman in Saudi Arabia must have a female overseer who makes all the important decisions on her behalf, controlling the life of a woman de facto from birth to death. It's completely illusionary that women in Saudi Arabia are driving a car. So the fact that this country, Saudi Arabia, has really become a member of the Women's Equality Commission is a complete mockery of civilized society. And the mockery of civilized society following what I said here six months ago - I'll wait for my colleague Blažek to have some fun.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u62	I'm just pointing out that you have five minutes, so that's why I'm not interrupting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u63	I don't have five minutes, I have priority rights, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u64	That's not how you volunteered, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u65	I volunteered with priority rights!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u66	I won't question it. Your club chairman isn't here, but you signed up to change the agenda for the meeting. Not with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u67	I've applied to change the program, I've read it, and I'm still loading it, but there's no Mr. Zaorálek here that I can interpel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u68	He's not, and he apologized. My colleague, Minister Zaorálek has duly apologized, which was read by the President of the meeting by Vice-President Gazdík at 9 a.m. So I can repeat this once more before the 11:30, but I would point out that it is your business to monitor the negotiations, including apologies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u69	Yes, I do not doubt that Minister Zaorálek has apologized, but you do not question my right to want to include this serious issue in the debate programme. Or if you don't care, Mr Vice-President, that Saudi Arabia will deal with women's rights in this committee - a country that really has nothing to do with democracy - that is your choice. I don't care. I think it is none of our colleagues in the Chamber of Deputies. And I would, I would very much like to know the position of the Czech Republic on this matter. Because you know that on this committee...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u70	I would ask the sněmovna for peace! My colleague Černochová is presenting a proposal for a change in the programme of quite a fundamental nature, and I cannot comment on this in any other way than giving her sufficient space to see the seriousness of the proposal she is saying. Otherwise, of course, I would have responded, if such a point were to be included, to my position on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u71	Thank you. So I would very much like to know the opinion and attitude of the Czech Republic, because the Czech Republic also voted. Unfortunately, the vote is classified. So we have no chance of knowing what member country, what attitude it has taken. But I think that, no matter how the representatives of the Czech Republic voted in a secret election, the Czech Republic's representatives and, in particular, the Minister for Human Rights and the Minister for Foreign Affairs should clearly communicate the position of the Czech Republic to Members of the legislature. I see the Prime Minister here, too, and the Prime Minister can do this for the Czech Republic's government and assure us all that, in terms of rights, human rights, women's rights, the Czech Republic is clearly distancing itself from being part of this commission being Saudi Arabia. Orthodox Islamic monarchy! Orthodox Islamic monarchy will teach women's rights. [[11.10 hours]] So please don't underestimate this. It happened in the media, but it was just somewhere not really. I therefore ask that we place this point in the event that Minister Chvojka and Minister Zaorálk are here tomorrow, after a fixed point, no. 222 on defence, so that the gentlemen have sufficient time to prepare for it. I'm not suggesting it today, even if we could talk about it today, but I really, really ask all my colleagues to take this subject as seriously as I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u72	Thank you. Now, Mr Jeroným Tejc on the draft agenda. [[There's noise in the room.]] Then Mrs Nina Nováková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to propose a solid inclusion of a point, namely printing 920 - a change to the Civil Code, for tomorrow, Friday after the fixed points. It is a relatively economical, rather technical amendment to the Civil Code, which is intended to help both owners of flats in the community of owners of units and cooperatives. This amendment has been consulted several times with the Association of Housing Cooperatives. It is of great interest that this standard should be passed by the end of the term of office. If we do not put this point in place, perhaps the next House meeting in 14 days, this possibility will be threatened. Therefore, I ask you to try what did not work out yesterday, i.e. to discuss this point, because it has not been discussed, to do now. But, of course, it's your decision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u74	Thank you, Mr Tejc. Now, Mrs Nina Nováková, with a proposal to amend the agenda. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u75	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I am once again reporting for the agenda of the meeting, or for the discussion of the school law, where I seek to discuss an amendment which aims to include, first, the fulfilment of civil and personal obligations in our schools, but, more importantly, the transfer of European cultural identity. A moment ago, Mrs Černochová was speaking. This is, say, a negative definition of something that is really negative. I dare, and not only I, have signed up to the amendment by MEPs from almost all the MPs and three ministers of this government, to propose a positive solution, and it is indeed to pass on the identity that is our European cultural identity. I ask for the inclusion of today as the third point, i.e. after paragraphs 290 and 291, paragraph 143, which is the Parliamentary Press 858. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u76	Okay, thank you. Who else? Another colleague, Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u77	Dear Vice-President, you've crossed me a little bit, even though you told me you'd give me your word. There's nothing going on. I'm not mad at all. I just wanted to slightly modify my colleague Kučera's proposal, or to make one more proposal if his proposal had not been accepted, namely that point 174, House Press 1019, the proposal by Members of Votava, Klaška, Benešík and others on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle, was listed today as point 3, which means that after two reports on the financing of political parties before insolvency, because I fear that this discussion may be extended relatively, and it is a shame that we have not been able to discuss the overall problem-free liability insurance for damage caused by the motor vehicle that is cross-border because of the fact that there will be too much talk about insolvency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u78	Thank you. We have an alternative to paragraph 174. Anyone else before the debate to change? prosit, Mr. Chairman of the Social Democracy Club. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u79	Thank you. Good morning, colleagues, on behalf of two social democracy clubs and YES 2011 I veto the proposal to include a new point by Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u80	Okay. We won't be able to vote on that. A colleague of mine, Černochová, gave two points. Now I'm asking. To both of them, that means both defense and the new one? So to one point, to Saudi Arabia, because it was two of the proposals that Mrs Černochová said. So I know what's voteable and what's not. Okay. This will be unvoting and we will proceed. The first proposal to amend the agenda was the proposal by Mr Michal Kučera, who has an alternative according to the proposal of Mr Marek Benda. Since this is a fixed classification of paragraph 174, press 1019, we will first vote on whether it should be ranked as a third point, that is, before insolvency. And if it doesn't pass, then according to my colleague Kučera's basic proposal, that is, after insolvency. This is the first vote to be taken in the 490 series vote. I'll check you out. I'll ask for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I'm gonna go on, 'cause I put the noisy in the lobby. Once the number of applicants has settled, we will vote. Paragraph 174, press 1019, as the third point of today's negotiations. I've started the 490 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 490 of 92 present for 44, against 41 Member. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore vote on an alternative that this will not be the third but the fourth point, because we will respect that insolvency was the third. I've started the 491 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 491 of the 94 Members present for 89, against 1. The motion was accepted. We therefore have a firm fourth point in our negotiations. Mrs Jana Černochová's proposal was further that, as the fifth point at tomorrow's meeting, because the fixed points are the third reading, which are a total of four, one is firmly classified, the others are under the Act on Rules of Procedure, was the amendment of the Act on Defence, it is paragraph 181, the amendment of Act No. 222/1990. I've started the 492 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 492 of the 94 present for 29, against 36. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal by colleague Černochová was unvoting for the veto of two parliamentary clubs. We now have Mr Jeroným's proposal. The paper to put on Friday after the fixed points, that is, after the third readings, we... [[Mr. Faltynek's objection.]] Sorry, after the third readings and the fixed first readings, they included point 156, print 920, amendment to the Civil Code. We will decide this in the 493 series vote, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of my colleague Tejc's proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 493 of the present 96 for 84, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we have a firm amendment to the Civil Code. [[11.20 hours]] The last proposal is Mrs Nina Nováková's proposal that we make a third point for today, Thursday, i.e. As before insolvency, they included paragraph 143, press 858, according to the reasoning put forward by Mrs Nováková. We will decide in the vote number 494, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 494. Out of 97 for 33, versus 47. The motion was not accepted. We therefore have an approved agenda for the meeting and can therefore act under this agenda. I will also read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and today Mr Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor apologizes between 11:00 and 13:00. I would like to remind you that I will repeat again, because there will be an interpelation vote, that for this afternoon he is excused for working reasons Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who will attend the meeting by 14.00 hours, for the whole day are excused by Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek for work reasons, Richard Brabec for work reasons, Milan Chovanec for work reasons, Jan Chvojka for work reasons, Marian Jurečka for foreign travel reasons, Miloslav Ludvík for working reasons for the whole day, Minister Marksová, who apologized, will come to the afternoon meeting and will therefore be at the interview. Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický and Daniel Ťok would leave earlier, i.e. By 5:30 p.m., he would have been present. Kateřina Valachová excused for business reasons all day and Lubomír Zaorálek is on a foreign trip. We will therefore continue the negotiations now. Deputy Chairman of ODS Club Jana Černochová reporting. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u81	Vice-President. Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I am very unpleasantly surprised at the way in which representatives of the ČSSD and YES took up my proposal to discuss the issue of membership of Saudi Arabia in the United Nations Commission. It is the social democracy that has compulsory female quotas in its statutes. Their Minister for Legislation Dienstbier is trying to promote women's quotas in all sectors of our lives, and he would like it slowly if we were to be represented here in the Chamber of Deputies by 50-50. And it is precisely social democracy that does not want to discuss the issue of human rights, women's rights. That's really absurd. And I'm sorry that Míša Marksová doesn't sit here, who I may disagree with in a lot of ways, but in terms of human rights, women's rights, I think I can agree with her in a lot of ways. So I'm wondering how the members of this government coalition are going to stand up to this delicate problem, how she would have put up with it. You know, it's really not funny. It's a demonstration of absolute irony. The fact that the United Nations structures will increase to the Commission on the status of women, which, as I have already said, will increase from 2018 to, I suspect, 2020 or 2022, depending on whether the mandate will be two or four years old, Saudi Arabia, is wrong. We all feel that way. And yet the Czech Republic has a chance to oppose this clearly. And if this government isn't the government of cowards, then clearly the Prime Minister here, who apologized for interpelling, will tell us on the microphone what position the representative of the Czech Republic took on this in the secret election. If he cannot tell us for any reason, because he does not know, then whether someone from the Czech Government, ideally Prime Minister or ideally Prime Minister together with the Minister of Foreign Affairs, together with the Minister of Human Rights, will reject Saudi Arabia's participation in this commission. Do the UN really still look like a human rights organization to you? You know, it's not just about this Human Rights Council, specifically for women's rights, but it's about human rights in general. Remember the challenge of non-profit organizations, to which we can also have different attitudes, but in this respect they are absolutely right when Amnesty International challenged the UN: Stop Saudi Arabia's membership of the Human Rights Council. Amnesty International and Human Rights watch point to human rights issues that are not compatible with board membership. Saudi Arabia commits, quote, gross and systematic violations of human rights at home and abroad, and effectively uses its position in the Human Rights Council to block possible charges of war crimes. Amnesty International and Human Rights watch therefore appeal to the UN General Assembly to suspend the country's membership of the world's highest human rights authority. The organizations are asking that Saudi Arabia be deprived of membership of the Human Rights Council until the illegal attacks of the military coalition leading it were in Yemen, and before their credible and unbiased investigation takes place. Again, I quote: the credibility of the Human Rights Council is at stake. Since Saudi Arabia entered it, human rights violations have continued to escalate in this country. The coalition illegally prevented and injured thousands of civilians during the Yemeni conflict. It would be a great hypocrisy to allow this country to remain an active member of the Council, especially in a situation where it uses its position to protect itself from taking responsibility for committing potential war crimes. This could damage this top human-law institution's reputation. End of quote. Richard Bennett, director of Amnesty Internationl at the UN Office, added: Convincing evidence of the commission of war crimes by the coalition led by Saudi Arabia in Yemen should be examined by the Human Rights Council. Instead, Saudi Arabia cynically uses its membership of the Council to thwart the provisions of international investigations. He's gaining support for his opponent to achieve a toothless investigation at the level of the Yemeni state. For nine months now, we have failed to begin a credible investigation into potential war crimes and other serious crimes. As a member of the Human Rights Council, compliance with the strictest standards of respect for human rights is required for Saudi Arabia. In fact, however, he leads a military coalition that is engaged in illegal and fatal attacks on Yemen's market, hospitals, schools. Coalition has also repeatedly used internationally banned weapons in civilian areas. He executes hundreds of executions on domestic soil, places minors on death row, after unfair courts, and severely suppresses opposition and civil-law activists. End of quote. Saudi-Arab cruel acts against all forms of domestic dissent continue, and nothing changes the current membership of the board. An exception is not the conduct of unfair courts in a special anti-terrorist court and long-term prison sentences for dissidents and human rights defenders. [[11.30 hours]] More than 350 people have been executed since Saudi Arabia was elected to the Council. In 2015, even more executions were recorded than ever since 1995. Saudi Arabia, says Richard Bennett, must release all prisoners of conscience immediately and unconditionally and must put an end to its shameful practice of death sentences. In recent weeks, Saudi Arabia has withdrawn from taking responsibility by pushing the UN to remove the military coalition in Yemen from the list of states and armed groups that violate child rights in armed conflicts. Saudi Arabia has threatened to deflect from the UN by ending its financial support, including support for humanitarian projects and by devolvement of its close allies. Sadly, the key allies of Saudi Arabia, including the US and Great Britain, doubted not to stop the international arms trade used in Yemen despite the clear danger of committing war crimes. Again, I quote Mr. Richard Bennett. Particularly shocking is the deafening silence of the international community, which once again succumbed to Saudi Arabia's pressure and preferred trade, arms and trade agreements to human rights despite evidence of gross and systematic violence and total impunity. Amnesty International and Human Right Watch are asking UN Member States to exclude Saudi Arabia from the Council. At the same time, they are asking for an independent and impartial international investigation into the case of violations of international humanitarian law in Yemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have now read to you what nonprofit organizations wish for, which your ministers, ministers of this government support financially and verbally. And these international organisations clearly say that Saudi Arabia does not belong to any advice that deals with human rights at all. Indeed, this country is not a democratic country. It is a country where Sharia law is applied and human rights are suppressed. You know what may be a paradox? Somewhere I read that, in fact, Saudi Arabia was encouraged not to pass another country, and that the only person who publicly opposed it was China and Iran. Yes, you can hear me well. Countries that may not be the absolute majority of the House, but a relatively significant part of the House believes that human rights are also on the scorpion, so these countries have clearly opposed Saudi Arabia's female rights in the United Nations Council, where equality between men and women is not recognised, efforts for women's rights are constantly being suppressed, draconian medieval punishments such as flogging and sword executions are being applied. Yes, I'm actually reading from the media output that China was the biggest critic of Saudi Arabia's election. Within the Commission, consisting of representatives of 45 states, Saudi Arabia will thus have an impact on the promotion of women's rights, documenting women's lives around the world - oh, my God, protect us from some saúdský Arab documenting our lives in the Czech Republic - and creating global standards for gender equality and strengthening the position of women, as is the official objective of the entire institution defined on the UN website. In Saudi Arabia, women are not legally entitled to the same rights as men. Like I said, they can't drive a car. Moreover, until 2015, these women couldn't even vote or have some identification card, or God forbid they couldn't run directly. As far as the position of the Czech Republic towards the UN is concerned, you know, I really feel that this organization, which, at the beginning of its constitution, certainly had a number of take-off ideas, ideas that I can relate to. But where it has moved over the years, when this organization is not objectively able to distinguish what is evil and what is good... After all, we experienced this in the case of Israel, when they questioned the history of the Žid, questioned the historical places in Jerusalem, attacked the Jewish state. So this is just a continuation of the trend of going hand-to-hand with countries that, in my opinion, belong to the spectrum of evil, not good, and to those to go hand-to-hand, and countries that have long been our allies, such as Israel, to weaken these countries. I don't know about you, but I don't want to accept it! And that's why I tried to ask today, the Prime Minister sat here, it wouldn't take us too much time, but to know the Prime Minister's opinion, to hear here the assurance that the Czech Republic doesn't intend to stand on the side of a country like Saudi Arabia in the future, and that we will also learn here how the Czech Republic intends to reverse the membership of Saudi Arabia in this Women's Rights Council, or whether... I'm the last person who would like to organize in some female movement, but do you really think it's normal that even women's rights organisations don't define themselves against it here? Did something really happen here that I consider to be very unprecedented, and we're all silent about it? So I would really like to ask that, for example, at the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which will be in May, we get from the Prime Minister, from the Foreign Minister, from the Human Rights Minister Chvojka, so that we can get some clear assurance, or may not even be at the meeting, so that he can send it to us as Members, here I would ask that the Vice-President of the House or colleagues from the government coalition, respectively. The torso of colleagues from the government desks informed the government whether the representatives of the legislature could not get information on what kind of tech and mechtle our government is planning with Saudi Arabia and, where appropriate, why our representative in this UN Council voted as he voted, or how and what the Czech Republic will do to reverse the fact that I believe 54 votes have gone through. [[ČSSD benches and the ANO movement are almost empty]] Thank you for your attention. I did not wish to burden you with this issue in such detail, but the fact that the representatives of YES and ČSSD have vetoed the inclusion of this point seems a real shame to me, because I think that these are things that concern human rights, and we should all be interested in, perhaps more than some of the bills you have on the board, at least if I can speak for the Club of Civil Democrats, we are really interested in human rights, unlike the ČSSD and YES.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u82	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. Sorry, excuses. Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický apologizes from 14:30 to 16:00 for work reasons and Minister Daniel Herman apologizes from 12:00 to the end of the day for ministerial reasons. And we'll move on to point 290, which is the Annual Financial Reports Review Report... I'm sorry, I'm sorry. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Černoch. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u83	Thank you. I'll be shorter than Mrs. Černochová. There's another way to do it, for example. by inhalation. But the Prime Minister won't be here to interpel, even the Minister, who's been here most of the time and the interpelling, will not be here, which has personally disappointed me, Minister Herman. He's almost always here, just like Minister Pelikán. If they're not here to interpel, I don't know if there's any point in interpelling. It could also be done by questioning and questioning at the interpelations. Unfortunately, I can't, so my colleague tried to suggest information very short, I think simple, and could have moved on. Chairman Sklenák is having a fun time here all the time, he comes up on the microphone and says, "We're vetoing." Without explaining why. Personally, I think that this is quite an important topic, or it may be an important topic from the perspective of some future, because really a country like Saudi Arabia in the context of women's rights is something similar, as if someone had suggested North Korea to the Committee on Democracy. I do not know how the Czech Republic will perform there, it is a secret vote, who, how it voted for, but we could at least have had information. Unfortunately, we don't have the information. And if someone is working in various committees within equality, the Council of Europe, etc., there is always talk of women's rights. And then there's a commission that's under OSD that should protect human rights, and suddenly there's a member country that really has Sharia's right as a sovereign right. And I don't want to be involved in their system and politics, it's their business. But from our point of view, in some European values, it is simply an incompatible law, because this right has certain points that conflict with our values considerably. So we are joining the proposal by Mrs Černochová to get at least some information, whether it is in the form of information from the Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Human Rights, or by calling a small round table or at least an email. Personally, I don't think we're gonna get anything. But we're joining, and we're calling for something like this to happen at the next meeting. And I really do not understand why such proposals are vetoed. I think it's important stuff. There's a lot of far less serious things going on here, and they don't wrap around. This was vetoed. President Sklenák probably considers this topic to be stupid and does not want to have any information on this subject. It's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u84	Mr. Chairman, don't be a defétist. Maybe that's what's gonna happen. Thank you to Prime Minister Černoch. Another duly signed up is the Chairman of the TOP 09 Parliamentary Club Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u85	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. This is exactly the situation in which the House was brought to the government coalition of the ANO movement, the CSSD and the People's Party. Because if ministers actually went to interpelations, if the Prime Minister went to the interview, this point could be discussed in peace at the interpellation. We heard the apologies today, and that list of ministers missing from the interviews was one separate point, which was read for about ten minutes. Now there's another one. I, of course, blame the government coalition, which has its President of the House, for failing to negotiate order. I blame the government coalition for the fact that their ministers do not go to interpelations and are unwilling to hear these very comments, the totally legitimate comments made by the Vice-President of the ODS. That's exactly the kind of interpellation that might have sounded at the Foreign Secretary, who, as far as I know, may have been at the interpellation once or twice, and who might have sounded at Prime Minister Sobotka. Unfortunately, we have no choice but to deal with this by including extraordinary points here to make this perfectly legitimate and legitimate voice sound. Unfortunately, if we propose an extraordinary point, because we are really pushed by the absence of ministers on interpelations, this point is once again vetoed by government parties. And this attempt to silence the opposition is really outrageous, and I can say, if I'm watching it, perhaps it hasn't been the same since 1989. There we grew up with parliamentary democracy under the leadership of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-001-288.u86	Thank you. And I apologise to Mr Gabal, because we are among the points and only those who have the right of priority can speak. If there's no one else reporting, we'll go to the point.
