ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u1	23. Proposal by Members of Robin Böhnisch, Jiří Koubek, Jiří Junek, Jiří Dolejš, Martin Komárek, Roman Sklenák, Miroslav Kalousek and others for the Act amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., for the Protection of Animals against Abuse, as amended / House print 742/ - second reading And I ask that the motion put forward by Mr Robin Böhnisch as the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. First of all, I would like to thank the Chamber of Deputies very much for putting this proposal firmly on its agenda today. This second thank-you belongs to both committees, namely the Committee on the Environment and then, above all, to the Committee on Agriculture, which discussed this standard very thoroughly, including the seminar which he prepared for both Members and the public. Since this is a second reading, I will not delay any further, only then will I enter into a detailed debate with my amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u3	Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the agricultural committee as a committee of guarantee. Furthermore, the press was assigned to the Committee on the Environment as a committee for the next. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 742/2 to 5. I ask that the rapporteur of the agricultural committee, Mr Josef Kott, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Agricultural Committee discussed this bill at its 40th meeting on 22 March. The Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after the opening words, recommends, after the Josef Kott, the representative of the petitioners Roman Böhnisch and Jiří Koubek, Jiří Junek, Jiří Dolejš, Martin Komárek, Roman Sklenák, Miroslav Kalousek and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 246/1992 Coll., to protect animals against abuse, as amended, the House of Press 742, to approve the amendments adopted. First, the following point 1 is inserted before the amendment point 1: "First, Section 3 at the end of the period is replaced by a comma and the following point ab is added: " (b) certified farm breeding of fur animals of the farm which has been certified as a WelFur programme. Each breeder keeping animals in certified welfurový breeding of fur animals shall submit a valid certificate of the WellFur programme at each inspection of the State Veterinary Administration.' Second, the new amendment point 1 reads: "In Section 5, the following paragraph 7 is added after paragraph 6: "The breeding and killing of animals shall be prohibited solely or primarily for the purpose of obtaining fur in non-certified farmed fur animals'. Thirdly, the new amendment point 3 is: "thirdly, in paragraph 27 the first period is replaced by "or' at the end of the first paragraph and the following point (s) is added: contrary to Section 5 (1): 7 breeds or kills an animal exclusively or primarily for the purpose of obtaining fur. This does not apply when it comes to certified farm breeding of fur animals.' Fourthly, the new amendment point 6 reads: "6. In Section 27 and at the end of the first paragraph, the word "or' is replaced by the word "or' and the following point (p) is added: "in breach of Section 5 (1) '. 7 breeds or kills an animal exclusively or primarily for the purpose of obtaining fur. This does not apply when it comes to certified farm breeding of fur animals.' Fifthly, point 1 of Article II is new: "First, where the breeder of fur animals operates exclusively or primarily for the purpose of obtaining fur on the business day of application of this Act, and if that breeding is not operated in certified farming of fur animals or if the certificate of the WelFur programme is lost, the breeder is obliged to obtain a certificate of the WelFur programme for certified farming of fur animals under this Act no later than 2 years after the date of application of this Act. Otherwise, the breeder is obliged to terminate this business within the aforementioned period.' Sixthly, Article III shall read: "This law shall take effect on the first day of the calendar month following its publication.' Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic. Thirdly, it empowers the rapporteur to present this to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic, which I have done. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u5	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Commissioner Marie Pěnčíková, to take the floor and inform us of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I'll introduce you to 17. (?) Resolution of the Committee on the Environment of the 41st meeting of 22 March this year. Following the justification of the member of the draft group of Members of Robin Böhnisch on the report by Mrs Pěnčíková and following the debate, the Committee on the Environment recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted, which you have in paragraph one of this resolution, and that is available to you as House Press 742/5. I'm not gonna read them all here. Secondly, it instructs the President of the Committee to forward this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on the results of this draft law at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. Fourthly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur, i.e. me, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u7	Thank you, too. I am now opening a general debate in which I register two applications. Mr Pavera apologizes, so the next person to speak in the general debate is Mr Jiří Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, don't worry, I will no longer speak as one of the proponents of this proposal as I did at first reading. Just please hear at least a brief description of the structure of what my conviction is based on regarding the proposed ban on fur animals primarily for furs in our country. It is known that furs serving as fashion ornaments or accessories, whether in the form of collars, hems or entire coats, reflect the daily life of up to 20,000 animals kept in our country. [[12.50 hours]] And that must certainly be changed. I do not recognise pseudoarguments of the type that, as long as there is demand, there must be supply. And if we don't adapt to it, the market will be equally saturated with so-called black breeding furs, or cheap fur substitutes from China, etc. Nowadays, killing animals because of human fashion is morally unjustified and, fortunately, even the most important fashion designers who are pushing this demand deeper and deeper into the bottom: Armani, Calvin Klein, Hugo Boss and others. The animals in our country are mass-killed, and they suffer through gas or electric current. In this respect, I also remembered, among other things, two interventions on the Minister of Agriculture, Jurečka, who is now absent, regarding the ban on halal slaughters. Although he very convincingly announced negotiations with interested organisations, he promised me several times on the microphone that he would keep me informed of the outcome, but those promises were the last thing I heard from him on the subject two years ago. Most likely, he had religious motives for ritual slaughters ahead of man's uselessly and deeply prolonged death of slaughter animals. But to get back to the bill. The Treaty of Lisbon states that animals are sentient beings and therefore must be regulated. And that is why almost half of the European Union's countries have already banned breeding, and there are already debates in other countries about such bans. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union states in Article 13 that Member States should take full account of animal welfare requirements as susceptible beings and do not restrict them to the possibility of prohibiting fur farms. And this is justified in a pragmatic way that no commercial farming systems have yet been developed to meet the needs of foxes and minks. In the restaurant there are only nine breeds in our country: Dolní Cerekvi, Jiříkovice, Syrovice, Křižanovice, Klopotovice, Bruzovice, Pustějov, Vítějevsi and Velké Ratmírov. Therefore, there will be no disproportionate intervention in the business environment. Losses of cancelled farms can be compensated by decree and the period of activity focused on 2018 is certainly sufficient. Our public mostly wants this standard. According to the December 2015 Center for Public Opinion Research, more than 70 percent of citizens disagree that the current society could do without fur fashion. The support for this proposal has also been expressed by a large part of the professional public, and I can add that to date I am registering further research, which already speaks of 83 percent of people refusing to raise animals primarily for fur purposes. In connection with the bill proposal, I reject, among other things, the pointless politicisation of the whole problem by some writers and media experts of the universe. For some ease, I quote, for example, the February reflex. "The resistance of the left against mink coats can be easily explained in class. Of course, the bourgeois lady in mink fur causes class resentment. I mean, our comrades are good enough for rubber bands, overalls and radios." So it's just to illustrate some mental marches. As you know, the proponents of this proposal are recruited not only from the left side of the political spectrum, but also from a small part of the right. I would also like to mention one amendment proposing a transitional period. This transition period was examined by the Parliamentary Institute, which evaluated this in its work MP 3095. And it follows from this work that the proposed transition period is unique in international comparison, since the transitional period provides for an unlimited exemption for existing entrepreneurs, and this is a very important, unlimited exception for existing entrepreneurs and an exception for the transfer of the holding of the breeder according to the sentence first to another legal or natural person. Secondly, it does not prevent a breeder who uses unlimited time exceptions, and it is also important that the business should be extended at any time in the future, to establish new and further breeding, to increase the number of animals kept, the number of pens, etc. The proposed transitional period differs from the foreign arrangements for the introduction of the ban on the breeding of fur animals, since it does not aim exclusively or primarily to end the breeding and killing of animals for the purpose of the acquisition of fur, or rather to reduce the number of animals thus reared or killed. Ladies and gentlemen, the arguments to support the adoption of this standard can be put up with many and many, at least in my opinion much more relevant and therefore in fact stronger than the counter-arguments of opponents. Therefore, not only in the interests of needlessly suffering animals, it is not in this case a part of the human food chain, but also in the interests of modern humanity of the 21st century, I also ask for your support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I note Mrs Pěnčíková's factual remark - that is not the case. In that case, Mr Kučera will speak properly. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u10	Hello, thank you for your word. I listened with interest to the words of my previous speaker who promised to speak briefly. I was particularly interested in the part about the bourgeois lady with the fur collars. That was a really good one. However, I took the liberty of speaking here for another reason, because here I represent my colleague, Mr Herbert Pavera, who had the amendment prepared, but at the moment he is duly excused. This amendment, which you have in the system under number 6287, concerns the protection of animals in interest and animals intended for interest farming. It is precisely the amendment of paragraph 1 in Section 13 that will allow the issue of a decree aimed at breeding dogs, which does not have legal support in the current wording of the law. And at present, only Decree No.21/2013 Coll., on the establishment of conditions for breeding dogs and cats, which is currently insufficient and requires amendment, is valid. I will then sign up for this amendment in the detailed debate that I am signing up for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u11	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. The rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have put two amendments into the system that I would like to introduce to you. The first amendment concerns the granting of compensation. The proposal adopts an amendment to the Committee on the Environment and only adds one new paragraph 5 to it in Section 29c, which aims to enable the Ministry to take into account the needs of breeders other than the fulfilment of long-term commitments on non-returned investments in the granting of compensatory contributions. In addition to the entitlement allowance to help farmers cope with long-term commitments, breeders can add an additional contribution up to their average annual net profit. The details shall be determined by the Ministry in accordance with paragraph 7 of the Decree. This is the first amendment. The second amendment clearly specifies the refunds that will arise for breeders by ending their breeding. So it's a reason. The proposal is an extended period of four years to end the breeding of fur animals, that is until 31 December 2022, and a clear and administratively undemanding calculation of the compensation allowance for breeders will not be required to issue an implementing administrative regulation. In addition to the different adaptation in the newly inserted § 29c, the proposal agrees in a text with the resolution of the Committee on the Environment, print 742. The extension of the deadline for ending the breeding of fur animals can be justified by reasons constitutionally legal and economic. The ban on the breeding of fur animals is a major intervention in the legitimate expectations of fur animals breeders. [[13.00 hours]] Longer time to adapt to completely new different legislation will at least partially mitigate the intensity of this intervention. From the founding of the Constitutional Court of the PI. ÚS 38/04 of 20. 6. 2006 shows that the legislator must take account of the current legal situation in the course of a change in legislation and make changes sensitively and only to the extent necessary to achieve the regulatory objective. It is necessary to insist on such behaviour by the legislator, as this guarantees the stability of the sphere of free conduct. Laws define the basic structure in which free activities are carried out when the boundaries of legal requirements are uncertain, i.e. If legitimate expectations based on the law are not respected, freedom is uncertain as well. Therefore, the protection of legitimate expectations is an integral part of the rule of law. Taking into account legitimate expectations is an unforgettable dimension of legality. Of course, the order to respect legitimate expectations arising from the existing legislation cannot allow for a ban on the amendment of legislation. It is merely that, when deciding how to make a change, the legislator should take account of these expectations and not ignore the fact that the addressees of the standards of their behaviour have adapted for a longer period of time to the requirements of a different state. The State intervention rate was highlighted by the adoption of an adjustment in Decree No. 208/2004 Sb., on minimum standards for the protection of livestock, which in § 13 introduced minimum standards for the protection of farmed fur animals. The Decree also provided for a transitional period until 31. 12. 2013, in which the technology of all fur animals had to be modified and these changes required a large investment cost of millions of crowns. With reference to the need to respect the principle of proportionality in the event of such significant interference in the legislation and the legitimate expectations of their addressees, it is therefore absolutely necessary to extend the transitional period for the abolition of fur breeds. This will also allow farmers maximum tax write-off of basic funds, i.e. cages or cages. breeding animals. This will at least reduce the additional tax damage that could not be compensated here on the basis of the original proposal. In view of the fact that the House's 742 press proposes a radical change to the current legal situation, it is also necessary to introduce an adequate compensation scheme to mitigate the consequences of this change. The amendment now tabled introduces a compensatory contribution as a one-off financial contribution to the breeders of these animals. The compensation allowance is based on the average auction selling price of mink or fox skins in 2016. This contribution compensates for the calculated loss of profit over a period of 10 years from the end of the business and its amount covers among others. an estimate of the average costs associated with the cessation of farming and takes into account the expected return on investments in breeding establishments. The proposed amendment does not foresee the adoption of implementing legislation, as the amount of the compensatory contribution and the process of granting it will already be fixed in the text of the Act. This will make the level of compensation for each breeder clear in advance, thereby ensuring legal certainty for the addressees. In view of the fact that there are currently nine breeders in the Czech Republic and the number of animals kept by them, the overall impact on the state budget is estimated at a minimum of 50 million. Crowns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see an application. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant or rapporteur whether he wants to take the final floor. I can't see at this point. I therefore initiate a detailed debate. I'm filing two applications for it. First, Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u14	Thank you for your word. I would like to address this in a detailed debate to the amendment, which is like House document No. 6287 inserted into the system, which I duly justified in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u15	Thank you. As the next Mr Kott, Mr Böhnisch will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to sign up for my two amendments, which are set up in the system as House document 6282 and the second 6293.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u17	Thank you. Mr Böhnisch now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for the amendments that I have uploaded into the system in this case under House document 6312. This is an amendment based on the amendment of the Committee on the Environment, but it also offers a variant of cessation of farming in January 2021, as a compromise term. Thank you. The reasons are given directly in the written document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-010-023.u19	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see a request. In that case, I conclude a detailed debate and ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. Since no further proposals have been made, I am ending second reading of this proposal and thank you. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 13 o'clock to the end of the negotiations for work reasons, Minister Stropnickýý apologizes, from 12.30 to 14 o'clock today, for personal reasons Mr Herbert Pavera apologizes, today from 12.45 to 14 o'clock Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský apologizes, from 12.30 to the end of the meeting day Mr Jaroslav Holík apologizes, today from 11.30 to 14 o'clock for working reasons Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes, today from 11.30 to the end of the meeting day Mr Milan Urban apologizes, and today from 11 to 14 o'clock for working reasons Mrs Jitka Chalánková apologises. On the basis of the agreement of the Members' Club Chairs, I propose that we remove further points from the 56th meeting and then end this meeting. I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to vote on this proposal. I'm registering the check-out request. I'll check you all out first, and I'll ask you to sign up with your cards... The number has settled. And I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of removing the remaining points from the 56th meeting, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 568, registered 98 Members, for proposal 73 Members, against 16. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved. Since all the other points of the 56th meeting have been eliminated, I am ending the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and wish you a nice rest of the day and a nice start of May.
