ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u1	60. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, on the other hand (the House Press 1105/ - second reading) I ask that the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek also take the floor in this case. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u2	Thank you, once again and this time it is an agreement between the European Union and Afghanistan. So maybe I would just point out that this is actually the very first contractual relationship, or such a comprehensive contractual relationship between the European Union and Afghanistan. If I were to talk about the interest of the Czech Republic, I think it can be quite clearly defined. We're pretty much engaged in Afghanistan. You know, we actually have the biggest military contingent out there that we have outside the border, so he's in Afghanistan right now. We are trying to support Afghanistan in another way, because we are very interested in stabilising and consolidating the situation in Afghanistan. One of the reasons is obvious. Unfortunately, it is one of the countries that sends us a relatively very strong contingent of migrants, and Afghanistan's role in the migration wave is indeed very high. This is one of the countries that - and even recently, it has been increasing. So our efforts to help reduce corruption, to help stabilize the economy are due precisely to the fact that young people do not leave there and to find opportunities in the country itself. We put in $60 million a year. That means it's a country that's a priority for us on something about our engagement. And if I were to simplify it, it's precisely to help stabilize the source country of migration. Unfortunately, this deal I'm proposing to you is not the readmission agreement we need. This is the agreement that Afghanistan will cooperate with us directly to return those who leave Afghanistan without being life-threatening, which means they had to seek asylum. So it's what we need, Afghanistan's cooperation to handle the refugee wave that runs through Iran, there are about three million Afghánec, and then there's Europe. But that doesn't mean that it doesn't matter, because at least I can say that this agreement is kind of a framework, and it's kind of an introduction to making such a readmission agreement. So there are even provisions in this agreement that actually refer to the fact that, in a similar way, the European Union and Afghanistan will agree on cooperation in the readmis. So even if it's not exactly what we need right now, at this point, it's the maximum possible, and there's definitely the first steps in making such a readmission agreement between us. Let's just say this agreement gives a political framework for negotiating a Readmission Agreement. That's how I think it's said right now. So I believe that we should be very interested in ratifying this agreement, too, because that is the task and the work that we are doing to stabilise the country, whose eventual disruption or political decline is something that, of course, would only strengthen and increase such a migration wave and increase the risks that it poses. So Afghanistan is, of course, a complex problem, and I know that the issue itself could be discussed for a long time, but I have no doubt that ratification of this document will also help the Czech Republic, and it will make a little bit of sense to what we are putting there today, whether we have soldiers there or that we are helping to develop there, that we are helping to train the police and many other things that we are investing in there today. We've already put quite a lot of money in there. And if you're asking me what the effect is, I'm saying, it's just that Afghanistan is holding together and that at this point there's a regime that we can work with.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u3	Thank you. The Foreign Committee resolution was delivered as House Press 1105/1 and I ask that the Foreign Committee rapporteur, Mr Václav Zemek, take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the initiative of the plenary, I will try to short-cut my contribution and let you know that, in fact, the outcome of the discussion on the Foreign Committee is a recommendation from the Chamber of Deputies to approve and ratify this Treaty. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u5	I, too, thank you and open a debate in which I am registering an application: Mr Plzák is reporting. But you have a factual point, that is, first of all, Mr Luzar, because you have a proper application for a debate. That will be followed by a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u6	Thank you, Mr President, for respecting the Rules of Procedure. I apologize to my colleague Plzák, but he can perform in a possible response except for my performance. I would like to follow up on this here with the Minister as a petitioner and say three things about this treaty, which may be worth saying here and not spoken out. Firstly, we conclude a treaty with the state in which the war conflict is taking place. The government with which we conclude this treaty does not control its entire territory, I might even say that it controls a minority of its territory, and the recent development of the war situation in this country is not good from the perspective of the government that we support. That's the first premise of the entire contract. In other words, we do not know how long this treaty will last, because some reservations have already been expressed by the group that is fighting against the current government. So we're concluding a contract that we're not entirely convinced of, and we're concluding with the government of a state that's probably in power because there's a pretty big military contingent of allied troops. The question would be what the situation would look like if those soldiers were withdrawn, as has been promised and repeated in the past. But that is not the basis of this treaty, it is only a framework, a framework of what I would like us to work into a little bit. [[11.40 hours]] Article 8 refers to cooperation with regard to the Rome Statute. This status is very important in the context of war crimes and similar matters relating to international law. For me, however, the problem here is that there is one of the largest military contingents in Afghanistan that is not bound by this Rome Statute. I mean the United States of America, which refused to ratify it. Therefore, from this point of view, I would like to know how Afghanistan, as the host country of this military group, will push this to allow Američan to accede to the Rome Statute and ratify it so that Article 8 can be fulfilled. Among other things, Afghanistan is one of the early ratifications, i.e. adopted the Rome Statute a long time ago, as did the Czech Republic. Another point that may only merit a brief comment is Article 12 Development Cooperation, when it is said that both parties will sign up and implement the Paris Declaration. I am afraid that the Paris Declaration has not yet passed in this House and that it may not even pass, and to commit in an international treaty to something that we do not yet know if it will, I consider not particularly diplomatic from the point of view of Czech diplomacy, it is a treaty between the European Union but ratified by the Czech Parliament. But what is definitely worth mentioning here, and here I will support perhaps the Minister, is Article 28, where we talk about cooperation in the area of migration. This is one of the most important articles and, in my opinion, the main engine of the approval process and the main engine of the European Union, which pushes this Treaty to the end of ratification, point 4 of this Article 28, which speaks: The Parties agree to conclude, at the request of either of the Parties, an agreement governing specific readmission obligations, including provisions relating to nationals of other countries and stateless persons... Here I would like to point out that we have an opportunity - and now I don't know whether it's a good thing or a bad thing - to answer each of you yourself that if we have people here who have no nationality - they won't sign up for me to be specific - or. Even those who say that they are Afričan, but we will be able to take them to Afghanistan under some agreements... It's a bit of a conflict with international law, I guess. I might even dare to be specific here, but I won't be, because I don't want to be the one to launch this debate right now. But in my opinion, it's a bit of a problematic point that required me to say here, so you know what we approve and what frames we're going to be in. And I am no longer talking about the fact that it is not declared here, in which territory these people will be relocated, whether it will be a territory controlled by the current government, or it will be a border area, or vice versa, it will be a territory in quotes from the hostile existing government. And so I go back to the beginning that we are concluding a treaty with a state that is in a war conflict and problematicly controls its own territory. These are also the reasons that lead me to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And now, therefore, the factual remark made by Mr Pavel Plzák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. I consider Mr. Luzar's performance to be very well-founded, and he has said some of the things I wanted to say. Unfortunately, the Minister was not at the hearing of this agreement, his deputy was there, but I hope he was reporting. Mr Luzar has not said one thing here, which he has also complained about at the meeting of the Foreign Committee, and that is that cooperation in this readmis, in any other Readmission Treaty, which may potentially follow this Treaty, will concern only Afghánec who will voluntarily agree to return, which I consider to be very defective, and I do not know how many such people will be found. And, in general, the Readmission Agreements. I may be here at a meeting of the Foreign Committee with the Minister, it was about African countries. I wanted to know why we didn't tie our foreign development and economic aid directly to the conclusion of those readmission agreements. And he told me that somehow it was impossible, that those countries felt that Europe owed them something, and they refused to stand up to it like that. And I think it is a faulty position of the European Union. They keep saying that the Visegrad countries offer no solutions. I think this one solution is. I'd just be tougher in demanding a readmission agreement. And at the moment, I would still ask how long it takes for the Minister to think that possibly the readmission agreement with Afghanistan could be concluded, given the very quantitatively demanding transfer of migrants from Afghanistan to Europe, because we are losing here not for years, but for days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u9	Thank you, too. I do not see any application for a debate. If that is the case, then I will end the debate. I ask the Minister if he wants to take the final floor. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I always thought I had good hearing, but it may not even be true anymore, because I confess to you that I am unable to hear some questions in the House's hustle. So it's just reality. I'm sorry I might not be able to answer you, not because I didn't want to, but I really wasn't able to catch it exactly. So God knows what's going on with the hearing, folks. That's for sure. I used to feel like I didn't have a problem. Now I do. But other than that, you know, I'm gonna tell you this thing. You're saying we're communicating with a government that only controls part of the territory. So what? So what, folks? Is that an argument? Look who we're fighting in Afghanistan. With the Taliban - this is the Islamist extremist movement, the other opponent is Vilájet Chorásan, this is ISIL, friends, ISIL and Daeš. You know what I'm talking about, so-called. Islamic State. So if I think here that Parliament supports the Czech foreign policy, which is engaged in the fight against the so-called. The Islamic State, so I assume there's a consensus here. Isn't it? Or it wouldn't be enough for you if we were in Libya, for example. Did they at least have a government that controls part of the territory? Wouldn't that be enough for you? I would want such a partner in Libya. I wish I had him. We have a fight, a pretty serious fight, with very dangerous terrorists. And you're gonna tell me here-- the government doesn't control the entire territory. Well, I'm sorry, but is that why we're supposed to leave? I don't think that's an argument. So I've heard this argument before. This was still in the phase when I could tell what the Member was saying. But I admit I didn't understand him very well. Because, unfortunately, because they don't control the entire territory again, I don't feel like we should change foreign policy. The point of this agreement is that we want to continue to help the government that is there, which may be imperfect. I had a chance to speak to President Ghaní and Mr Abdulláh. I spoke to Mr Abdulláh here in this House 15 years ago when he was Secretary of State of Afghanistan, who had about a tenth of the area he has today. In the meantime, he's aged since then, but the situation is still similar. From my point of view, they control ten times more in 15 years than when I spoke to him when the Secretary of State was that tiny state around Kabul. So, as you know, we're actually helping out here with the same people. Maybe I don't have to be happy with how they don't do it, I can see - and maybe very well - a number of imperfections, but I don't have another partner. And elsewhere, in some other countries in North Africa, I'd be happy to have at least this. That's just how reality stands. And as for the enemy, and sometimes in politics, it's good to know who the enemy is so we know where we stand, so here I said clearly - it's the Taliban and it's ISIL. And I hope there's a consensus that this is someone we should deal with and who we should face. Or these movements will take over Afghanistan. And someone here said the right thing, and maybe it was you, Mr. Ambassador, that maybe if we didn't help them, it would really fall apart. So I'm asking you, is that what we want? We don't. Well. So that's why I think this deal makes sense, despite all the imperfections. [[11.50 hours]] I said here that I would also like to have a readmission agreement. A fellow Member quoted that I said it couldn't be done. I mean, you can't do it like a bargain like us, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it, you can't do it. I think, and I didn't say that for myself, that's what I said for the representatives of the EU, so the willingness to do it is not that hard. On the other hand, I think it is legitimate in something, and perhaps we are actually doing this for the Czech Republic. When we're doing development aid today, we're also asking those governments to cooperate with us to join the Readmis, because it's something that's very urgent for us, and the situation is serious for us. So when I said it couldn't be done, I meant that it just doesn't go in any simple, simple form, but, of course, generally tends to get cooperation to the level that we can agree on these things as well. You know, the problem is, you have to have a partner who's willing to deal with you at all. I'm not talking about Afghanistan right now, but in the case of African countries, you just don't have to sit at the table at all, so if you come up with business like this, you probably don't even have to start. So that's why I said it's not that simple. However, the fact that this is part of the Czech policy, that we are trying to promote it in the EU, that we would like to see the most thorough readmission agreement, probably wider than the one you said was coming about, that is all true, but politics is the art of the possible. And I think it's worth working with this government, despite all the imperfections that are here, and with this government, trying to create the best possible readmission agreement that would be as broad as possible. But you see, one thing is our wishes and the reality of those countries that are often very difficult. I'm sorry that I didn't answer everything, but the basic thing is that I stand by the fact that it makes sense to ratify this agreement for the Czech Republic, and despite all the complexity of the situation - I really know a lot about it - I think this is the way we are able to agree on in Europe and which is the only one we should be watching now. If we step away from this, it would be wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-005-060.u11	I thank you and ask whether the rapporteur Václav Zemek wants to take the final floor. [[Interest in the application for a plenary debate.]] The debate is not open. Only the final words of the Minister and the rapporteur are now. The debate is not open. Each item has the final words of the Minister and the rapporteur. The rapporteur does not want the final word, and we will proceed to the motion for a vote on the motion for a resolution. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I'm gonna ask you for a moment. I ask whether a motion for a resolution needs to be tabled as it is presented. I don't see this request anywhere, in which case I will vote. I am opening the vote and asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 68, 121 Members and Members registered, for proposal 78, against no one. I am of the opinion that the motion for a resolution has been approved, and I am ending the discussion of this point. I'm gonna open up another point in today's meeting, and that's it.
