ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u1	140. Members of Martin Plíšek, Jan Chvojka, Marek Benda and Radek Vondráček's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 85/1996 Coll., on Advocacy, as amended /German press 853/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as press 853/1. I beg the plaintiff of Mr Martin Plíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u2	Mr President, dear colleagues, let me briefly introduce you to the amendment to the Law on Advocacy as the petitioners across the political spectrum in this case. I would like to point out first of all that this is a technical amendment whose need arose from the application of the current law on advocacy, which has not been amended for many years, and practice has requested some clarification. This law includes three circles of change against the current state. Firstly, it is the preparation of legal associates and the change of the legal examination regime. Secondly, it is the extension of the tools of the Czech Bar Association's disciplinary liability to lawyers who are guilty of both the state regulations and the law on advocacy. And then these are the individual partial changes that respond to the shortcomings in practice. When I briefly comment on the first circle of problems solved, the quality and length of preparation for law enforcement play a big role in terms of entry into the state of law. It is currently embodied in the three-year legal practice of a legal associate, subject to registration in the list of legal associates, inter alia, to an employment relationship with a lawyer or a law firm, for the relevant period laid down. The amendment brings into the law the legislative anchoring of the role of trainer. He emphasizes his experience there, if he allows himself to raise and lead the clerk for a certain period of time. At the same time, he is really going to be able to devote himself to this associate, and to ensure that each of them is prepared - that this preparation will be devoted to the appropriate, appropriate area and expertise. The second important factor of entry into the profession of attorney is the legal examination, which according to law is a condition for entry into the list of legal associates. Although there are other types of tests that are based on equal legal examination and thus allow the passability between the profession of attorney, judge, notary, court executor, the largest number of persons enrolled in the list of lawyers are persons who have passed the bar exam each year, which is a fundamental filter for entering the profession of lawyer. The correct setting of the exam has, of course, a fundamental effect on the level of knowledge and skills of new lawyers. It is therefore added to the current form of a written test, which includes a case study, as well as a test, a general test of knowledge. And of course, the oral examination of the lawyer remains valid. Thus, the test would be newly divided into three parts - a written test which has the character of an admission and can be repeated at any time in the event of the failure of the applicant, a written part of the test, which includes case studies for individual sectors of law and proof of practical skills, and then an oral examination. [[10.10 hours]] Another important point of this amendment is the extension of the tools of the Czech Bar Association's control and disciplinary powers. It would now be possible to withdraw the book on the declaration of authenticity of the signature, which gives the Chamber the right to withdraw the book for the period specified in the relevant disciplinary decision, i.e. from six months to three years, if the Chamber finds that a disciplinary error has been committed by a lawyer in connection with the making of the declaration of authenticity of the signature. At the same time, it is proposed that the Board of Directors be able to operationally prevent the commissioning of further disciplinary offences in connection with the book that the book, on a proposal from the Chairman of the Supervisory Board, will be held for a period of appropriate disciplinary proceedings. Another new disciplinary measure against a lawyer who violates either the state law or the law on advocacy is a temporary ban on the performance of activities under the law on advocacy. The existing disciplinary measures do not contain a specific instrument which could affect the work of a lawyer when he is guilty, for example. in the management of the client's assets in the framework of custody. This instrument allows the introduction of a temporary ban on the pursuit of activities, i.e. temporary prohibition of the conduct of legal custody in the event of the finding that the lawyer has committed disciplinary misconduct in connection with the conduct of custody. As with the withdrawal of the book, it would also be possible for the board of directors to pre-pronounce the prohibition on carrying out this activity during disciplinary proceedings. In addition to these proposed changes, partly conceptual, some partial amendments to the law concerning individual legal institutes are proposed. The reason for their adoption is an effort to specify the rights and obligations of lawyers based on the knowledge of disciplinary practice. These are in particular the following areas: expressing the possibility of suspending the enforcement of the lawyer's own application. It is also the removal of a lawyer from the list of lawyers due to the obligation to be insured. At present, this can only be done on the basis of disciplinary proceedings, which is lengthy and inefficient. Furthermore, it is a specification from which a lawyer still practicing law in the company can start to practise in a different way. The obligation of a lawyer to refuse the provision of legal services in cases where the parties concerned do not object to the provision of legal services by a lawyer is also eased. The limit on insurance benefits must be proportionate by law to the damage suffered, for which the lawyer may be liable in individual legal cases, thereby avoiding the situation of the lawyer being insured, but at a much lower level than that which he may cause in the provision of the legal services in question. Finally, I would like to add that the Government has given its consent to the draft law. Of course, we are ready to debate if this proposal is released for second reading, in the constitutional committee on the relevant amendments, the adjustments. In view of the nature of this amendment and actually the agreement of the entities concerned, including the executive, I ask you to release this proposal to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u3	Yes. And please the rapporteur, who is Mr Jeroným Tejc.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by saying, in order to be sure, that I do not feel in conflict of interest, that I am a lawyer and, at my own request, I am suspended from law enforcement at the moment. This law was submitted on 30 June 2016. The government's position is not too extensive as it usually is. It is merely stated that on 27 July 2016, the Government discussed and agreed to the draft law. If all the government's positions were this economical, that would certainly be a good thing. So in this sense, nothing prevents us from discussing the law at second reading. I would like to stress that the main objective of this proposal is to improve the quality of the law enforcement, i.e. strengthens the protection of those who hire lawyers for different services of a legal nature, increasing their protection, i.e. strengthens the disciplinary liability of lawyers, as has already been mentioned, and also strengthens the quality of the education of associates who can become lawyers, and prevents situations where, in principle, in many cases, there are not law firms that raise legal associates, but some kind of multiplication plants that function only as large-scale producers, thanks to the cheap working force of legal associates as large-scale associates, who in principle do not have any real practice and know only a certain amount of legal activity. And that is a thing that is certainly not in favour of potential future clients of these lawyers, but rather the contrary, and it is therefore good that this law aims at change. I shall therefore only recommend what the appellant has already stated, i.e. discuss this proposal in the second and third readings, proposing a minor amendment myself, so as not to extend the opportunity of lawyers to verify the documents. I think it's a good thing on the one hand, on the other hand, it's a little risky. So I'm just saying that this would be a minor adjustment that I suppose we could agree on in committee and then in the House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. I have a factual point here, Mrs Válková, but the Rules of Procedure say that a factual point can only be taken into account in the course of a debate that we have not yet started. So if you agree, I'll give the floor to the first duly logged in, which you can respond to at your discretion. I beg Mr Karamazov and then Mrs Válková's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u6	Dear colleagues, according to the current § 7 para. One of the conditions under which a lawyer can pass a bar exam is to pay the fee. This will be determined by the Czech Bar Association. By law, this fee cannot amount to more than CZK 10,000, and at present it is CZK 8.5,000. Now the petitioners of the House's press are proposing to withdraw this financial limit from the law and to leave the levy entirely on the Bar Association. I understand that the bar exams are to be re-divided into two parts, the initial written test and the practical oral part. It is therefore logical that the fees for both parts will vary - usually much lower for a written test. What I do not fully understand, however, is why the law should no longer contain any limits to where the fees for carrying out the bar exams can be climbed if the amendment is adopted. I would therefore like to ask the petitioners whether it is really their intention to allow charges to be set at any amount and what reasons they have for this procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u7	Now, please, Mrs Válková and her point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u8	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will only use this short time limit of two minutes to stress that, as Minister of Justice, I had this proposal, albeit in a modified form, on my desk. And then, when I left, after consulting the Czech Bar Association, I made a promise that I would do everything in my power to pass this proposal in the Chamber of Deputies. He has made some real changes, and I think that in the form he is presented, we can raise our hand for him. It's definitely gonna be an improvement in law enforcement. And what I wanted to draw attention to is that what both the petitioner and the rapporteur have already spoken about will not perish here - there is still § 42 para. 4. If we approve it in this way, it is designed so that it is designed to supplement the sentence that the chamber can establish a publicly beneficial legal person. That the Czech Bar Association as a public-law corporation be expressly empowered by law to establish such a legal person. The purpose and purpose is to improve, to delegate, some activities such as the education of associates, the education of lawyers, not least the provision of free legal assistance, which is now carried out by lawyers under Section 18 of the Act on the Czech Bar Association. I therefore recommend also for this reason, which could remain outside our attention and which will definitely contribute to improving the quality of the advocacy, proposed by the amendment, to let the second reading, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u9	One more point of fact, Mr Stupčuk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not understand why this bill is presented in this way and not as a government bill from the Ministry of Justice workshop. Rather, it convinces me that really serious reasons for adopting such a bill amendment do not exist. My personal experience from practice, and I believe many others, is that the level of associates and trials is constantly improving and increasing, as evidenced by the increasing difficulty of these trials -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u11	Ambassador, I'm sorry, but I've been warned by President Stanjura that there is no government ministers. Of course, I don't want to restrict you, but we can't continue the negotiations. This means, please, the Prime Minister of the government clubs, to ensure that at least one minister is present, and, of course, I will give you sufficient time to complete your factual point. Problem is, I don't see... I ask Prime Minister Mihola, who is the only President of the Government's MP's club, to develop some activity in this regard, or I will have to interrupt the House's negotiations. [[After a while.]] I see the Minister of Industry. [[Offers for representation from the diaper.]] Yes, there are various adepts to serve as ministers, but they will wait for the election. [[Fun.]] I ask Mr Stupčuk to return to the rhetorical site. I think it was about 1:17, so I'll take it into consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u12	Let me get this straight, I'll follow up on my suspended speech. In principle, I have doubts as to the relevance of the reasons given. Even the petitioner and rapporteur stated these reasons only in a general position, not on some specific examples from practice. I am therefore subjectively convinced that the quality is on the contrary increasing as the demands of selection grow, and as the complexity of the tests that are complex and which are underway by individual applicants increases. I can't resist the impression that if the law can no longer achieve the required numerus clausus, what notaries have, they simply try in every way to pass individual exams, so that in practice the increase of individual associates who succeed in practice in passing exams and become lawyers is as small as possible. So that's what I see as, like, the main motive for regulation. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u13	Vice-President Filip has the floor with a proper application for debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking in conflict of interest. I'm an attorney, license number 7265, law enforcement through an employed lawyer. I don't miss a member of the government here but Minister Pelikán. I do not think it is possible for us to accept this, and I think my colleague Stupčuk said it quite precisely that we are discussing this bill as not a government proposal, but a parliamentary proposal. In this respect, the position of the Bar is specific, perhaps even more specific than, for example, the medical chambers - we dealt with this yesterday - because the Bar is established here to represent citizens not only against other citizens but also against the State. Therefore, there is compulsory membership in the Bar Association and, in my opinion, the Government should be interested in a balanced relationship between lawyers and the State. She obviously doesn't care about that at all. And the constant increase in the powers and attraction of the powers of the executor chamber, the chamber of notaries and others at the expense of advocacy is detrimental to the real exercise of attorneyism, i.e. to the protection of citizens' interests against bureaucracy of the state and to the protection of their most fundamental human rights at all. That's why I miss Secretary Pelikán here. In my view, it is his shame that we are discussing this amendment very late in the first place, when it was submitted when the Ministry of Justice did not want to do so, although the requirement of the Bar was already clear in 2014, and we asked, and I was not alone, but it was many others who demanded that the Ministry of Justice start working honestly with the Bar Association, with the legal faculties. I'm very sorry that we're not worthy of Secretary Pelikán being here for this hearing. In this respect, then, I must say that I am greatly dissatisfied with this. Just because we listed it this morning doesn't mean anything but that it doesn't matter to the government. Because if Minister Pelikán wanted to be present, he could have reserved it and, on Tuesday morning, like other ministers, he could have announced to the political grémium of the House that he wanted to be present, and, of course, we would have proposed a term of discussion so that he could be present. That, in my opinion, is a pretty crucial matter. We know the excuses from his side and the suggestions he has here when he discusses the proposals from his workshop. I am truly dissatisfied in this regard. I believe that the amendment must be discussed by the end of the term of office, and I believe that those Members who have signed under it have done some honest work. Of course, we can have different views on this from a different point of view, but in this respect, I believe that we can express those different views during the committee procedure. And I think it's pretty crucial. I just could not forgive myself for this complaint because there is actually an uneven distribution of the obligations and rights that individual groups here have dealing with the rights of citizens of the Czech Republic. What I dare say in conclusion. It's quite simple. Either the State has an interest in protecting citizens' rights and therefore is interested in a correct relationship between the Bar and the State, or the State's bureaucracy, if you wish, and then is interested in discussing the following standard and that is the bill for free legal aid. You know, she used to say it pretty accurately here, colleague Válková. Today, the Bar Association carries out free legal aid on behalf of lawyers. That is why lawyers pay their fee to the Bar in the amount of CZK 8,000, no other chamber wants such money from its members, and in this respect most of the funds are just inserted in order to provide free legal aid to citizens. I do not object to this, I support it, but on the other hand, I must say that it is a very incorrect relationship from the state towards this chamber. But that's what we're going to talk about when we propose the following standard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Thank you, too, Mr Vice-President. Mr Kubíček and Mr Plíšek are now with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just like to point out that Minister Pelikán has been duly excused, and the unfortunate inclusion of this point on today has led to the fact that he cannot participate. At the same time, it supports this amendment, and it is therefore really important to put this amendment on the day when Minister Pelikán will be able to participate in our negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u17	Thank you, too. Now, then, the plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear colleagues, I will briefly respond to the speech of my fellow Members in the debate. First of all, by your means to Mr Karamazov. This is certainly an interesting subject - the amount of the amount of the test to be anchored directly into the law. Of course, just as in other legal and judicial professions, the general knowledge test is anchored, so the question is whether it is necessary to fix the amount directly into the law, because other judicial professions do not have it that way, but I certainly do not prevent us from anchoring a limit within the committee. Of course, this does not have to be accurately stated, but some limit on the amount of the test fee has been anchored. [[10.30 hours]] If, of course, I respond to my colleagues Stupčuk and Filip, by your means, we will certainly also be careful in committee to measure the new obligations of both associates and lawyers, but also to allow the Chamber to be balanced. However, on the other hand, there have been some cases of law violations in the past, violations of some disciplinary liability and duty. These cases have been mediated, and I therefore think, for example, that the new penalty provisions of the Bar Association with regard to the withdrawal of the book on the declaration of authenticity of signatures or the possibility of temporarily prohibiting the conduct of activities are appropriate. And this, unlike other professions, was missing. As far as the Minister of Justice is concerned, indeed, this law has been being prepared for a long time. The Ministry of Justice should not have put forward this proposal in the light of any other of its tasks. I just add that those laws relating to professional chambers are not just this law, but they are often presented in the way of parliamentary bills. And we have just learned on the constitutional committee that this standard, which has not been paid attention in the past, is a good thing to do, so it is good that we proceed to second reading and possibly modify it. Of course, we will also discuss how long a lawyer should have practice to train an associate. There I am ready, and as the petitioner, I announce it, or agree to amend this bill. In view of the time limits that this Chamber of Deputies has, and given the nature of this amendment, I would like to propose that we reduce the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u19	I thank you and register your proposal. With a factual remark... a procedural proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, with a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u20	I'm putting a procedural motion to interrupt this press hearing in the presence of the Minister of Justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u21	Okay, thank you. Since this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. For the record, I'll repeat the procedural proposal. We will vote on the suspension of this item in the presence of Minister of Justice, Minister Pelikán. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 291; 156 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 41, against 62. This procedural proposal has been rejected and we will continue to discuss it. Another duly registered member is Mr Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I will probably be quite briefer than my previous speakers. I would just like to point out that, from my point of view, this is a very serious, albeit necessary law, because the law on advocacy requires its amendment for a long time. I would like to remind you that this is essentially a law that was adopted under No. 85/1996. And I'm a little bit struck by two facts at this point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u23	I apologize, Mr Member, for entering into your speech, but colleagues and colleagues, I will ask you to keep your voice down, because I do not understand what the Member is speaking. If you have a need to deal with things, go deal with them in the lobby. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So I want to emphasise once again that I understand the reasons for the petitioners to submit this law. I am well aware of the fact that the law on advocacy was adopted under No. 85/1996 and has not seen significant changes since then. However, a number of other legislation is, and it is appropriate for the Chamber of Deputies to address this issue. However, given that the performance of the advocacy is of a public nature, and the Bar Association carries out a number of acts which are also in the public interest, that is, in some respects, it carries out acts which may also be carried out by public authorities, public corporations or other building chambers, I see a bit of the law on advocacy as a conflict of interest between different building chambers, especially notaries and lawyers, but also, on the other hand, by judicial executors. And at this point, I am amazed that such an essential standard and such an important standard is not actually presented by the government of the Czech Republic, that it does not deal with the government of the Czech Republic and does not try to speed up its discussion with the fact that it is a consensual government proposal, but that it is actually all left to the parliamentary initiative. It is quite clear that it is very difficult for someone, with all due respect, to write this standard from the petitioners who would be more familiar with the issue. So there are apparently adopted opinions, especially the Bar Associations. From this point of view, I think that there is also a striking justification for the government, which, in my view, is somewhat alibistically and unfairly taking positions on individual bills, particularly the MPs, with the fact that - aside from Senate proposals - it will take somewhere to work with justification and interpretation from the explanatory report. And here it focused essentially on three lines, where the government says that at its meeting on 27 July 2016, it discussed and assessed the draft law amending Law No. 85/1996 on advocacy, as amended, and agreed to this proposal. In this context, I would like this proposal to be released for second reading, but not to have a shorter period of time and also to reach out to what is quite common and increasingly common, in this Chamber of Deputies, that an amendment is subsequently drawn up by the government or the competent central body of the state administration, a very comprehensive one who will adopt it as his proposal, and it is quite clear that it is a proposal from the workshop of one or another central body of the state administration. For this reason, I would not like to be in this case because it is probably no secret that there is a fight between advocacy and the notary chamber and bailiffs, that the next will be the law on legal aid. [[unintelligible]] And all of this can be very negatively affected especially by the citizens that lawyers actually provide, even though, of course, for remuneration, legal aid, and should actually contribute to increasing legal culture and legal awareness in our society.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-003-140.u25	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I don't see anyone. If so, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and rapporteur if you want to take the final floor. It's not like that. In that case, then, we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I do not see any proposal, in which case we will proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of the proposal that the motion for discussion be given to the constitutionally-legal committee as a committee of guarantee. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with serial number 292. 156 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 124, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I am asking whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment of the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see a suggestion like that. In the general debate, there was a proposal to shorten the discussion by 30 days. I am now opening the vote and asking who is in favour of shortening the 30-day hearing period, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 293. 156 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 110, against 1. I note that this proposal has been approved and that the hearing period has been reduced by 30 days. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
