ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u1	273. Government bill amending Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members, as amended /German Press 1024/ - Third Reading Mr. Milan Chovanec and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Security, Mr. Stanislav Huml, have already taken his place at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 1024/3, which was delivered on 25 May 2017. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 1024/4. I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. It's not like that. I am opening up a debate in which Mr Ondráček, who I am giving the floor to, first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I could speak for an hour on this subject, if not longer, but I will try to limit my speech to the shortest possible time and be only very, very factual. Let me start by reading a few numbers and try to think about these numbers. January - plus 18, February - minus 4, March - minus 102, April - minus 133, May - minus 174. All in all, all in all, 174. If you don't know what the numbers are, I'll tell you. It is the difference between newly recruited police officers and those who have ceased their service. In the first five months of this year, 174 police officers ended their service with the Police of the Czech Republic more than they managed to recruit. If we were based on the material that was once discussed by the Security Committee, and he thought it a bold plan that this year he was recruiting thousands of police officers into the Czech Police, we would be at a minus of nearly 1,200. What's the current state of police? The table plan is 41 874 tables, but the occupancy is 40 117. There are currently 1,698 policemen missing from the Police of the Czech Republic. We can ask ourselves why. Why can't a job be created so that the police of the Czech Republic are interested in the service? There are several reasons, and we have talked about each of them many times. It's the salaries mentioned above in the first place. Of course, it should be noted that from 1. 7. Returns to the security forces 10 percent, which was taken from them in 2009, which is commendable, but their real wage will be only one or two percent higher than in 2009. The inflation rate is just like that. Police have processed material called Human Resources Police of the Czech Republic, information on the status of personnel, where she states very factually that in 2005 there were more than 47 thousand police officers. [[shows]] The worst fall was in 2013, where there were 38 363, and in 2017 40 389. The police themselves are getting older very quickly and it's a problem we have to solve. It is not only the problem of the Ministry of the Interior, but it is a problem for all of us, because we as legislators should want the Police of the Czech Republic, but also all other security forces to be stable. Just because I am talking about the Police of the Czech Republic does not mean that there are no similar problems with the Ministry of Justice within the framework of the Prison Service, where the situation may be even worse than with the police. If you look at the reception of a police officer, in 2007, the average income of police officers in relation to the average wage in the Czech Republic was about 150 percent. For last year, it's 130 percent. The worst was in 2012, when the average salary of a police officer compared to the average salary in the Czech Republic was only 125 percent. Some might say they have above-average salaries. Yes, that's right. In total, the police have above average salaries in the Czech Republic, but it is necessary to realize what service it is and what is the service oath of the Police of the Czech Republic - even with the commitment of their own life. And unfortunately, sometimes we witness that too. Last week on Wednesday and this week, the government discussed the development concept of the Police of the Czech Republic until 2020, an update of 2017 which states - and I am glad that it is not trying to mist - some concrete facts that should interest us, you colleagues and colleagues. [[shows]] Police currently have 521 district and local departments, those services where there is continuous service. But 120 of them, which is 28 percent, which means almost one third, are unable to provide 24-hour service due to the personnel situation. This brings together two or more departments and, of course, increases the territory and logically the possible driving times. Similarly, in the case of the intervention forces, either the URNA or the intervention units of the regions, where we are unable to cover the bold exit plan within 120 minutes in the entire territory of the Czech Republic. Of course, I would like to see what the Police of the Czech Republic and the Ministry of Interior have done in this material for their targets by 2020 to be able to meet at least 50 percent. Ministry of the Interior i The Police Presidium is aware that it is unable to meet the targets it imposed in 2016 on human resources and already states in this material that the recruitment of new 4,000 police officers is decomposing or moving for another two years. In this material, which is an amendment to the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members, eight headings have been defined that the Ministry of the Interior wishes to enforce in agreement with trade unions. It's just part of the problems that they are. I understand that there was no consensus on some of the larger ones, and I mentioned, for example, death at the beginning of the first hearing. I am pleased that the Ministry of the Interior helped me process and agreed to increase the death rate, as is the case with the amendment, which is part of the comprehensive material of the Security Committee, but which is once again modified in the way that I mentioned it in the context of loading second reading, which means that in the event of death, a lump sum of 12 salaries will be paid to the surviving member not so as to be stepped up according to how long the member served and would increase. [[9.50 hours]] Then there are other things we have talked about. In some discussions, the Ministry of the Interior said that they were populist, and as regards for example. increasing the special risk premium, I have shifted efficiency in this paragraph from 1. 1. 2019 to have the Ministry of the Interior, respectively. Police presidium, enough space and time to do a personnel audit and find out what the level of risk is in individual locations, and set new special supplements with effect from 1. 1. 2019. This means that the State budget for 2018 will not affect this in any way. However, this is a matter that needs to be discussed, and I would be happy if you would support this proposal as supported by colleagues in the Committee on Security. The third amendment is a form of stabilization fee, because, as I said, the police are getting older, but unfortunately there is a great deal of space between the longer-servers or the long-servers and the newcomers. I believe that giving a stabilization supplement, stabilizing remuneration to a member is worth more than getting new and new police officers over and over again and waiting four years for the service to end again, because there are more than one fifth of them. Currently 22 percent of the Czech Police will not last more than four years. The material I mentioned also notes that the reception, training, armament of a police officer costs CZK 260,000 per year for the Ministry of Interior. I repeat, CZK 260,000. The Ministry of Interior notes that the lost investment in human resources over the last eight years has cost CZK 934 million. Wasted human resources spending CZK 934 million, almost one billion. So I believe that giving a disciplinary fee, a stabilization fee every five years will certainly pay us in the next few years. And maybe it'll be less expensive than training, equipment, armaments, and the hiring of new and new police officers over and over again. As part of one amendment, we said that in the case of a recruitment allowance, we would demand that a member undertake to remain in service with the Police of the Czech Republic for a period of, originally, four years, the recommended proposal says six years, so this does not actually solve much. So I would like to thank, at this point, colleagues who are members of the Security Committee and who voted on the amendments that I tabled and supported by my vote. I was particularly surprised by colleagues from the right part of the political spectrum, and I am glad that we are looking at security problems with the same eyes, because, as I have mentioned several times, safety has no colors. The safety of all of us is either good or bad. And you, colleagues, can also express this in the vote on the amendments tabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u3	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mrs Jana Černochová, who I am giving the floor to, has signed up for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that we are already in the third reading of the draft amendment to the Act on the Service of Members of the Security Corps and that it has already been in plenary in the past, but also in the committees, many have been said. However, before the final vote, let me introduce you to a few important points concerning the amendments. At the second reading you could hear many questions towards the Minister of the Interior Chovanc, towards the Police President, but also to the police unions and to the Departments of Security. I have not yet received an answer to many of them. But let police officers, customs officers, prison officers, firefighters and others take a picture of how their elected representatives in the government, in Parliament, their superiors and, above all, their trade union colleagues approach the issue of stabilizing security forces and, above all, the police. Last week, I again wanted to know the answers of the Minister, Mr Police President, and, of course, the views of the trade unions that worked with the Ministry to prepare this amendment, which both sides like to emphasise. Neither the Minister nor Mr. Police President or his representatives arrived at the meeting. I was totally upset about what I learned at the last meeting of the Security Committee, when I again asked a few questions at least to the trade unions, respectively. only one trade union, NOS Police of the Czech Republic, because the President of the Union of Security Forces was not at this meeting either. Why would there be, after all, only the service law of the security forces is under discussion, right? Why would the Minister be there? Why would the police president be there? To hear our opinions? No. They don't care. These were the following simple questions that I wanted to hear from trade union representatives. First question: does the union and the Police Presidium agree that my proposed stabilization contribution to police officers is better than my recruitment allowance? Yes - no. Next question: Impacts of the recruitment allowance in the state budget, respectively. the security corps budget is zero. I've said that a few times around here. So the unions and the Police Presidium agree that they want to improve and stabilize the police for zero crowns? Yes or no? Third question: Do the security forces have sufficient funds? Yes or no? Finally, a member of the Bureau of the Independent Trade Union of the Police of the Czech Republic, which literally said - let me quote: The amount of money that swallowed the 150 hours, still outstanding, was left with 250 million crowns. The stabilization supplement, which would at least smell, would have to be at least CZK 4,000. In this state, we have come to the conclusion that a stabilization supplement could receive five percent of the members. And what such a selective stabilisation contribution would do in the environment of the security forces, that is quite obvious. And he continued to quote again: If, of course, a stabilisation contribution was financed so that it could really serve what it should, i.e. stabilise members who serve for some time, it might be possible to do so in the future. End of quote. In the final conclusion, this police unionist said that - again quote: Not that we have a negative, but trade unions have a negative relation to a surcharge, but under the current circumstances and under the existing finances and the existing distribution of forces, I am against it because it would do more harm than goodness. That's what the union tells you. You're hearing really well. The unions do not want more money for police officers and de facto have no interest in stabilising members of the security forces when an opportunity arises, and this House is willing to discuss more favourable conditions for police officers. I do not fully understand how trade unionists are unable to study parliamentary amendments or whether the Ministry has withheld them from them, to the amendment to the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members. And as you will see in the vote, there were not many amendments. I, Mr Ondráček, Štětina, Procházka and Váňa, de facto tabled amendments. That's all. [[10.00 hours]] It is unbelievable that the union doesn't find it weird that the reimbursement of the 150 hours of overtime that they're always chasing is actually an illusion and an empty political gesture without a hint of stabilization and a positive effect. Ironically, the explanatory memorandum states, among other things, that in the context of the proposed legislation, possible positive effects are envisaged in the social sphere, as the service income of security forces members is likely to increase by paying overtime. When we look at the matter without pink glasses and see reality, we will see that the amendment certainly does not have a positive impact, because, as we will also learn in the explanatory report of this amendment, the only impact for the state budget will be the reimbursement of overtime. And that's CZK 210 million. The Minister of Finance is sitting here, I believe he'll take another look. The allowance and reimbursement of the allowances for the holiday service shall be budgetaryly neutral. As I said before, stabilization for zero! The Minister can do miracles! And so the security forces will pay for it from their current budgets, Mr. Secretary? If the budget doesn't count on it, they're going to cut off the existing money on rewards, they're going to cut off other entitlements, and they're going to pay it out of their own when there's zero? How else can you explain it? That's the third time I've asked! I asked about the committee. When some wise guy from the government coalition says to me, "You should have asked about the committee!" - I asked. But there was no one to answer me because the minister wasn't sitting there and the police president wasn't sitting there either. So I'm asking here. But I'm going back to the 150 hours and paying them off. Because in the explanatory memorandum, for example, the impact for the police is set at 88 million. 88 million a year for 40,000 police officers are CZK 2,200 a year per police officer, which roughly corresponds to the contributions of one working hour to a police officer. So the government will pay every member one hour. I'm afraid that's all the money's gonna be. The argument that the replacement leave will be primarily provided and then when the overtime service is paid will not succeed because it is a base. And few can afford to lose even one cop! I know what I'm talking about. The base in our capital, co-workers and colleagues, is approaching about 1,000 police officers and police officers. Can you imagine in the capital? Can you imagine if something happened here? Yes, then the Minister of the Interior would do what is easiest for him - he would ask for the cooperation of the Army of the Czech Republic. Is this a system solution? So, yes, I will support the payment of the one hour you're proposing, but remember that the other costs will be borne by the security forces from their budgets. I wonder why trade unions don't want a stabilization contribution and they're very supportive and they're de facto co-designing to pay one hour of service. It's not normal. I'm going to stop by the union for a while, because they say that the stabilization contribution, which would at least feel, would have to be at least CZK 4,000. The unions were obviously unable to study my amendments on the stabilisation contribution that I presented in April, so two months of time is not enough. So let me remind them and the others who are watching us today, and I hope that we finally have unionists among us, exactly what I'm proposing. A disciplinary fee, a stabilisation allowance that would not be paid, would be awarded to a member on the occasion of a successful duration of five years' service and every five years of the successful duration of the service. When the head of the Security Service would lay down the conditions of successful service, or as I propose in the next version of the stabilisation allowance presented by me, it is possible to incorporate the conditions of successful maintenance directly into the law. The successful duration of the service would be understood as the period during which a member of the Security Council has not been prosecuted for criminal offences or disciplines for disciplinary offences or offences committed intentionally. The height of the stabilisation contribution would be determined by the head of the Security Council so that we do not have to change the law every time we need to increase such a stabilisation contribution and can respond more flexibly to the needs of security forces, their members in the situation and in the region. But remember the scenes that preceded the opening of the service law. How the Minister had to swear that if the service bill was opened, he wouldn't touch the debt. This has also been heard on committees several times. So you want to open the service code every time? Do you want to open this Pandořin box every time? Wouldn't it really be better for the head of the Security Council to determine the amount of the stabilisation allowance? So that the service bill doesn't always have to open up and be more flexible? The specific amount of the stabilisation contribution, which would be determined according to the long-term evaluation of the needs of the occupation of the posts and the reduction of fluctuations to the lowest possible level. It can be assumed that the highest stabilisation contribution would be paid within the Regional Directorate of the capital Prague and other Regional Directorates, where there is a long-term problem of occupying posts and where there is great competition from specialised services with national competence, especially in the case of the Police of the Czech Republic, or other armed forces and congregations and other employers. In Prague, where unemployment is almost zero, the problem of getting anyone into security or armed forces is much worse than in other regions. I consider it essential to ensure that the remuneration is not paid to all on a flat-rate basis, depending on the rank and salary, but only to those who properly meet the requirements of the impeccable performance of the service. However, not in connection with the conclusions of the service evaluation, which is too subjective. I imagine the height of the stabilization allowance, for example, from 5 to 50,000 crowns. Therefore, in the case of the proposed five-year intervals and the estimated service period of 30 years, the total amount for the member would be CZK 6 times CZK 5 to 50,000, total CZK 30 to 300,000, i.e. CZK 1000 to CZK 10,000 per year. Isn't it worth it? I don't think we can expect thousands of people to rush into the security forces from the point of view of the real state that is in this society. Don't we really want to stabilize those who are already in them? But beware - and here I am asking the Minister to listen to me too - the unions have mysteriously come to the conclusion that a stabilization allowance could be paid to five percent of the members, and this is supposed to create a roar among the policemen. But what about the proposed recruitment allowance, which is only intended for potential recruits? That won't be a demotivating element for already serving members? The recruitment allowance does not have any ambition to maintain a member of the staff recruited. It does not affect any existing members of the security forces and does not stabilise. Touching already serving members can only be done by paying out of the amount of the staff income of these existing members, as the impact on the state budget is assumed - I repeat - to be zero. Mr. Finance Minister, zero! [[10.10 hours]] The recruitment allowance thus does not provide the slightest precondition for the stabilisation of security forces, on the contrary, and for reducing intergenerational tensions between members, the long-term maintenance of members of the service, the performance of service obligations at the appropriate level required. Although the recruitment allowance is accompanied by an argumentary on an unacceptable, significantly lower starting salary for security forces than for other security workers, this income difference is not addressed in any way. To think that we're stabilizing security forces for zero crowns is pure populism. It must be acknowledged that stabilization will really cost us that miracles do not exist in this regard. That's why my proposed contribution, the stabilization, is counting on the impact on the state budget. Suppose that the stabilisation contribution would be paid, as I suggest, within a five-year time span, e.g. with an average of CZK 10,000. Then, not 5% each year would receive this amount, as the trade unionists, who obviously can't count, but one fifth of the security forces. Under these conditions, CZK 124,600,000 would be paid annually to members of all security forces. Similarly, budgetary implications can be calculated for other variants of the proposed five-year interval, i.e. 5,000 to 50,000 in five years, i.e. 1 thousand to 10,000 in a year of successful service, i.e. 62 300 000 to 623 million per year. Yes, there would have to be an increase in the various budget chapters of the State budget, since, in the event of no increase in the individual chapters, there would have to be an allocation of funds to the Security Council budget and, according to this volume, to determine the margin and the amount of the stabilisation contributions paid. However, it is clear that without the actual budgetary implications for the state budget, this would be a pre-election populism rather than a de facto step towards stabilizing the security forces. Those of the Security Councils who faithfully and loyally perform their ministry certainly deserve real and adequate appreciation and not just illusionary and magical empty gestures. In my opinion, this would clearly be a better way of rewarding and stabilizing and motivating than for example. with all due respect to his colleague Ondráček, he is making a proposed contribution or version of a flat-rate contribution to the money donation, where his colleague Ondráček wants to give everyone according to the rank and level of the salary, not according to the work done and the merit. I'm worried about it here, and I don't think my colleague has really thought it through...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u5	Yes, Madame. I'll ask for some peace in the hall, or you can discuss things in the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u6	I do not know the extent to which my colleague thought this through, but de facto if his amendment were to be applied, it would result in them being mainly stabilized - forgive me for the word - papaláši na Police prezidia, the regional directors and deputy officers in the offices will be stabilized. 'Cause how else am I supposed to explain his proposal when he wants to give everyone every five years, everyone, everyone, a donation of money in the amount of monthly income? So, as a result, the police officer in direct service on the street, and the minister will fill me in on how much monthly income is in the fourth or fifth grade... Twenty thousand? Give or take? So this cop will have three or four times less than the deputy. So, perhaps, through Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Ondráček who he wants to stabilise with his money donation - a papal in the leadership of the police? I don't. I want to stabilize the rank-and-line cops that are on those streets and who, if we don't take any precautions, will leave the police, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! It is often said here, and in this we agree with our colleague Ondráček that it is important to stabilize everyone and not just someone. I don't know why the opposite is suggested here. And I'm not worried - I don't know if my colleague Ondráček has it - but I'm not worried about the undersecretaries, the directors, or anyone from the Police Presidium running away from the police. No, no, no. They'll stay there. So again, the question is, because some members on the committee from the government coalition supported Mr Ondráček's proposal - do you want to stabilize the papaláš? Or do you want to stabilize ordinary cops? For the police on the street, this form of colleague Ondráček would be a mockery. I still can't forgive one comment about the so-called "lifting" proposal. The risk premium, it's the special supplement. I don't think it's going anywhere because it's not going to improve the current situation. It is a non-systemic step and has a significant impact on the state budget. For all who today have the highest risk premium of 6,000, that will mean they will have 10,000 in the future. I'm so happy for them, I'm happy for them, it's okay. But this measure will have a significant impact. Today we have some 62,000 security forces. Considering that 20 grand is paid the highest possible risk premium, we get to almost one billion each year. You know, I'd like the highest possible risk premium for some cops who actually serve as part of a security detail like this. And here I think it's a little weird that those who determine these risk surcharges don't really distinguish the risks that these people are exposed to. Really, when I compare someone who guarantees the protection of official buildings that are really important in terms of the terminology for protecting the interests of the state, and someone who sits in an office on some, in quotation marks, forgive me for the comparison, the district department, so how is it possible that these people have the same risk premium? That's not fair. And again, this is a matter that doesn't have to be dealt with by law at all, which should be dealt with under the law. We don't always want to open a service law. I will repeat myself, but repetition is the mother of wisdom. Although it might seem that this bill proposal pursues the very godly objectives, the correction of iniquities and the strengthening of motivation for the service of the security forces, unfortunately it is the opposite. A few months before the election, we are witnessing a struggle for the votes of the security forces and their families through benefits that are only seeming and illusory. After studying the amendment, it must not only occur to police officers that it will in no way lead to greater stabilization and attractiveness of police work. On the contrary, they will soon find that it is a threat to them, because they will not receive more money in the end, and at the same time there will be more burdensome administration instead of supervising security in our streets. Experienced, but unfortunately, demotivated policemen certainly do not deserve such conduct and threaten to actually leave. If the Minister of Interior Chovanec were more concerned with securing material conditions for police work than with the total destruction of the Department of Asylum and Migration Policy of the Ministry of Interior, he might also do better. I'm kind of wondering what's going on with the--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u7	I'll cut you off for a second, Madame. I have a feeling there are loud conversations going on in this room. If there's anything you need to discuss, go to the lobby and don't disturb the lady.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. On this occasion, I think that, as the Chamber of Deputies, we should also be fair from Minister Chovanec and other representatives of the Government to learn about the quotas. Since this government has said that no quotas in the context of the refugee crisis - so, world, wonder, three and a half years - will not be accepted, but some of us know what Dublin III means, and that this possibility, Minister, will still be there as of September 2017, the quotas of non-quotas, the government's resolution not to act by the government. [[10.20 hours]] I think this has something to do with the security situation, it has something to do with the number of cops we're supposed to have or what you want to have that you can't recruit. And why you can't recruit them, that's what I'm telling you and my colleagues here in my performance. You can't recruit them because you can't motivate them. You can't even motivate them with the recruitment fee, but you can't keep those who can do something in the congregations and who want to continue serving the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, in three and a half years, the entire government and the Home Secretary have done little for the security forces. Warehouses are empty, you can't find ballistic protection, you can't find uniforms, you can't find shoes. When I told the minister here if you wouldn't want to go in police, not canads for at least a week, ideally a month, but shoes, he wouldn't respond. I think there's definitely gonna be some co-workers from the police who like to borrow these shoes to try it out. Really, Mr. Secretary, the equipment, the clothes are crappy! What you promised, and those cops heard it, we all heard it in the media shows, whether it was after Uhersky Brod or on other occasions, you unfortunately didn't keep anything from the point of view of their equipment to the police. That - and I don't want to remind you here, I don't like how tabloid this thing is, how many people say it and who's doing it all. But if it wouldn't be more effective than to test the police of various fast BMWs to actually have the equipment that you as Home Secretary are supposed to guarantee them and ensure for the safe performance of their service. This government has not been able to take one major step during its entire operation, leading to the stabilisation of the security forces, especially the police. We haven't been able to adequately equip the first-time patrols! I've already talked about unnamed company shoes, as well as bulletproof vests, which we mentioned here with our colleague Ondráček last time, ballistic shields and so on. You failed, Minister, to stabilize the police or staff. The base in Prague, when police officers from other regions must be withdrawn, where they are missing, and when an extraordinary event occurs, as I have already said here, you turn to the Minister of Defence to help you soldiers, and we know cases not only from Vrbětice. You're failing to buy and change uniforms. When was the last time you were in Bartholomew's warehouse? You know it's completely empty in there? There's nothing there? And other things like the badge of the criminal police and the investigation. There was such a good tender that it didn't even keep the color on these marks! But we succeeded in having the most police generals in the post-November and possibly in pre-November history. Congratulations, Minister! We can wallpaper with generals! But what's the point of those people on the street? What is this for the citizens of the Czech Republic? Does anyone care if anyone's got a line? No, those people want cops on the streets, cops who are well paid, paid better than they do in some Prague supermarket, and that the Ministry of the Interior department takes care of so that even they are not at risk on their lives! So really the Czech Republic has the most generals in pre-November and post-November history. Plus, dressed in decent leather jackets or those uniforms that I see, I have to close my eyes so I don't go blind, because the gold that glitters on them is really tacky. The government has not submitted any system solutions, and the amendment to the Service Act is such a wasted opportunity. Personally, I wish that this was not the case and that we should at least take advantage of this opportunity, because the elections will mean further delay before the new government gets up and think about what to do with the personnel situation in the security forces. And how does this government, Mr. Interior Minister Chovanec and Police President Tuhý stabilize the police for the future? I don't know which one of you had the opportunity to get to know the concept of the Police of the Czech Republic by 2020, which was approved by the government this week, but you should definitely get to know it, or play the news reports when some of us commented on it. Because what you read in it is alarming. Among other things, and now for attention, you will learn which way the Czech Republic will lead in the fight against terrorism. I quote: "It will allow us, among other things, to face more effectively new security threats such as terrorism," said the Minister of Interior Chovanec on the 2020 police project and presented his intention to enrich the police with new police officers. This government of ČSSD, YES, KDU-ČSL please, according to this concept, wants to open the door to applicants without education, or plan to reduce the demands for education, when it would be possible to accept people without graduation. You hear me well! Police, city officers must have a graduation, but the Police of the Czech Republic won't have to! This government wants to reduce the eligibility of the service consisting in reducing health and physical fitness, psychological fitness, and even accepting foreign nationals, i.e. people without Czech citizenship! So, Minister, do you want to fight terrorism? Is this the right way for the Czech Republic to fight terrorism? Is this supposed to be some kind of inclusion in the Police of the Czech Republic? Maybe the government could start recruiting at the detention centers in Greece and Italy, since the quotas didn't work anymore, Minister! You can't be serious, really. Please pull yourself together and start doing something real for the security situation in the Czech Republic. Not what you've been doing here for almost four years. I ask all colleagues and colleagues to support my amendments, to support a stabilisation contribution that will not bankrupt our budget, to sit in the position of Finance Minister, who will, but to ensure stabilisation and security in the Czech Republic and to stabilise the security forces, that they will not leave the most experienced after a few years of service. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u9	Thank you, Madame. Now, Mr Ondráček's factual remark, then Mr Schwarz's factual remark, will come with priority rights, Minister Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u10	Thank you. Since I have been appointed as a colleague several times and not all of you may have studied the differences between the amendments in terms of stabilization, because they are quite similar, and words have fallen on the pay of the papals, so believe me that is not the case. This is not the case, because the purpose of the amendment that is here and which I am proposing is that there are no differences between who is who the police officer is. They would have called you so-called. The papalas were rewarded even in the case of a proposal tabled by the colleague, because it only provides that the successful performance of the service. But what is a successful service? The papáš always has it because the papáš decides about the papáš, so he won't give it. But a police officer on the street could have one or two negative events right before he reaches five years, and then, of course, he wouldn't get the reward after five years of loyalty. I say it's not supposed to make a difference if someone is serving in uniform or without a uniform. It serves this state and lasts 5, 10, 15 years, it has to receive a reward regardless of whether it is in one or another job position. It's just a distinction from a colleague, and you'll decide in your vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u11	I thank Mr Ondráček. Good morning, honourable Members. One more factual point by Mr Bronislav Schwarz and then with priority rights, the Minister. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good morning to all, too. I'm just gonna make a quick quick use of the de facto remark. I would like to remind those who listen that, you know, they are occupations or jobs that cannot be compared to money. I think a cop, if it was 10 years ago, 20 years ago or in the future, always has to be a little bit of a mission in that person. You know, cops only talk about money when it comes to the police just making money, so I don't think it has to be a premonition that it's gonna be a good cop. Maybe, maybe not. So I think, let's not talk about it with all the cops who serve, or those who serve, about going there just for the sake of the money, and telling them we need to give them a raise, that's how we're gonna get them stabilized. Please, I had the opportunity to work there, to run the collectives. Often about 50 percent of the time I was there didn't help by adding money to my colleagues and improving their service, which means increasing the security of the citizens by adding money to the cops. I think it's time for us to have the security to go back to where it is, to have respect, to have a good standing up for our superior, and then the money comes. Believe me, this may be nonsense for some of what I'm saying, but I'm speaking from practice. So please, it's mostly a mission. I don't need to stand up for the minister, he'll stand up for himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, with priority right, Mr. Finance Minister Ivan Pilný, will prepare a colleague Jiří Štětina, who is duly enrolled in the debate. I repeat, we're at the third reading. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a good thing that we are talking about a law designed to regulate the salaries of security forces members, as well as other matters such as pensions, recruitment allowances and risk surcharges. It's all right. On the other hand, as Mrs Černochová has already pointed out here, the law, along with the amendments, is taking such absurd forms, in which, in fact, as she expressed her conviction on those people who actually carry out the service on the streets and elsewhere, there is not much to get. That's the first point. And second point. Again, what Mrs Černochová says is true that this brings quite considerable demands on the state budget. I do not believe that these claims, which should be reflected in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, will not get into the state budget because the state budget has started to be discussed and the Minister of the Interior has already brought over-demands to 15 billion. It is part of a package that currently makes the deficit of 50 billion into a deficit of 150 billion. I note that many of these amendments have not been discussed with the Ministry of Finance at all. That means I'm in a situation where I can clearly see that these claims will eventually be reflected in the increased demands of the Ministry of the Interior on the state budget, and they're already there in 15 billion. I don't know if they're included. This concerns a number of amendments. I do not know what the procedure will look like, but I definitely want the A1 and A2 amendments to be voted separately because they are putting pressure on the state budget. This applies, of course, to all the proposals that are in point B, to Mrs Černochová's proposals, and this also applies to the proposal that is under the letter F1, which I will also want to vote separately. The demands, we can't do it like that, we're gonna draw some money and then we're gonna go enforce it on the state budget. This is an absurd situation and we really can't do this because we're just cheating on these people! I know this budget isn't just political like all budgets, but it's also electoral, but it just can't be done like that. I simply cannot agree with those proposals that have no impact on the state budget at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u15	Thank you, Minister of Finance, and we will continue. In fact, Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u16	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I would consider the speech of the Minister of Finance to be very reasonable if he did this at the beginning of the parliamentary term and if, both now and, of course, the previous Minister of Finance also voted accordingly on the socialist proposals that actually indebted our country to the future. But you, Minister of Finance, have passed these laws for three years, you and your movement. You voted for them, you voted for the laws that irresponsiblely created the state budget deficit in times of abundance. It was you who raised your hands for this, and now you're figuring out what kind of problem the state budget, state finances, and our economy got our company into. You woke up at the end of your term, and I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u17	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. I will ask my colleague for Štětina patience because, with the factual remark of Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u18	Good day, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, Mr Vice-President. I have listened carefully to the report by my colleague, Mr Černochová, and I must say that I would like to sign up for many things. But there's one thing I'm missing. I remember Topolánkův's government, Nečasův' government, when there were large demonstrations of police officers, and I missed the fact that in these years they fell nominally - nominally, not really! - the salaries of these people in the armed forces. I remember well the demonstration that was during this period, when about 40,000 armed forces took part, and this was what I was missing because there was the beginning of the decline, and I am convinced that the funds have now settled, the finances for these armed forces have settled. And I'm not questioning what you said, but it would be good for fairness to say the same thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u19	Thank you. Now two further factual points, first Mr Faltýnek, then Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u20	Thank you. I would just like to respond briefly - a good day - to the performance of Michal Kučera and to remind you that his finance minister created a debt of CZK 680 billion in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u21	Now, Mrs Černochová, also with a point of fact. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u22	Maybe my colleague Zavadil was in those squares with the unionists. I told you, I'm fascinated by the way the current vassal unionists are with this government coalition. And I demonstrated it here on the cases we've been through on the Security Committee. And one more thing through the Vice-President. Mr. Colleague, if you don't know that police officers, generally members of the security and armed forces, are not allowed to demonstrate, for God's sake, what have you been doing in those unions for so many years? They're forbidden by law. [[Objection from the diaper that they can't strike.]] But they can't demonstrate that they're walking the streets. They can demonstrate by writing a petition, expressing some disapproval. That's why they actually have union organizations. But these union organizations aren't defending them at all! These trade unions, as has been clearly said here, are in no way defending any rights that police officers can touch as part of their stabilisation allowance. If their deputy tells the Security Committee that there wouldn't be any money for it, I logically asked if he was the Home Secretary or the Finance Minister. And the fact that a colleague here criticizes Topolánkův or Nečasův' government - it has been said here several times, unfortunately, it was difficult to look for funds during the economic crisis. You've been in charge here for four years. And the fact that you're raising somebody's salaries four months before the end of the term is the culmination of populism. Really.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u23	Well, thank you for keeping the time to make a point. One more factual comment by Mr Václav Votava. Štětina's been patient. He's been through a lot in his life. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'd like to join my colleague, Černochová. I'm not an expert on the police, of course. But you need to sweep your way through the President in front of your own threshold as well. Whoever cut the police's salaries was you when you ruled. And you brought chaos and uncertainty into the police force. So here's the beginning, too. And you're complaining about today's condition that you started.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u25	Thank you. Mrs Černochová, once again, makes a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u26	Thank you. I don't know what period my previous speaker means. You mean grosstapo? You mean the period when the Home Secretary controlled the police under the ČSSD Mr. Gross? May the earth be light upon him. Is that what you're bragging about, colleague? With this part of our revolutionary history, which you were very prominent actors? Until now, the police haven't recovered from the way Stanislav Gross ran the police. And as it was said last time, no other government had as many charged cops and police officers in custody as your government has. So you guys think about who's supposed to clean up what's in front of them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. And colleague Štětina has come, he can finally speak in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u28	Hello. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I would like to remind you that the third reading is not open to discussion, and I will follow it, my fellow Members and colleagues. Of course, I agree with my previous speakers, with all those who simply had a general debate, etc. - they all have a point. But, folks, I'd like to finally have a law that's been mentioned long enough to have a positive impact on the police, on all the armed forces. So when I have carefully studied all the amendments, I have found that there are most good things in every amendment. But I also found out, and now I am very happy to follow up on my colleague, Černochová, by means of you, that I was very surprised that the so-called trade unions did not agree with the benefits or the extras that are, I don't know, stabilizing or destabilizing, it doesn't really matter. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not playing any political cards here, I'm not running anymore, I promise. But I would really like this law to be adopted in the wording of all the amendments that are there. I think that these amendments, including those relating to the service. This is the only amendment that will cost nothing, and, on the contrary, it would bring 457 times several hundred thousand to the state budget when the two are adopted, that is, the ceiling and taxation. And it doesn't concern those members who are on the street, who are watching, who arrange so-called sports matches, who aren't paid for. That only applies to those who are in high positions. And that was the point of my two amendments. In conclusion, I would like us to finally adopt this law in the wording of all the amendments, because I have not found anything in any of them that bothers me. But I really have to finish my short speech here, because I promised, and I mostly keep my words, you see, I don't have any notes written from anyone, so I would like this law to be passed today in the wording of all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u29	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin. There is another factual point, Mr Petr Kořenko. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I have the advantage of sitting here for the first term and tracking public resources. So I'll read you a message from 8. 12. 2010. On Tuesday evening, the government approved a set of regulations which amend the salary rates in the state and public sectors. After the meeting, Prime Minister Petr Nečas and Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Jaromír Drábek told journalists. Reduction of the tariff salaries of security forces by 10 percent, i.e. an average of CZK 2,507 and soldiers by less CZK 1 710. Is that how you took care of our people's safety?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u31	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová's factual comment. [[Mrs Černochová, off the microphone, says that it is not factual.]] Not factual, proper. You can, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to respond briefly to Dr Štětina, a colleague of Mr Štětina. All the amendments that are in that system cannot be approved. Because some amendments, my colleague, are mutually exclusive. So you can't accept them all. To what was said here by another colleague, my previous speaker. But I'm not pretending that in those years 2010 to 2013, belts had to be tightened in this state. There was an economic crisis. You all know that. And the fact that the Czech Republic has maintained it in a way that the economy is going up and now we are at a time of boom, when you, at the time of the boom, are not able to generate funds, spend meaningfully, eat through them, invest them in completely meaningless projects, whether I can speak of defence, or I can talk about the interior, when instead of triggering acquisition processes in the time of the economic boom, in order to amuse the police, amuse the army, so you do nothing. If we had an opportunity like yours, we could use it. You, on the contrary, were in those years, and the colleague was not here, but his other colleagues, from 2010 to 2013, so you did not support us in matters where we tried to solve the stabilisation of the Czech Republic. On the contrary, this House and the entire ODS have been trying to do everything in their power to achieve something together in matters of security, our country's defence. It's not about any populism at all. No one can blame me for not trying...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u33	I understand, Madame. I'm gonna ask my colleagues for some peace. If we want to negotiate this point before 11:00...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u34	Mr. Colleague, if you could just go ahead and...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u35	I'll give you my word right away, Madame, back, but first I'll ask my colleagues for some peace. If they're discussing something else, it's basically in the foyer. Please note that at 11 o'clock, there is a fixed point, and I will not interrupt the point at the time of the vote. That means I'd have to interrupt this point before 11 o'clock. So please act like we have something to discuss today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u36	I'll be done, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u37	No, one more time. If you want me to name those who are noisy around here, I'll do it in protocol. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'll try to be brief. So it really seems to me like an incredible Pharisee from my colleagues when I'm hearing here how in a time of economic crisis the police didn't go up to pay. They didn't. Now, for the fourth year, you, the fourth year in which the economic situation is several times better, have our support, support for the opposition to increase this wage for members of the armed and security forces, but also teachers or doctors, and you cannot use it. You're gonna waste your time here. What Minister of Finance Pilný said here shouldn't fit in here. You probably talked, so you didn't register it, but here he actually confirmed what I'm saying for the third time, for the fourth time in the discussion of this point, that all those measures that will result from the adoption of this standard are not covered and secured in the budget. The Minister of Finance has also made it very clear. They're not. Why are you building airlocks here? Why are you promising these people something that you didn't even bother to put one crown in your budget? What's all this bullshit? For this reason, I propose - and we will still make it, we are still able to discuss this bill before the elections, and I will do everything in my power to have this standard discussed, because I think that policemen deserve a new law of service, but not in this form, not with this opinion of the Minister of Finance. So for this reason, I propose a procedural proposal to return this standard to second reading, so that the members of this government coalition and the new finance minister will sit down and add funds to the budget. Otherwise, we lie to each other in our pockets, blaming the public and blaming all police officers, generally security forces, so police officers, firemen, customs officers, and not telling them the truth. So I'm making this procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u39	So, we are in a situation of a procedural proposal, although it is a proposal that may fall at the third reading in the debate. So I'm asking if you want to vote him as procedural right now, or I'll have Minister Pilný perform. [[Voices on the right: now!]] If it is now, of course I will. [[Member Černochová: After the debate.]] After the debate, okay. So it is a proper proposal under the Rules of Procedure Act, I think § 95 para. 2, I'm not looking at the law, but I'm going to let it go like this. Minister Pilný has a point of fact. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just two brief comments. Firstly, it is not true that we have not added during this parliamentary term. We added to teachers, nurses, social services workers, etc. So it's not true that we didn't solve this problem. All we need to do is look at what happened in that time in three years of government. That's the first thing. Two. I never said those requirements weren't covered in the state budget. I just don't know, because I wasn't dealt with. The state budget is in the course of construction and these requirements have simply not been discussed with me, nor have they been discussed with the previous finance minister before we started talking about this law. So, basically, I have no problems with what my colleague Černochová is proposing, because in the meantime, we can really talk about the extent to which it is realistic to cover these requirements either from the current budget of the Ministry of the Interior or from an increase in the state budget. I'm not saying the money's not there, but no one's been talking to me about it, not even my predecessor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u41	Thank you to Minister Ivan Pilný. One more point in fact, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u42	I thank the Minister for his constructive approach. Although this government has formally raised funds for some professions, there have been beautiful press conferences on how they will be better off now, but the practice, Minister, is unfortunately different. When you proposed to raise salaries for local authorities, you did not increase those salaries in fact, because you did not give the municipalities more money to do so, so that the funds were taken from personal appreciation, from other wage costs. It's the same with educators. I happened to be at an event yesterday when I talked to some educators and said: well, the increase in our salaries is that I have a smaller budget for people to pay, because we physically didn't get the funds into our pseudo-small budgets. So if this is a government salary increase, don't get mad at me, but it's not. The minimum of people who actually carry more money on their payroll. But thank you for the constructive proposal, the approach, the support of my proposal. I really guarantee you for yourself and for the ODS that if you prove that there is a financial cover for this, we will not block that law. We don't want to block a law that really is supposed to be some sort of standard that will help to improve the security situation, but not in this way, not in this way, when here populistly ahead of each other. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u43	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u44	I'd like to make a small request here, through you, to my colleague, Černochová. Can he please tell us in specific amounts when we are having this debate about how much their two governments have paid the police in two terms? Let us compare this with raising salaries in this parliamentary term, my colleague, through Mr President. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u45	Thank you, of course, for the speech of the ANO Club Chairman, the reaction of the ODS Club President has provoked, so we will have a new factual comment. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u46	I have no problem with this request, but you have been in the Treasury for almost four years, virtually. Your movements, and those numbers are definitely available. Let's ask. How are we supposed to make it out of the opposition if the data is in the Treasury? Let's ask the finance minister to put it here. There's no problem. Let's talk about the economic context that was at the time. You're touching the request until 2006, many of us weren't here, I wasn't here either, so it's new information for me, too. You were a Social Democrat back then, I was a Civil Democrat back then and today, so that's totally fine. [[Fun, applause in ODS benches.]] I don't know what the difference is. I don't see the connection, I really don't see the connection to what we're discussing, what was in 2006. My colleague came forward and responded to the speech by the Minister of Finance, who honestly admitted that the Ministry of the Interior had not consulted him and that he was unable to say that it was definitely there. Because if that's not the case, then who can say that the deal is made? She proposed a procedural proposal, that's all. The finance minister said he didn't have a problem with it. So far, I have considered the debate correct and factual, because if there's anything populism, and I'm not saying that it is, then approve something without financial cover. We understand each other. And it doesn't matter if it's the salaries in this case or something else. We can approve any purchases, e.g. real estate, if you don't put budgetary measures on it, you've only taken half a step and that's it. But I have no problem, and so can I, Minister of Finance, two club presidents already have this request, and if you tell your employees to give them this task, so maybe all the members of the budget and security committee get it, I don't have a problem with that. It's in the past, the data exists, and we can argue about interpretation, but the numbers will be clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Faltýnek's point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u48	Typical answer of a long-term classical policy. [[Fun in the right side of the hall.]] Thank you for this answer. But why did I come up with an issue that I don't understand at all, and I didn't want to do it. Colleagues Černochová has been talking for quite a while about the fact that this government has done nothing for the police, that they do not have shoes, vests, money, salaries, nothing. So I am just asking, what have your two governments, my fellow Member through Mr President, done for those police officers, including a specific increase in salaries in specific amounts? The average amount per month, per year, never mind. If you don't know, and you don't remember, it's nice that we asked the Minister of Finance to prepare it for us next time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u49	Thank you. And I have two more factual remarks from Mr Stanjura and Mr Blažek, but because you're... you're gonna make it, okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u50	I'll make it. I'm not ashamed of being a politician of the classic political party. I'm proud to claim it. But you've been in politics longer than I have, Mr. Chairman. That's all I wanted to say. So if you're ashamed of being in politics for a long time, then say it and don't. That's all. And it's really lovely: "I don't understand it at all, but it's kind of weird. I don't know anything about it, but what did you guys do?" So first learn something about it, find out something, and then get on with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-005-273.u51	Thank you. And I interrupt item 273, third reading of the government bill amending Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the service of members of the Security Councils, as amended, according to House press 1024, at third reading, with the fact that we are still in the debate at third reading, that is, there is a factual comment by Mr Blažek as an application and we do not have the final words of the rapporteur when the rapporteur clearly wanted to speak. So in this respect, there is nothing left to do but respect the House of Deputies' resolution that I am putting this interruption on a mountain of individual bills that have been proposed, and we will have to decide on it after discussing paragraph 277, which is firmly placed at eleven o'clock.
