ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u1	282. Information of the Government on the procedure in the case of disadvantageous privatisation of OKD We have interrupted the debate on this point on 10 January 2017 and the general debate has been interrupted. Mr Bohuslav Sobotka should take the position of Prime Minister at the rapporteur's table, who, unfortunately, apologizes for today's meeting, and Mr Marek Černoch is sorry today for the illness and will be represented by Mrs Hnyková as rapporteur. We will therefore continue the interrupted general debate, in which I record several applications. Mr Černoch is the first to sign up, but he cannot appear due to illness. Next up, Mr Grebeníček, Mrs Lorencová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what was said here last week about the serious problems of the OKD was at least interesting. Yes, it is not only about the responsibility of those who tunneled the mines, but also perhaps, or perhaps primarily about the co-responsibility of those who decided who had taken away the terrain to lose property and legal claims and rights. And so I quite understand those of you who have expressed your opinion that Prime Minister Sobotka should no longer be a witness in the case, but rather he should sit on the bench of the defendants. So I will now allow myself to find out in a concentrated way what led me to this position. [[9.40 hours]] In 2014, some media reported that the government sold the state share of OKD in 2004 at 4 billion even though it was worth more than twice the price. Furthermore, the media said that despite the fact that this error could still be corrected, the Ministry of Finance did nothing and covered everything. The young front published today that after many months of searching, new findings have come to the attention of the current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. As is known, he does not claim the key responsibility of the Minister of Finance and President of the Presidium National Property Fund. Contrary to proven and substantiated facts, they now claim that everything was okay in this tunnel privatisation and that the ridiculous privatisation price was the right price. Even after he submitted and signed a privatisation contract to the government without a tender, which was in fact a tunnel to the state's share of OKD assets, then Minister of Finance Bohuslav Sobotka could correct his gross failure. He could have averted the multi-billion-dollar damage caused by state property. But he refused to do it. From the information published, it is clear that the European Commission raised the following question to the Ministry of Finance - I quote: Karbon Invest made an offer to buy shares from minority shareholders, which indicated that the market value of OKD is equal to 22.5 billion. The value of the privatised state share could be CZK 10 billion against CZK 4.1 billion for which this share was sold. The question of the European Commission was: How do you justify such a great difference between prices? However, the Ministry of Finance, led by Bohuslav Sobotka, did not start to examine privatisation even after such a clear initiative, and did not even provide the necessary full information to Brussels. First of all, the fact that the State forgot to appreciate two dozen subsidiaries of OKD and other real estate when selling mines and that it was because of these negligence omissions or criminal distortions of the actual extent of OKD assets that the privatisation price was so ridiculously low. What explanation does the Prime Minister have for his then inaction and for the failure of the Ministry of Finance? It's laconic. I did not process the opinion for the European Commission in the Ministry, I do not know how it was dealt with. That's a scandalous statement! We are therefore to believe that the privatisation case, which was a real scandal from the very beginning, when the then finance minister Sobotka pushed it to the government and signed it, went again completely beyond it, when it was possible at least additionally, and even with the assistance of the European Commission to at least partially correct the tunnel and for the state to get lost funds at least in the order of billions. According to the current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, he did not sign the position sent to the European Commission, but his deputy, Eduard Janota. And it is already known to bear witness to the degree of responsibility of Bohuslav Sobotka, whether the minister was merely a completely incompetent and uninformed person in a responsible place, or a person fully understood by what was happening. One thing is still undoubtedly. A misleading opinion on doubts about the privatisation of OKD was sent to the European Commission with the header Mgr Bohuslav Sobotka, First Deputy Prime Minister. Yes, the current Prime Minister has always had and has a remarkably poor memory in some extremely serious cases for which he has a personal functional and political responsibility. And every time it comes down to the fact that, as a responsible official of the state and constitutional officer, he should admit and assume responsibility for his own decisions and for the particularly serious decision of the office that he was managing, according to his own words, he didn't know anything, he didn't control anything, and he didn't actually control anything. I will remind at least one of the key maneuvers by which Bohuslav Sobotka helped to ensure that the multibillion-dollar state participation in OKD is without a tender procedure and at a price more than ridiculous transferred to those who ultimately, as we already know, did not mean to do business properly, but to speculate with the acquired property, flee to tax havens and tunnel it last in the form of dividends paid on debt. In its memorandum, some requested expertise did not recommend concluding a contract for the sale of OKD to Penta or to Karbon Invest because of the danger of public aid. Yes, the prosecution states this in a pending trial. As the press reported, Minister Sobotka ignored this warning and, on 26 March 2004, ordered the then head of the National Property Fund, Jan Juchelek, to conclude a contract for the sale of shares with Karbon Invest for only CZK 2.25 billion. I mean, the way the finance minister pushed it over and had it approved by the government three days earlier. At that time, the Office for the Protection of Competition was opposed to the scandalous action of Minister Sobotka and the wrong government decision, but only alibistically, as it demanded that the price be increased to just 3.4 billion. However, this did not eliminate the risk that privatisation would be regarded as unlawful aid to the State chosen by the privatizers. The OKD action states that Zdeněk Bakala was entrusted to Karbon Invest by increasing the purchase price for the share of shares from 3.4 billion to 4 billion. The government, which was obliged to properly and responsibly inform the Minister of Finance Sobotka, eventually approved the sale for 4.1 billion. Rudolf Doucha's expert, who prepared an assessment for VOX Consult appreciating the state interest of CZK 2.8 billion, and two former senior officials of the National Property Fund who prepared privatisation, was last served before the court. The then finance minister Sobotka, who submitted a defective contract to the government as a responsible person with legal training, said to the police: If I had known that the opinion was tinkling, I would not have submitted a proposal to the government to sell the OKD. But let us try to imagine that, in the place of Bohuslav Sobotka, there would be someone more responsible then, that the Minister of Finance would be responsible for privatizing and preparing the contract, who is not deprived of his right or equipped with other disqualifying prerequisites and who performs his functions properly. Can it even be imagined that such a minister would admit that the state's multibillion-dollar assets would be valued at one-tenth or even one-twenty of its true value? And can it be imagined that the responsible minister would bypass the obligation to tender? And can it be imagined when there is a scandal and the European Commission is also interested in such a finance minister not responding, noticing anything, not wanting to do anything, and instead of fulfilling his duties and proper management and control, he let his officials deceive the European Commission and do nothing to repair the damage? [[9.50 hours]] The former Minister of Finance Bohuslav Sobotka said he wanted to sell the state's share of OKD at any cost because he was afraid of high unemployment rates in the Moravian-Silesian region, the decline in mining activities and disputes between shareholders. They even said that trade unions were interested in the government not selling its share to anyone other than Karbon Invest. At least the current prime minister testified to the anti-corruption police in October 2011. In fact, investigators were concerned with the suspicion that in privatization someone had caused many billions of dollars of damage to the state. Bohuslav Sobotka was the Minister of Finance in 2004, who was responsible for presenting relevant materials to the government. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the result of the privatisation. The mine tunnel and apartments of the Ostrava-Carvin mines were extremely profitable for those who fled to tax havens. Tens of billions have flown away in just ten years, and there are no reserves left, but even billions of debts. And the fear for jobs that the former Minister of Finance has wielded in front of the police is quite real today. For ten years, the costs of strange privatisation have been paid by tens of thousands of tenants of OKD flats and the whole of North Moravia and Silesia by a decline in purchasing capacity. Damages from the looted business and severance payments to the miners are to be paid by the state. Now I come to what I have already indicated at the outset. The current prime minister and former responsible finance minister Bohuslav Sobotka is convicted of professional and human failure, of fatal negligence and irresponsibleness, unless it is directly from the deliberate aid of those who grubbed up the state's share of OKD and after privatisation of the whole business and housing fund, nobody but Bohuslav Sobotka himself. The same Bohuslav Sobotka, who now claims as Prime Minister that the sale of the state enterprise OKD, which he prepared and presented to the government, was completely fine and that 4 billion. were the price appropriate, he said at his time: The decisive moment in terms of privatization of OKD comes 20 years ago, in 1996. It was at the end of Klausův' first reign, and it is a series of following steps. The State Fund of National Property requested OKD management of the Minister of Skalický's approval to reduce the capital of OKD by 3.5 billion. koruna, i.e. from the original 27 billion. approximately 24 billion. Crowns. At that time, Minister Skalickýý gave his consent to a reduction in capital 20 years ago on 28 May 1996 - for interest's sake, it was only a month before the demise of the Ministry of National Property Administration and its privatisation. As a reason for the reduction of the core capital, it was stated that the company's assets were significantly reduced as a result of the continued decline in mining. In June, the general meeting of OKD, where the state had a tight majority at that time, decided to implement this reduction in capital. Ladies and gentlemen, in the extract from the OKD Commercial Register, you will find the following entry: By decision of the general meeting of the company of 7. 6. 1996 decided to reduce the company's capital to 24 billion. 300 miles. Thus, now Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, to be said by the public, is completely dumping himself in violation of his alibi claims that they were 4 billion in 2004. For the state interest in OKD and for 45 thousand OKD flats the price corresponding to OKD admits that he knew and knew very well that OKD was already valued at 24 billion in 1996. 300 miles. Crowns. We know that in just ten years after privatization, the Zdeněk Bakala group managed to get out of OKD according to sober estimates to 60 billion. And this is still just about the company, and not about tens of thousands of flats and land and non-residential premises, which have been donated free of charge to privatizers and which are now making an annual profit in the order of at least 1 billion. Crowns. Yes, in the north of Bohemia it was fixed and contracts and subsidies were won by the chosen. Local Social Democrats, including ex-Deputy Vaňhová, are also suspected to be involved in crime. Prime Minister Sobotka commented for the media that this is an old issue and that it concerns only regions, and he read to his locals that they may have been involved in this by working with the ODS. On this point, I can say in connection with the case that we are discussing today, that I understand the premier's gratitude over the fact that OKD's tunneling of state property and jobs and flats has already been stepped on under the ODS and ODA parties. Former Governor Tošenovský, later MEP for the ODS, earned little in connection with the work in the OKD authority. koneckonců all, the lobbyist and then the Euro MP Telička worked for the Zdeněk Bakala Group and worked in a particular position for a reward not negligible. Finally, the Prime Minister's friend and his legal services provided services to a counterparty of the state. They say the target crowns the work, says the Latin proverb. And by privatizing the OKD and housing fund, he led to the goal, i.e. into the hands of speculators around Karbon Invest and Zdeněk Bakala's party, the then Minister of Finance and Vice-President of the Social Democratic Party led by Bohumil Sobotka. And not just that. The current Prime Minister has repeatedly deceived and deceived citizens. He didn't act as much as he could and should have. After all, before the elections that brought him into the current chair, he promised that the state would strongly advocate the interests of the victims. We all know the outcome. The Prime Minister, who had seriously compromised himself politically and failed professionally in privatizing the state's share of OKD, did not lift a finger to correct the misconduct of the wrong privatisation contract and privatisation. He did not lift a finger so that OKD tenants could gain their rights and what the leaders of social democracy, politicians like Luboš Zaorálek and Bohuslav Sobotka, once promised and what Minister of Finance Sobotka was supposed to guard in the privatisation agreement. Today we can only observe how one of the decisive figures of the fatal privatization of OKD, the former Minister of Finance, the Chairman of the ČSSD and the current government, defends their own skin. As he defends the indefensible, he is really helping those who tunneled OKD. How he tells us that he didn't know anything and that he made the right decision. [[10.00 hours]] The rendered share of OKD and OKD flats, which earn the dubious privatizers and their successors tens of billions that have flowed from OKD, and taxes that have not been paid in the Czech Republic, are the result. North Moravia and Silesia and the whole republic pay hard and will still pay for incompetence, blindness, cowardice and alibiism of such people as the current Prime Minister! What are the Prime Minister's words worth? What credibility, political, and professional qualifications does he actually have, and can a person who so shamefully fails? And not once, but repeatedly and constantly! What confidence can citizens have with the Prime Minister, who, together with his government, has done nothing to remedy the damage caused by his office and decision making in the capacity of the Finance Minister, and who still claims, in the face of disastrous consequences, that everything was okay? No, people like that shouldn't be in executives. Especially not as Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u3	Thank you, too. I note Mr Fiedler's factual remark. First of all, the Member's factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u4	First, I will respond briefly to the previous speaker. My colleague Grebeníček here said that the Prime Minister is defending the undefensible. I'm afraid he's succeeding, the defense. That it's not that he's defending the indefensible, that he's quite successful in doing so far. even by simply not taking part in it, that he disowns it. And that is why I have made a point of fact, which I wanted to respond to the opening words of actually the management meeting of Vice-President Bartošek. Colleagues and colleagues, consider whether this discussion is in this situation, when the Prime Minister of the Government, who is concerned with this point, is present for the government - Minister Herman knows that I am saying this out of joke - only the Minister for the Present is present so that we can sit down, because there is no Minister of Industry and Trade who was here at the beginning, if such a discussion is meaningful. I don't think he does. I am putting forward a procedural proposal to interrupt this item in the presence of the Prime Minister and at least some other members of the government, but above all the Prime Minister. Decide on it in the vote whether it has it or, there's no point if you want to or don't want to continue. I don't think there's any point. So I'm putting a procedural motion to interrupt this point into the presence of the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u5	It's a procedural proposal. [[Voices from the diaper.]] Okay, there's a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u6	Good morning, esteemed colleagues. I have to give my colleague the truth, because if you look at those shamefully empty government benches, that certainly doesn't suggest that someone in this government would be interested in solving one of the biggest problems in the modern history of this republic, because there is no other way to talk about it. Where's the Prime Minister? I understand she doesn't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u7	I am sorry, Mr Member, but this is not a debate. Put a counterclaim against a proposal that is procedural.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u8	I'm sorry, I'm putting this counterproposal on the basis of an agreement with my colleagues to interrupt this point by next Wednesday, sorry, by Wednesday 1. 2nd at 14. 30 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u9	Thank you for clarifying your procedural proposal. I'm filing a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you out and ask you to log in to the system. I presume, Mr. Ambassador, that you would also like to make a procedural proposal, or to clarify yours. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u10	I will simplify the matter of the House. I withdraw my proposal, support my colleague Lank's proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u11	Okay. In that case, we have only one procedural proposal, and that is that we interrupt this point until Wednesday by 1. 2:30 p.m. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 192. 93 Members and Members are registered for proposal 29 against 50. This proposal has not been adopted. In that case, we will continue the debate and Mr Kováčik is reporting with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is the afternoon of the interpelation of Members and Members to the Prime Minister and to the Ministers. When I heard a list of those members of the government apologizing from the afternoon meeting or who, from 13:00 and from that hour, cannot sit here for serious reasons, I am talking about members and members of the government, so I am wondering what our parliamentary democracy can look like and also how it will turn out when those who are to be interviewed and controlled by Members on Thursday afternoon from their work are here to confess how one or more of the problems with which Members come from citizens and regions to deal with, or how they would deal with it, and they instead apologize and work in a different field than the one on which they are supposed to plow now on Thursday, so I am not surprised by those who say that it is necessary to take matters more firmly into the hands of the etc. I'm not the kind of guy who wants to do that, and don't worry, I won't even take a break for a club meeting. After all, the KSČM club has had about three hours of breaks in the last year, which is very few. And two more minutes, yes. We had two minutes and two hours at this meeting. It's true. But then there is a situation that took place yesterday afternoon that some minister is so busy that he can't go to the House, and things are only listed for that moment during the six-month period that has the chance to be here, what will be allowed to be here in the House, which will be allowed to do the duty of sitting in the Chamber of Deputies. And then, when it doesn't work out, it's spreading fire and sulfur, like everyone else, especially those who have a different opinion, they're criminals. Please, nicely, on behalf of the KSČM MEP, I am expressing a loud dissatisfaction with the way in which the ministers of this government, including the Prime Minister, treat the Chamber of Deputies. Personally, I think that the topic of OKD, which includes not only North Moravia, but a number of other similarly affected regions, does not interest the Prime Minister. It's been a couple of times. I say again that if the item is not interested in a properly placed item, a properly reassigned item or, where appropriate, a motion for a resolution, I say again that we have enough signatures in reserve to convene an extraordinary meeting for this matter. I'm not a friend of special meetings. I think that the topics need to be worked out at proper meetings as they come to the Chamber of Deputies. You know me, I repeat it here until I am tired of the fact that the topics are to be discussed in the order of how they come here, unless by chance there is some catastrophic, catastrophic or otherwise necessary matter that should be put forward, and we would be far more effective than constantly translating, delaying or absence from properly negotiating. [[10.10 hours]] I just want to respond to the fact that we are then the object of various ridicules, when we accidentally insist that the opposition's proposals also be discussed in the opposition window, which, by the way, is quite common, because there is always a government proposal, it becomes a mere opposition loophole. Therefore, I ask all of us, especially at the time of the election, to try, if possible, to work a lot of things out, and not just to run various election campaigns. We supported Mr Lank's proposal to move or interrupt until next Wednesday. I would like to add that the Chamber of Deputies politely asks the Prime Minister to actually come and stay here next Wednesday afternoon and answer the questions and doubts and, if necessary, actively vote in favour of the motion for a resolution. Or against him. That's what he says. It's honest, it's decent, and it's, uh, folks, forgive me, it's democratic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u13	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, the President of Sklenák is reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u14	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, let's see what's going on here. What is the point of this point? It is called Information of the Government on the procedure of disadvantageous privatisation in OKD. The Prime Minister submitted this information at the outset. That wasn't today, that was a long time ago. Then there was a debate and he was here. Then the point was not discussed, it was discussed on another day. The Prime Minister was sitting here again. He was excused in advance today, my meeting. But that's not the point, it's not the Prime Minister sitting here. You want to insult some of him, like my colleague Grebeníček here did, from his mouth it was really very interesting to listen. So tell me how much longer you want to talk to this point, let's make a deal. But originally the point, and therefore it was also approved in the House, was filed so that the House wanted to hear information and adopt a resolution. We are discussing this for the third time, next Wednesday we were supposed to do first reading, parliamentary proposals. If he's OKD, we'll be listening to these outbursts for a few hours, and we'll never get anywhere again. So let's say we want to have this debate and we want to adopt a resolution, or we just want to insult the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u15	Thank you. I note Mr Grebeníček's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u16	Unlike the Prime Minister, which is characterised by eel politics, my colleague Sklenák acts directly. I don't feel that I'm insulting the Prime Minister or making up points where I can be steep with him. But we've discovered some serious flaws, some gross errors in the information he's given here. He claimed that he sold the state share of OKD for 4 billion and that it was very lucrative. But we learn that the fact is that it was worth 24 billion plus 300 million. And if we point out that there are gross errors in this government report, then the Minister or Prime Minister here should explain it. But you're not going to explain! You want to clean up important points out of reach, let them talk, let them chat all they want, we're going on! But with you, the whole Republic is going into that ditch. That's serious! And you still don't want to admit it. Everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u17	Thank you. I'm registering two applications with priority rights. First of all, Mr Schwarz, then Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u18	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I want to say the opinion of our club here on the microphone, for the club YES. We would like to continue the debate because we have colleagues who are directly affected by OKD and who know what they are talking about. And we have a resolution prepared to put forward here in order for the House to vote democratically on it. This resolution is specific and includes specific matters. So that's the yes statement for the club. We want to go on, finish, and we don't want to insult anyone as they fell. We just want to put forward a resolution and put an end to the point. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u19	Thank you. Now Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my fundamental disapproval of what Mr Sklenák said. All right, so the Czech Republic will apply that all stealers and some draw. And when we are dealing with quite a major problem of Czech privatization in the 1990s, does that strike you as an inappropriate debate? We've been putting it off since June of last year! You don't even deserve to be treated as polite to a government coalition as the KSČM club does. I really don't! I really don't. Look, we're here to propose an extension, respectively. time limits for the indeterminateness of crimes that occurred in privatisation in the 1990s. The worst crimes of privatization occurred between 1993 and 1997. The worst! So we have actually the last year that the 20-year deadline will come true. You didn't have the will to vote for it! You didn't want to do it! And yet, when you fought for the votes of the electorate in 2013, perhaps everyone in their electoral program had it. So either we talk about this here and the Prime Minister will be here - and don't be mad at me, he wanted the trust of this House. And you think he's supposed to hold her? It may be held before 101 or 111 Members of this House, but it will not hold the trust of citizens. And neither will those who will give him that confidence in the government coalition! Okay, it's your will, but one day they'll evaluate it - by October of this year at the latest - the voters, as you've treated it. You really want to let those stolen billions fail those who stole them from the state? You think it's some kind of crown or a roll at the store? Are you sure this isn't supposed to be explained? Yes, maybe it's hard for the Prime Minister to hear it. Maybe it's even harder to hear from some of the right, because they were there in 1996 to 1998. You don't realize what Klausův' packages were? What happened when Mr. Tošovský's government came in? The ten billion that fell into the banks at once? And you guys really don't care? I don't realize it's some kind of problem that we could sweep under the rug. I don't want it. And if anyone says they don't want it stolen, then let them act like it!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u21	Thank you. We will therefore continue the debate as Members and Members are duly enrolled. Mrs Lorencová will now appear, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have been dealing with the case of OKD, which, of course, directly affects me for many years. I can't even guess how many years now. Because I've come to the floor today, actually, after my previous speakers have already made the essential arguments, I just want to remind myself of a few more. But at the same time I remind you that all that we have heard both from my colleague Josef Hájek, who has a perfect overview and a perfectly prepared speech, and from his colleague from the left, from his colleague Grebeníček, these are things that have basically been published some 12 years ago. Some of them were supposed to be published, but they weren't. [[10.20 hours]] When I made a report on privatization of OKD and privatization of OKD flats, which I reworked several times according to the instructions of the group of reporters, because it seemed constantly not quite okay to them, there were still some concerns that I shouldn't offend anyone, so I redesigned it several times. Finally, from my original few hours, when the already well-known and also media-presented claim that the then governor of the North Moravian Region took three million for his participation in the Supervisory Board, that unfortunately, even colleagues and unions had a representative there, who instead of defending the interests of employees of the OKD, he warmed up his soup there, truth, only for one million or less than one million. Definitely a substantial part of that information was already available. I just don't understand how it's possible that all these years everyone knew what happened to the crime. Everyone knew what was going on around OKD, about privatization of OKD, about what even the residents of North Moravia were going through, when they didn't know how they were going to end up, if they had a roof over their heads tomorrow, because they wouldn't go through Mr. Bakala's constantly increasing rents, the whole thing is 25 years on the table if I simplify it. I just want to remind you who came here to privatize it. Mr. Bakala. Who's Mr. Bakala? Mr. Bakala - an uneducated or uneducated tailor from Opava who emigrated there he finished some school in Canada and came back here to advise us, so he was a consultant with the then President Václav Havel along with a few of course other advisors, but he came to advise on how to grasp the privatisation, how to privatize it all here. He was a translator, an interpreter to those who came from the then admired foreign country, from the West to tell us how privatization should take place. He made an interpreter, for example, in attempts to privatize Litvínov. It wasn't anyone who came and had - he was kind of like Viktor Kožený, but it wasn't anyone who would come and have a lot of money with him that he could go and buy something with. Something as big as the mines were OKD, not at all. It just turned out the way it did. In the meantime, several years have passed, and Mr Bakala has become the owner not only of the OKD mine, but he has also become the owner of some kind of bonus that the governments of that time have generously given him. Since you've sacrificed yourself and privatized OKD, here's an extra one. Exactly the companies that were just here - not a moment ago, but a few days ago, a colleague named Hájek introduced. And as part of that, the apartments were OKD. I'm always very modest when it comes to claiming time on this microphone. I'm gonna make it up to you today, so I'm sorry, everybody. I want to focus now, at least for a while, on privatisation, on privatisation quotes, on OKD flats. To this day, I do not consider it the property of those who privatized it so-called because it was privatized contrary to a normal thinking brain. It just wasn't privatization, it was day-to-day theft, shameless, impertinent theft in broad day-to-day. When I was filming with a member of the then federal government, Tomáš Ježek, he explained to me that they had adopted a resolution under the Federation to prevent what they were afraid of, that means that the apartments would not eventually get some speculator so that in some way those living in them, the apartments, the roof over their heads, would not be deprived of any form. OKD has never, in any form, adopted this regulation as its own. Everyone just looked like it was okay, like the way the apartments were privatized was okay. He really wasn't okay. I would like you from the bottom of my heart to be present with me in the filming where the widow tells you about the soon-dead villain with whom she lived in OKD for many years, for example twenty-thirty years, the man dies, and immediately after OKD there comes someone with a new contract and these widows who have not yet dried up the tears on their face after the loss of a loved one, slip a fixed-term contract, that is to say one year from the date of the signing. I've got letters from women who've been there, I've got them on tape. If any of you are interested in details, I'm willing to give you literal transcripts. In fact, almost nothing is invested in apartments where those who have lived there for years and have worked in a hoorn, their wives. But it's invested in so-called residential neighborhoods. There are represented flats built there, but there is no difference in the amount of rent. You have a three-bedroom apartment, you're paying for it. It doesn't matter what condition the apartment is in. I would also like to say, some four or five years ago, we were very rich in a village in southern Bohemia, perhaps you noticed it, the municipality of Modrava. Right there miraculously at once - it's a community that has about 70 inhabitants, maybe 50 numbers, maybe there's no more, but suddenly there's huge incomes. The village started building lucrative houses, swimming pools, it wants to invest in some special equipment. Where did that money come from? It's so that probably Ostrava or North Moravia doesn't get a crown from OKD, so it's the taxes that when NWR was trading on the stock exchange, so it's the taxes that Mr. Bakala was supposed to take to North Moravia, at least to North Moravia, so that at least part of the money gets to those who really belonged to it. I didn't. They're invested in Modrava. Nobody knows, there's no way to bring them back. I would also like to say that if anyone doubted that in order to privatise OKD flats, land, companies that were mentioned by Mr Hájek here, about which a colleague Grebeníček also spoke, if anyone doubted, I have here a copy of the part of the privatization project OKD. [[He's pointing.]] That's one thing. Second thing. If I wanted to bring in all the documentation I've collected over the years, I wouldn't have kidnapped her. At least 12 kilos of it is. It's incredibly much, and I'm just surprised that this House didn't have the courage to deal with this problem, which I think is a huge problem to fight a long time ago. [[10.30 hours]] We just had a magnificent, generous, generous ruler here in the early 1990s, and then also in those years others who were in the role of generous donors, handing out a handful of things that were far from theirs. The state has one duty. Duty to take care of every citizen. As long as there are citizens here who will have the right to feel that their rights are being trampled on, that standing up for them to reach their rights, nothing can be done and does not want to do anything, until then it will be a very bad state, a very bad leadership of the state. I'm sorry I took a little more time than I used to. I didn't say everything I wanted to say. There's a lot more to go. And I'm afraid that's not the last time I'm gonna be on this counter with this problem. And please, all of you, support my colleague Hájek's motion for a resolution from the House. I beg you very much. He's got a really perfect argument. And I believe he's finally gonna move something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u23	Thank you, Mrs Jana Lorencová. We will now continue with the factual remark made by Mr Plzák and then by the duly registered Members. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to supplement my lovely colleague. He didn't just come out of nowhere, Mr. Bakala. I've been, it's been a long time, listening to an interview with the former minister, I mean the economy, Mr. Grégr, and he said that when Škodovka was to be privatized, as a car manufacturer, they requested the assistance of some consulting firms from abroad. And they sent them Mr. Bakala. But Mr. Grégr rejected him as an inexperienced man, and he didn't expect anything from him. Luckily. Then he said that, as you can see, he was such an inexperienced asshole, and he was capable of anything. Then I'd just like to make it clear that Mr. Bakala's experience was before OKD. I mean, there was a privatization of Becherovka. We all know how the privatization of Becherovka ended, what tunnel it was. Finally, to Mr Sklenák, a colleague. Well, we'd like the Prime Minister here to tell us how the government intends to proceed. We didn't know that. If there's anything else I can do. If there's any footsteps. We've learned information about the condition as it was. But we didn't know anything about it. And that's what we're interested in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u25	I thank Mr Pavel Plzák for his time on the point of fact. With priority rights representing the President of the Dawn Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u26	Good morning again. You know, don't be mad at me, but I have to get back to it. We have so much trouble here that the ministers of this government always have something more important, including the Prime Minister. So I don't know if these meetings are important enough, or if the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, is simply going to adapt to others when they have time for a meeting. I just don't think so. I'd really like the Prime Minister to be here. I acknowledge the argument of my colleague Sklenák that the Prime Minister has already been here and said everything. Well, congratulations on having such a bright-eyed president who's been able to answer questions that haven't been asked yet. But there are legitimate questions coming out here, including those from my previous speakers, maybe what happens next. I'd really like to hear it. And I'd like the Prime Minister to be here. But I understand that she just doesn't want to hear it. But the fact that as a little boy, he's gonna cover his ears and pretend like it didn't happen... Well, it happened. It happened. And we need to do something about it. And it's been going on for quite a long time. At this point, I would like to remind you that we simply have the signatures collected for an emergency meeting. And maybe it was a mistake that we didn't call her because we could've figured it out. Don't be mad at me, yes, I want to vote for it too. I also want to finish it in some way. But we have twenty-five minutes to four duly logged in. And I'm not that optimistic to think that we're gonna adopt this resolution here today, that's for sure. I'm gonna try not to delay this any longer, but I'd really like for the Prime Minister to be here for this, answer the questions, or at least listen to what we have to say to him. Because if the Prime Minister forgot, I'll remind him. The Czech Government is responsible to the Chamber of Deputies. It's not like they'll be here if they make time for us. I'm glad the Prime Minister said what he wanted to say, but it would also be nice if he answered what we want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u27	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mrs Jana Lorencová's factual remark, I will read the apology that has come to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And that is an apology from 14 a.m. to the end of the day from Miroslava Němcová, between 14.30 a.m. and 15.30 for working reasons, Mr Procházka and Mr. Jiří Mihola. Now, Mrs Jana Lorencová's point of view. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to add very briefly what I did not finish first, an idea that concerns the reportage made for Czech Television. That was sometimes in 2006, when I really reworked the script several times. Finally it ended in the form that I published the script on the site - OKD apartments. Those are the citizens who live in those apartments and have their pages. So on their website, I ended up... getting the information out at all, so I ended up putting it out there. I think to this day, and because Czech television has pulled some passages out of my material and paradoxically used them in a purposefully edited report in favour of Zdeněk Bakala, not as the original intention of objective reporting was, under the pretext of objectivity, ripped out purposefully. I'm even there somewhere in the picture, like I'm filming. And the story actually came out in favour of the whole huge scam from my point of view. So that's all I'm saying. One more note that a colleague who's never done anything in his life has given it back to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u29	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Mr Karel Fiedler is now duly registered. Your colleague Kudela will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. And I'm gonna answer what you said in your speech, which you had here by the microphone. Well, they really don't. They really don't want it. They want the property, it's just a crow flies, it's non-refundable. That's what this is about for those who sometimes, or even now, voted against. The Prime Minister isn't here, and he's probably uncomfortable about how the privatization of the OKD took place, where he was personally present. That's what I get. And I don't think it's right for us to want this information from the person who's not gonna expose himself and just uncover how strange it was back then. And that's why I think it's right... I have it at my disposal, a motion for a resolution by Mr Hájek, where it is directed not to the Prime Minister, but to the Ministry of Finance, to the current Vice Prime Minister, who, as a guardian of the state register, I believe he will be more interested in possibly obtaining some assets, some funds back into that budget. Here I think, as my colleague Hájek thought, the resolution that it is addressed in a more correct direction. Here it was said by colleague Sklenák that the Prime Minister had already said his piece and said his piece. I think it was June 30th last year. Am I saying that right, the date? And it was said that there was an explanation from the Prime Minister's mouth that when the state, through the municipalities, lost the control of the shares and lost control of the OKD and had the minority that it no longer made sense to hold the shares, the rest was sold. Well, I'm asking myself, which, of course, if the Prime Minister isn't here today, I don't get the answer: why? Even if the state had the smaller half, at least part of what the shareholders paid off would end up in the state's accounts. [[10.40 hours]] I happened to remember it again this week when I noticed that this week the government was discussing the state's shares in companies with a stake of less than 10 percent, and it was said that if the state's share falls below 10 percent, it has really very limited possibilities to interfere somehow with the operation of those companies and that the shares would therefore be sold out. Ten percent. The government said 10 percent is the limit limit, but that's where the OKD went down 50 percent. I don't know exactly, I'd have to look into history, some records, how much money was paid for the dividends. If the state had its minority share, but almost half of it to this day, we could have had a number of profits and profits from the strange business with the flats to this day. And that didn't happen. It is evident that the Prime Minister does not want to answer these unpleasant questions. I have - it has already been said here, I will mention it once again - I will join in supporting the resolution proposed by my colleague Hájek, because I think that asking for some steps after the Prime Minister is futile, it is pointless that the Ministry of Finance may be more willing. After all, we have witnessed during the previous interventions that the Prime Minister has refused to answer the question completely. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u31	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. We will continue with factual remarks, Mr Jiří Štětina and then colleagues Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u32	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had a rather long speech prepared - well, a long speech, not for me - but of course I know I'm quitting at 11 o'clock, so I took the liberty of having a technical remark related to the Opencard investigation committee, which was the only one who investigated, named and filed a motion for prosecution. And now I have a suggestion that we should, or we could set up a committee of inquiry at OKD, in which there would be members of the same team who were on the Opencard committee. Otherwise, of course, when the time comes, I will return to my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u33	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin. Mr Josef Hájek, now. I ask the House for peace! Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u34	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, you can see that I am wearing a mining uniform. It's a gesture, it's a gesture of solidarity and hope for the miners to know that here in this House they have their voice and their representation. The following statement by the Mining Union Association, which I would like to quote here, also shows that solidarity in mining works: The Mining Union Association fully supports every initiative aimed at OKD stability and correction of past mistakes. The association of mining unions fully supports the motion for a resolution by Mr Josef Hájek concerning further progress on the current situation in OKD and the state of the former housing fund OKD. The association of mining unions rightly believes that privatization of OKD was a crime on miners and tenants of mining flats for which the previous government has been responsible since Minister Dlouhý's duties. Thanks to these governments, Mr Bakala acquired OKD, a company that owned huge assets at this time. After 12 years of Mr. Bakala's reign, OKD debts of 17 billion remained. Crowns. We don't want to, and we can't accept that. For this reason, we are adding to the requirements laid down in Mr Hájek's proposal on the point entitled Information of the Government regarding the disadvantageous privatisation of the OKD. This motion for a resolution should impose significant obligations on the Government of the Czech Republic regarding possible redress, respectively. mitigating the negative consequences of OKD sales. First of all, it is a requirement for the government to analyse the possibilities of securing OKD's assets in the event that the current court decides that the assets acquired by privatisation were a return on crime. Secondly, we demand that the Government of the Czech Republic assess the possibility of bringing an arbitration action, which would allow the sale of flats from the former OKD fund to tenants in the event of a breach of the privatisation contract. On behalf of thousands of miners and tens of thousands of tenants of OKD flats, we appeal to the government to use all its competences to correct the mistakes of previous governments. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you for your understanding, Mr President. Six representatives of the Mining Union Association signed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u35	I'm tolerance alone, I know it was the whole text. Mr Plzák's point of order is now still in effect. My colleague Kudela is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u36	Thank you. Very briefly. I might amuse you a little, but here we are talking about a man who has done such things in North Moravia and has damaged a lot of people like Mr. I would like to point out that Bakala was a court-respected crook, that his actions carried signs of thugery. He sued today's Minister of the Zaorálk. I suggest we talk about Bakal as a crook. Nothing can happen to us at all, and I think that something like this could happen in our resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u37	I thank my colleague Plzák for keeping time on the point of fact. We can continue with Mr. Petr Kudela's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u38	Hello. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I listened carefully to the Prime Minister's opening address on the privatisation of OKD, and I listened carefully to my previous speakers. I come from Ostrava, and I sincerely enjoyed the privatisation of OKD, because OKD was always in Ostrava, the state that he did almost what he wanted. Indeed, it was a large company employing perhaps 60,000 employees throughout the North Moravian region, which owned tens of thousands of apartments. The privatization of OKD in its time was divided into privatization in favour of management, which I rejoiced that they were experts, will own it for the benefit of the municipalities, and some remained the state. I believe that the stumbling block was precisely the municipality where there was no money in the 1990s, the municipalities were poor, the roads were broken, the pavements were not, the sewerage could not be talked about, the gasification was not etc. So what have the communities done with the vision of any money for the development of their communities? They sold the shares of OKD and the state lost most of it. Today's Prime Minister Sobotka, in my opinion, just put out the problem. He had no choice - 46 percent. I believe that Mr. Koláček and Mr. Otava's practices could lead to the state's getting away with it completely - pardonfully - with its bare ass. Mr Koláček and Mr Otava, members of the Regional Committee of the KSČ. We're talking about it being, let's say, the thief, et cetera. Of course, if anyone has information that they're thieves, have them file a criminal complaint against them, let them be punished for it. I'm totally up for it. And such prominent KSČ who got to the property was far, far more. I'm sorry, I'm sorry that privatization turned out like this. I've been looking forward to it. Mining has a long-term tradition in Ostrava. We're closing the shafts that still have coal reserves. From an economic point of view, this is a huge loss. However, life goes on. The North Moravian region has faced really high unemployment in its day. Today we're talking about lack of labor. The raiders are handsome, those I take into my hand can handle everything, but they need to be helped, and the need for help is for this region and the miners, even today, when, unfortunately, there will be a gradual downturn. But by then, some will only laugh at it from afar. I'm sorry, but if there's a real chance of punishing them for that, then let the hand of justice fall on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u39	I thank Mr Petr Kudel. Now, Mr Jiří Štětina, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u40	Thank you again, Mr Vice-President. It's obvious he got to me, I'm gonna try to cut my speech a little short. I'm not going to deal with the case of OKD, because everything that's been said here is absolutely true and it would be a repeat. But I will recall some fundamental things, because I consider this to be a system, a corruption system that was not only at the time when the privatisation of OKD took place, but which was built here after the so-called. The revolution when the parties who were in power at the time are responsible. We can't say it was an accident. I had three interpelations prepared in the last parliamentary term, which I said, to the Minister of Justice, the Minister of the Interior, and then to the Vice-President of the Government, who had a fight against corruption in the Ministry. None of them answered me. And I'll tell you what I asked. First, in my written interpelation, and then even verbal interpelation, I had listed cases. I'll just randomly choose from it. This was a case of state material reserve, privatization of OKD, property situation of Martin Dvořák's family, megalomaniac plan of the hospital complex in Střešovice, Martin Roman's ties to Škoda Plzeň. It was further discussed for example. on corruption in the privatisation of Pilsen Damages. Sale of shares of Czech oil company Setuza. Freeway D47, prosecution of CEZ managers, Diag Human etc., etc., there was a whole series of cases. I asked these officials to tell me how these cases were handled, and I asked four questions. Who and how the case was preserved, who and how the case was prolonged, until the legal time for the investigation was exceeded, because the protagonists of all these cases no longer remembered, the evidence was lost, the contracts were not found. And most importantly, who stopped the case. Of course, no one has answered me to this day. That's why, because I was worried I wouldn't make it in time, so I repeat again and again the motion to set up an investigation committee for the OKD case, even knowing that we don't have much time left. But if this committee started its work as soon as possible, I definitely think it would snap and that we could end it by the end of the parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u41	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin. And we have before us the speech of Mrs Hana Aulická, who is the last to be entered into the general debate so far. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u42	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the Prime Minister spoke in the previous paragraph, apologizing from the meeting in the Chamber of Deputies, as the Commission is meeting on the issue of nuclear issues in the Czech Republic. I must say that it is very responsible of the Prime Minister to address this issue, but at the same time we have a firmly placed point which also moves the Czech Republic considerably, and the impact will also have a considerable impact on the citizens of this country. That is why, of course, I immediately wonder if the Prime Minister, for example. did not use the meeting of the Commission to avoid having to take part in the discussion of this point. Today we are talking about the situation of OKD. Let us, however, pour pure wine. Even the President of the Trade Unions, Mr Středula, drew the Prime Minister's attention to the paragraph in the privatisation agreement concluded between the Czech Republic and OKD, where it is said that the company will create a fund for its coal mining, where funds will be sent, which will be used exclusively to reduce coal mining and financial and social assistance in the settlement of redundant workers. Of course, when asked by the President about the government where these funds were, the representatives of the government could not answer. And I am asking the Prime Minister who, from the government or the representatives, has exercised control over the maintenance and compliance of contractual terms that have been kept secret for a long time. If the state behaved responsibly and his efforts were to control its demands, he would not have to spend more billions today on a social program for released miners from OKD. At least not on such a large financial scale. I would like to thank my colleague Hájek, who is not from my region, but we have much in common. And as he fights for his people here, I also tried to break the limits at the ČSA mine in the Ústí Region. Unfortunately, the government has decided what it has decided. However, it helped the beginning of the destabilization of the heat industry in the Czech Republic and the threat to the business of several dozen other industrial companies that depend on coal from the ČSA mine. But I'm sure the government will sort it all out. He's got the experts. But let's go back to the issue of OKD. Today I also represent my colleague Le Luzar, who presented our motion for a resolution to you at the last hearing, and, as he mentioned last time, since we understand that you, colleagues, too, have much to do from other areas, I will be happy to give you our motion for a resolution again. Our motion for a resolution is also stored in the system under number 4663. Point 1 states that the Czech Republic has reached a number of problems, which have been enhanced by the problematic privatisation of the right to acquire and trade in our national wealth and raw materials, including black and brown coal, through a political decision that contradicted the views of the general professional public, the academic community in the field of raw materials and energy, and the absence of a clear and long-term raw material and energy concept. The Chamber of Deputies in the second part requires the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure (a) the possibility of mining all types of coal as irreplaceable mineral wealth of the Czech Republic today and in the future, (b) the protection of deposits reserved for minerals of the Czech Republic from their irreparable depreciation in the event of any changes in ownership relations or termination of business. These two points should be addressed so that we do not lose the coal that remains underground unclaimed, and it is really billions of crowns. Today OKD solves the problem that it doesn't have 60 miles. for maintenance at the Frenštát mine. But restoring this mine would cost about 25 billion. And it needs to be thought that it is the government's duty to protect mineral wealth. However, this also applies to the currently under threat of unclaimed brown coal at the locality of Lom ČSA in Mosteck. Another point - (c) the legality and fulfilment of all the obligations agreed in privatization and resulting from laws and regulations in relation to the protection of health, nature, the reclamation of the landscape and employment. This point, proposed in the resolution, could seem odd in the context of the privatisation agreement where this is mentioned. But, as history has shown us, this point is completely disrespected and not protected, because in the privatisation agreement it was that OKD was supposed to create reserves, but no one ever checked whether it was created. Today it is shown that this company has no financial reserves for the downturn of the mine, employment problems and others and is turning to the state. The question is, who was supposed to care, who was supposed to watch it? That is why I think that this point should be mentioned in the resolution and discussed in detail. Another point: effective use of state ownership and mining rights to the previously unladen or planned mining sites, where strategic stocks of mineral resources can be dealt with not only by employment, but especially by our energy dependence on many decades. This is the problem of the důl Frenštát. At the moment preserved, and as I say, 60 million kept in some kind of functional condition. But that may be why OKD revolves around, if I use an expression, a vultures of the financial market. I won't be far from the truth, because it's the billions that are there. It is the right to conquer this raw material and is a prerequisite, at least the last information from the market says that coal prices will go up, especially in Germany, and the reduction in the production of nuclear energy will be a recovery in coal mining. This also applies again to the ČSA mine in Mosteck. Another point - e) the future of workers with the job of exploding -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u43	Madam, I have no choice but to interrupt you in your speech because it is 11 o'clock and for 11 o'clock there is a fixed point. So we're going to have to interrupt this point, which is what I'm doing. And there are several possible solutions, because I have a signal that Minister Mládek will apologize. I don't have an apology delivered yet, but the fixed point at 11:00 couldn't be discussed, which is a bit of a serious problem. I'd like to call the president of the MPs and ask them to consult on how to proceed. If the government has decided that someone else can submit a proposal instead of Minister Mládek, then I must be notified, because I would not be able to start discussing the fixed point. So I'd like a consult. [[Consultation of the President shall take place with the President of the MPs.]] Before we go any further, I will read the apology that has come to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mrs Černochová apologizes for today on 19 January due to illness, Mr David Kádner from 14.30 to 19 pm, Mr Mládek apologizes from 11 to 12 pm in the Ministry's work, Vice-President Gazdík apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day and Minister Pelikán apologises from 16 to 18 pm. Now, I'd like to give you the result of the meeting. We have a fixed point 191 which cannot be discussed for the absence of Minister Mládek. We'll put him at the end of the international treaty block, so far. Then we continue with the fixed points. But before we proceed to that first point, which follows the now rescheduled point 191, there's a chance of reading the draft changes to the program, because it's 11 o'clock, and Thursday we always make changes to the program at 11 o'clock. So now's a chance if anyone wants to propose a change in the program to design it. Who's reporting for the debate? My colleague, Birke, is the first to report to the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u44	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, allow me, for the third time, to ask you for the inclusion of paragraph 21 on tomorrow's fixed points, House printing 888, Act 13, on the road, Parliamentary proposal by Jan Birke and Roman Sklenák, already mentioned, the possibility for winter maintenance of road administration and maintenance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u45	So tomorrow after the fixed points, print 888, point 21. Yes?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u46	Yes, that's right. Thank you, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-002-282.u47	Anyone else have a proposal to change the program? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on this proposal. I must unsign you out because, of course, the conditions in the House have changed. Please log in with your identification cards so that we can vote on this proposal. [[Comments from the diaper that there are empty government benches.]] I have released the Secretary of State to prepare himself physiologically, so to speak, to say that there will be at least one minister sitting here on the stand of the rapporteurs and the petitioners, but I expect that before I vote, there will be at least one minister to appear. [[A voice from the diaper: at least one minister.]] At least the number of Members present at the meeting will be settled so that we can approve the amendment of the programme, as proposed by Mr Birke. [[Proposals by Members from the plenary that they will take up positions in government benches instead of absent ministers.]] Under the Rules of Procedure, replacement ministers, or shadow parties, are not enough for me. [[Waiting for someone from the government to arrive. Noise and restlessness in the courtroom.]] Now, the Foreign Minister has just arrived, so we have at least one member of the government. We can therefore vote first on Mr Birke's proposal to amend tomorrow's agenda - after the fixed points, paragraph 21, print 888. I've started voting number 193 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 193, from 107 in favour of 69, against 29. The proposal was adopted and tomorrow the programme will be supplemented by another fixed item. [[11.10 hours]] According to the approved agenda, we have item 201 in front of us. It's him.
