ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u1	74. Government bill amending Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules and on the amendment of certain related laws (budgetary rules), as amended, and other related laws /house printing 1071/ - first reading Under the Government's authority, the proposal will be made by the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the opinion of the experts on the Administrative Code, the granting of subsidies and returnable financial assistance from the State budget is a public authority exercise, and therefore this activity is subject to the administrative rules, despite the fact that the budgetary rules so far contain legislation which precludes and excludes judicial review of the application of the Administrative Code. Based on some circumstances, such as the views of some experts mentioned above and the judgment of Supreme Administrative Court No. 9ADS83/2014-46, a draft amendment to the budgetary rules, i.e. Act No. 218/2000 Sb. The aim of this proposal is to adjust the relationship of the Administrative Code to the provision of subsidies and return financial assistance from the state budget. In accordance with the proposal, the Administrative Code shall apply to the process of granting subsidies and return financial assistance from the State budget, with certain issues being adjusted differently, such as participation, and the application of certain provisions of the Administrative Code is excluded. The process of granting subsidies and return financial assistance from the state budget is designed as a one-stage, no appeal or degradation will be possible. The renewal of the procedure is also excluded and the application of the review procedure is also restricted. An applicant for a grant or a return financial assistance will be able to bring an administrative action against the decision. In the event that current legislation is maintained, there is a risk that unsuccessful applicants for a grant or a refundable financial assistance from the state budget will bring actions to court and, on the basis of a judicial decision, the pressure on the application of the administrative order will increase in the granting of such grants by full financial assistance. This means that this process would be covered by all the remedies provided for in the administrative order: appeal, breakdown, renewal of proceedings, review proceedings. Such a situation could not only lead to an increase in the administrative complexity of the process, but to a collapse in the provision of these subsidies, including subsidies co-financed by the European Union budget. The proposed amendment contains an amendment to Act No. 248/2000 Coll., on the promotion of regional development, which allows the delivery of documents relating to subsidies co-financed by the budget of the European Union through the MS 2014+ system. The last amendment contained in the amendment is the amendment of Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research and experimental development and innovation, which excludes the application of the procedure proposed in the amendment to budgetary rules for these specific subsidies. The aim is to maintain the contractual principle of granting grants in the field of science and research. [[12.00 hours]] In accordance with point 17 of Article 1, the amendment to the budgetary rules is not linked to subsidies and return financial assistance, which amends the provisions of the budgetary rules governing the government's budgetary reserve on the basis of the Supreme Audit Office's audit finding. The effectiveness of the Act is proposed on 1 January 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u3	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Václav Votava.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, let me introduce you to a brief intelligence report. The proposed amendment to the Act regulates the process of granting subsidies and return financial assistance from the state budget. The current legislation states that if the provider accepts a grant application or a refundable financial assistance, he shall issue a written decision containing the required elements. The abovementioned decisions shall not be subject to general rules on administrative proceedings and shall not be subject to judicial review. However, the abovementioned legislation on the granting of subsidies and returnable financial assistance from the State budget is overcome in the context of the development of the rule of law and the development of the caselaw. The current legal situation therefore appears to be unsustainable in the long term. The relationship between the granting of subsidies and the return financial assistance from the state budget to the administrative order should therefore be adapted. It is therefore proposed that a one-stage administrative procedure, i.e. a subsidy applicant or a refundable financial assistance, will not be able to appeal the decision to which the administrative procedure will be terminated or to file a decision against it. Retrials will also be excluded. The judicial review of the decision is not excluded in the application and the party to the proceedings will therefore be able to refer the administrative action to the court. So much for my brief intelligence report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate to which Mr Vilímec is reporting, to whom I am giving the floor. Then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As the Minister and the rapporteur have said, the draft of this law, if I stick to only the budgetary rules, it actually concerns one paragraph, paragraph 14. I don't want to repeat what was said here. That paragraph 14 actually regulates the existing method of granting subsidies, and it is evident that there must also be a change in the context of judicial case law. On the other hand, there was not one thing that should be heard here, and that is why I volunteered, I waited for it to be remembered, neither the Minister of Finance nor the rapporteur mentioned it. First of all, the simplified process, as the Ministry of Finance called it, the provision of subsidies and return financial assistance, will lead to some of the budgetary impacts that are mentioned there, about 50 million, even the explanatory memorandum shows that for individual subsidy providers, the change would lead to an increase of 78 jobs. That's what I think should be heard. But more importantly, there should be one thing. And here I'd like your attention, as well as the Minister of Finance's attention. It follows from the diction of this bill that it will in fact not be possible to provide any grant or return financial assistance without the prior call made by the provider, i.e. it will no longer be able to grant or return financial assistance on the basis of an individual application, i.e. on the basis of this law, no municipality or anyone else could turn to the Ministry of Finance, but to any resort with a request for assistance in a situation where there is a need for emergency situations. This needs to be realized, and it is quite a serious matter. I am generally in favour of reducing such individual subsidies significantly. That, I think, is in place. But, in turn, it must be realised that there may be cases where the state is actually disposing of any possibility in the form of a grant or a refundable financial assistance to address some difficult situation. It is also not very clear to me, especially as far as the return financial assistance is concerned, how it will actually be provided. On the basis of some published call allowing the unlimited number of all potential applicants to submit such a request for return financial assistance. I cannot imagine that, therefore, because the return financial assistance is still being used and has always been used to bridge the particular applicant's difficult situation rather than to call upon an unlimited number of applicants. Apply for return financial assistance. I understand that, and I do not dispute that the conditions and methods of granting subsidies need to be tightened up, and, after all, this also follows from the case-law, but it should not lead to the fact that the State is actually free of the possibility of aid in certain cases on the basis of a very well-founded individual request. You know, this fight for absolute transparency leads to absurd results and, in my opinion, a certain loss of common sense in this case. I know that the Ministry of Finance, in order to propose a different amendment, the Government's legislative board has just rejected it, but I am saying this honestly, because this is a serious matter, and certainly the Committee on Budgets should take this amendment very seriously, as an amendment with special implications, and not merely technical. You know, something similar, to give a certain parallel, was, if you remember, proposed your time in the case of budgetary rules of territorial budgets. It was also more or less suggested that the regions or municipalities could not provide subsidies or return financial assistance other than any previous call, then retreated because it was getting completely out of real life in those municipalities or even regions, because there would be no firefighters etc. they couldn't get any funding. I really believe that, as I am ready to take part in this, the Committee should find some acceptable way, which will not be contrary, of course, to the judicial case-law of how to set these rules in accordance, and I note, with common sense. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The rapporteur is registered with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Before I suggest a shortening of the time limits, I would respond to what my colleague Vilímec has said here. We will certainly discuss this in the Committee on Budgets, although the fellow Member is not in the Committee on Budgets, but there is nothing to prevent him from filing, as he does, in fact, in other cases, to make an amendment. To those who are not members of the Committee on Budgets, I would like to say that the practice that we had previously in the Committee on Budgets, that we had opened the item, we set deadlines for amendments, i.e. that we did not discuss the point or the law, and after the amendments we only voted on them in the next meeting of the Committee on Budgets. So since we are already in a certain time frame with regard to the deadline for the elections, I am gifted with the opportunity to announce the deadline ahead of the first reading and during the discussions of the Committee on Budgets, if it is on the agenda, then we will approve. Therefore, we will not interrupt the negotiations, but we will approve the possible amendments. This is only for those who are interested and eager to submit amendments to the Committee on Budgets. Everyone gets a vizo, all the Members of the Chamber of Deputies get a vizo, until the deadline for submitting amendments to the secretariat of the Committee on Budgets. That's just what I thought it was necessary to tell you. Now, Mr Vice-President, I would like to put forward a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions by 30 days, i.e. 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u9	Thank you, rapporteur, I have noted your proposal and I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. As I see no further application, I conclude the general debate and ask whether you want to take the final floor, the appellant or the rapporteur. It's not like that. So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. [[12.10 hours]] The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering a motion to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee, and I am asking whether anyone is proposing that we order this press to another committee as a guarantee. Since I do not see any proposal, then we will proceed to the vote and I will read the motion for a resolution: who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 558, registered 122 Members, for proposal 93, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has a proposal on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I'm registering Mr Böhnisch's application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Since the amendment concerns possible operations of the State Environmental Fund, I would also like to request that the press be assigned to the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-007-074.u11	Thank you. Anyone else have a motion on the commandment of the committee? I can't see, in which case I'll vote. First, I'm registering the application for check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you all to sign up with your cards. There is a proposal that the press be ordered by the Committee on the Environment. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 559, which is signed by 105 Members, for proposal 57, against 33. I note that this proposal has been approved and we have ordered this press to discuss the Committee on the Environment. I want to ask you, yes, there's going to be a vote-check, so I'm going to ask you for a moment of patience. [[After a while, he sent a messenger. Schwarz says he's okay.]] The vote was okay, then we'll continue. And since there has been a proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion by 30 days, that is to say 30 days, so I am going to vote on a shortening of that deadline. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour of shortening the 30-day hearing period, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 560, registered 109 Members of Parliament, for proposal 75, against 8. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. And I'm opening up another point in today's meeting, and that's
