ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u1	28. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand /German press 1000/ - Second reading I ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček for the opening word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u2	Thank you. Mr President, I am very sorry, but perhaps a few words on the previous point. I didn't want to prolong the debate anymore. However, for Mr Gabal, by your means, Mr President. We have been members of the International Scientific Forum since 2011. And as for the penzum information we received, it wasn't usable for us as the Ministry. I am unable to provide you with the exact list of documents we have obtained in this organization, but I can assure you that we can additionally provide you with this information in writing if you agree to this. As regards this point currently under discussion, which is a government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada and the EU and its Member States, on the other hand, this agreement was described quite thoroughly during the first reading and during the discussions in the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, and the discussions were often very turbulent. That's why I'm just briefly reminding you of the basic facts. The agreement, otherwise known as CETA, opens the 35-million-dollar market for Czech exports and deepens economic cooperation with one of our most important non-European allies. We already know about many companies that will want to make use of new agreements. Firms are very interested in information and consultation and are waiting for this September 21st, when most parts of this Agreement will apply under the Interim Implementation Scheme. The full text will enter into force only after ratification in national parliaments. Specific examples of how CETA can help Czech companies describe a publicly accessible impact study that the Ministry of Industry and Trade has developed. This demonstrates, inter alia, that the economic impact in the tens of millions of crowns will be visible immediately as a result of the elimination of customs duties and will be even more noticeable in the long term due to the reduction of other trade barriers. It is also important for companies to access contracts, public contracts in Canada at federal level and in individual provinces. It is important to reiterate that the Czech Republic needs to conclude trade agreements. For a country like the Czech Republic, with a smaller own market and a strong industrial tradition, it is essential that we have other markets open where we can sell our products. Trade agreements, including CETA, improve export conditions, simplify bureaucracy and avoid discrimination against Czech companies abroad. New opportunities are helping to diversify our exports outside the EU, which is one of our long-term export policy objectives. We have responded many times to the criticism that was heard in the House. Recently, we have also sent a detailed letter to the members of both the Economic and Foreign Committee in which the objections that have been raised have been described and explained very thoroughly. I will now briefly repeat that CETA does not interfere in any way with the regulatory powers of the EU and the Member States. Only those products that meet our standards and our standards may continue to be imported into the European market. The right to regulate in the public interest and to protect public services is also maintained. The agreement also significantly improves the investment protection system compared to the current arbitration system. In negotiations we managed to achieve a very good result and Czech companies will have a much easier way to succeed on the Canadian market. That is why we should support the ratification of this agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u3	Thank you, Mr. Minister. This House press has been ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee and the Economic Committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 1000/1 and 2. I ask that they gradually take the floor and justify the resolution - the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mr Matěj Fichtner. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u4	I had no idea this deal would come up today. However, allow me to introduce you to the Foreign Committee resolution on this proposal. At its 36th meeting on 13 July 2017, the Foreign Committee adopted the following resolution on the Parliamentary Press 1000. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Mr . Jiří Koliba, Mr Matěj Fichtner's report and following the debate by the Foreign Committee: I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its consent to ratify the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the EU and its Member States, on the other, signed on 30 October 2016. II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. That's what I just did. And since KSČM colleagues are already on the starting line, I won't delay any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. Things are happening here today... Yes. The rapporteur for the Economic Committee, Mr Pavel Šrámek, is the second rapporteur to justify the Committee's resolution. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President, for the floor. Thank you for the 11th time today. This press discussed the Economic Committee at its 56th meeting on 13 July 2017 on a government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic will agree to ratify the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the EU and its Member States, on the other. Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Koliba, report by Mr Pavel Šrámek and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the EU and its Member States, on the other; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Economic Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to give special support to this very important treaty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u7	Thank you and I am opening the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure you will accept that leaving such a serious point as this one, which is somewhat out of control of the others, which we have managed very quickly, only for ten minutes, is little. Let me propose, in agreement with others, that we interrupt this item by Tuesday.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u9	If this is the agreement of the presidents of the MPs, I will not vote on it. [[Objection in the O.R.]] Is there such an agreement between the presidents of the MPs, please? [[Some of the chairmen disagree.]] I note that this is a procedural proposal that we will be voting on. I'm signing you all off, please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the suspension of this item by Tuesday next week, as suggested by Mr Černý. [[Comments from the hall: Kvorum! We are not a quorum!]] Initiating vote. Who's in favor of interrupting? Who's against it? I declare this vote to be misguided because the vote has not been reached, so I am interrupting the House's meeting until the 13th hour of the lunch break, so I am interrupting the House's meeting until 14.30 hours, when we will proceed with the Oral Interpelration. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-028-028.u10	Ladies and gentlemen - I do not see anyone from the members of the government - good afternoon. We have in front of us item 92, these are oral interpelations, first to the Prime Minister and then to members of the Government of the Czech Republic.
