ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-000-000.u1	So, honourable Members, honourable Members - and we do not have one member of the government at this time. I begin on the third day of the 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all here. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. For Nykl of health, Ivan Adamec asked for reasons of work, Jan Bartošek for Sedláček of work, Jiří Zemánek for Válková of work, Ondřej Benešík for Schwarz of work, zahradník Birke for Votava of work, Marek Černoch for Pavera of health, René Číp for Zlatuška of health, Vlastimil Vozka for reasons of work, Josef Hájek for Rostislav of work, Milada Rykala for personal reasons, František Laudát for Wernerová of work, for Markéta of work for Soukup of work, Pavel Holík for Schwarzenberg of Jelonková, for Helena of work, for David of work, for Karel of work, for Květa of work, for Matušovská of work, for Nytrová of work by Mr. From members of the government apologize: Bohuslav Sobotka for work reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek for work reasons, Daniel Herman due to foreign travel, Milan Chovanec for work reasons, Marian Jurečka for work reasons, Miloslav Ludvík for morning meetings for work reasons, Michaela Marksová for afternoon meetings for work reasons, Robert Pelikán until 14.30 for work reasons, Martin Stropnickýý until 11.30 for work reasons, Karla Šlechtová for foreign travel reasons, Stanislav Štech for health reasons and Dan Ťok for morning meetings for work reasons. We've dealt with apologies. I've seen the Minister here... There. Today we begin with paragraph 91... And Mr. Vojtěch Adam apologizes for medical reasons within 10 hours. Today we will begin with paragraph 91 and this is the response of the members of the government to written interpelations. I would like to inform you that by 11 o'clock at the latest it is possible to submit applications for oral interpelations and at 11.30 o'clock their draw will take place. Opening point
