ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-003-021.u1	21. Government bill on the status of public benefit and on the amendment of related laws (Public benefit status law) /German press 1005/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-003-021.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I shall briefly mention what is the subject of this proposal and the reason for its submission. The point is that the Civil Code has introduced a new system for the functioning of the public benefit of legal persons, where, in Section 147, it assumes that another legislation will be adopted, another law that will regulate the conditions which a public-service legal person must fulfil in order to obtain the right to register so-called. public utility status. So the Civil Code adopted a few years ago brought something called public utility status and said that another law was to lay down the conditions under which such status would be granted. The legislative work on such a law then began without delay, however, during the last parliamentary term this law, although it was not passed, was not approved and after further peripeties it is presented to you now at second reading. At the same time, we tried to make sense of these conditions and at the same time not be too burdensome for the non-profit sector. This means that these are conditions which aim in particular to ensure the transparency of such an entity and that it will indeed be a non-profit entity, i.e. that neither directly nor indirectly in any hidden way will it be possible to make profit or other funds from this entity to its founders or otherwise connected persons, but that all these funds will really go for some charitable purpose. The weakness of the proposal - I say this quite openly - is that the legitimate question of what the status of public benefit will be good for is that the law does not give any answer, simply because it is not in the Gesture of the Ministry of Justice, and therefore we have not had the opportunity to introduce something like this, with the fact that it is not clear whether the entities, whether they are government or regional or local entities, who have this in their jurisdiction, would use or not use this status in the future and whether they would use it in such a good way. Perhaps for this reason, too, a radical amendment has appeared in the committee's deliberations to replace all that we have prepared by repealing Section 147 of the Civil Code, and thus the very status of public utility. I may surprise you, but the Justice Department has a neutral position on this, because we don't insist as I tried to explain. It's not something we'd make up. We're simply fulfilling the task that the Civil Code has given us. And if this House, in its power in this direction, cancels the task, it will not bother us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-003-021.u3	Thank you, Minister. You didn't surprise us. Thank you. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 1005/1 and 2. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for Mrs Markéta Wernerová's constitutional committee. [[She's not present.]] Since we are at second reading, we do not have to vote on this, the Member shall be replaced by the President of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Jeroným Tejc. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-003-021.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, there is no reason to delay. The minister said the most important thing. I will merely point out that the constitutional committee has adopted a resolution on this matter on 19 April of this year under number 302, which can be found in the press 1005/2. The resolution is quite extensive with its text, however, in simple terms, it does not disturb the status of public utility itself in the Civil Code and in subsequent regulations, but it simplifies the situation so that it does not need to be demonstrated and confirmed by the Court. This means that we have complied with the requests of all associations, especially those working with children and others, so that we do not complicate their situation by forcing them to go through administratively in the form of approval of the status of public benefit. The amendment will be available for the House's decision if it decides to support it. At this point, I just thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-003-021.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate in which I do not register any application. Mr. Mr. Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-003-021.u6	Good morning, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues. I'm just gonna say a brief opinion from the TOP 09 club. I must say that the proposal, as it was originally put forward, has rightly met with criticism of non-profit organisations and organisations that are engaged in public utility, because he has not really motivated them to be included in this status. The Ministry of Finance did not at all submit matters relating to tax or financial bonding, which would be directed towards the non-profit sector. Unfortunately, the two ministers for the YES movement were unable to agree to send here something that would be important in terms of including these non-profit organisations in this status. In addition to the fact that this law, as originally presented, did not confer any advantages on them, it was just paperwork and administration and unequal treatment of those who were not in that status. So I'd say that's a completely unnecessary law. There will be some amendments, but, as we know, low-quality proposals that really do not bring anything positive are often not improved. So if the committee's proposal goes through then, the proposal will turn completely into something else. But it is essential that the status that is in the Civil Code is fulfilled from the financial and tax point of view, it remains incomplete and it will be a task for the next parliamentary term. So I just want to say that if something comes out of this House in third reading, it won't have any positive effect on non-state nonprofit organizations anyway, and it's a debt that remains behind this government and will have to be dealt with in the next parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-003-021.u7	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. I see no one, so I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. I am opening the debate in detail. I don't see any crowds either. If no one reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. I therefore end second reading of this bill. I thank the rapporteur and the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-003-021.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, good afternoon. We will continue with the next items according to the approved agenda of the meeting. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
