ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u1	278. Government bill amending Act No. 64/1986 Coll., on Czech Trade Inspection, as amended, and Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended /German press 995/ - 3rd reading The Minister stayed at the rapporteur's table, the same is true of Mrs Květa Matušovská, who is the rapporteur of the guarantee economic committee. The amendments are in the Houses of Press 995/3, which was delivered on 24 May this year. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 995/4. I ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček if he wants to speak for the plaintiff at the opening of the debate. That's right. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, at third reading, we are discussing a government bill amending the Czech Trade Inspection Act and the Consumer Protection Act. This proposal aims, in particular, to legally anchor new control instruments for inspectors of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, which will ensure an adequate response from the supervisory authority to emerging commercial practices on the market. These instruments will ensure the necessary level of consumer protection, which I believe should be in the general interest. Newly proposed instruments include the power to require information from entities involved in the domain chain on the identity of e-shop operators in breach of relevant consumer protection legislation whose contact details are not traceable. [[11.10 hours]] The draft law also provides permission for inspectors of the Czech Trade Inspection to arrange access to closed premises of the seller, in which there are provenly mainly dangerous products or counterfeits. Another novelty is the provision ensuring the protection of personal data of inspectors of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority, whose safety the existing legislation does not think too much about, especially when purchasing checks, when their personal data are required from the seller, as is the case with the purchase of ordinary consumers. The Act also regulates detailed rules concerning control purchases, which clarify the mutual obligations of the Czech Trade Inspection and Controlled Persons and whose absence caused a number of problems in practice. Last but not least, the bill contains very important changes in relation to other legislation already adopted, such as the Act on Liability for Misdemeanors, unites terminology, removes some duplications and simplifies the current text. Without all these tools, the Czech Trade Inspection Authority would not be able to achieve its mission to protect Czech consumers and eliminate undesirable commercial practices on the market by punishing dishonest dealers in administrative proceedings. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this law at third reading. On the contrary, I recommend the approval of the amendments to the Economic Committee referred to in points A, on the contrary, I do not recommend approving the amendments referred to in points B1 and B2. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u3	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček. Before we go any further, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. As of 11.20, Mr Josef Nekl apologizes for reasons of work, Mr Jaroslav Holík apologizes from 12 o'clock and Mr Karel Pražák apologises from 12.30. I have no written application for a debate. No one's checking in from the scene. Can I have a debate... Sorry. Mrs Jana Černochová is reporting for the debate at third reading. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u4	Thank you. I would like very much to ask the Minister if he could assure the Chamber of Deputies that this bill is not a new, de facto unlimited and completely unprecedented authorisation for inspectors, as we have already discussed here as your predecessor. I don't think you've been in the position of minister yet, and one of the colleagues here has stepped up with the fact that it's not okay that people who aren't armed or security forces will have a de facto unlimited right to control someone, even undercover, in disguises, with an identity that will be provided to them under some kind of cover. Do we really want ČOI inspectors to have this authorisation? If you would be so kind as to comment on this, because I think that your statement will certainly have an impact on the Civic Democrat Club. Because we can't imagine that we should support a standard in which something like this is going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u5	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Who's next for the debate? I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. The Minister is... [[Minister Jiří Havlíček reporting.]] Or in the debate, Minister, or in the final word? [[In the final word.]] In the final word. Okay. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. The Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček claims the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would only briefly respond to the lady of your service. Yes, this provision contains a bill. The amendment tabled by Mr Váňa removes this proposal. I recommend that the Chamber of Deputies vote in favour of keeping this proposal there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u7	Okay, okay. The President of the ODS Club shall have priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u8	The Minister did not allow colleagues to respond. So I have to go to the club. Because if you had said that in the debate, those who were more interested could have said their views. Minister, I know it's done sometimes. The question is "why?" and the answer is that. That's how we've been debating so far. And now I've been looking at the first reading screen, and here colleagues across the political spectrum have expressed concern for the health and safety of these people who will use cover identity and so on and so forth. How's your security? They're supposed to move according to the explanatory report in a really criminal environment without being armed. You're creating police here without the authority of the police. That's the police, which, of course, isn't armed. That's pretty weird. And here we go, no one cares, it's Friday, it's a technical point. That's not a technical point. That is not, as the Minister said, such clarification of legislation and simplification of the law. That was one of the reasons you said, Minister. So could you tell us how these people will be equipped? Why do you want to send them into such risky operations as you write about them, for example, without weapons? How many cover identities do you expect there to be? What does that mean? Are they gonna have fake IDs? I don't completely understand. We should talk about this before we vote on it. And Mr Váňa is right to say no, and instead of the Minister saying why he thinks it's wrong, he says - well, I'll be against it. Why? That's why. It's our proposal. And that's really dangerous. We believe - if the Minister has a different opinion, I don't take it away from him, but let him try to explain it to us. How does he imagine such an activity? How many of these inspectors do you have with fake I.D.s, fake résumé, I don't know what it's all about? Because you really want to send them to a dangerous environment. That's it, I'm saying - you certainly did what I did, that you read the debate at first reading. If not, at least look at it now. For example, the reservations of your party colleagues that I should not say that you should listen to the opposition. As I say, the concerns and the embarrassment of these provisions have fallen from many member clubs here. Whether it's a government or an opposition club. And as if we forgot, now we said - fast, fast, technical point, refinement of terms and simplification. And the second question, Minister. What's the simplification? Always such a general sentence - this amendment brings simplification. Well, I wonder what it is. Unfortunately, I don't see any simplifications, but maybe I didn't look carefully and maybe I missed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u9	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. And before we proceed to the next step, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mrs Marta Semelová from 11.30 for work reasons, Mr Jaroslav Borka for personal reasons from 11.30 and Mr Stanislav Grospič also from 11.30 for personal reasons. They're apologizing for today's meeting. If no one checks in... Mr. Secretary reporting. Once they speak, the debate will be reopened at the third reading, because he has already used the final word. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u10	I'll only respond briefly to my previous speaker. The debate, Mr President, was to be held at the meeting of the Economic Committee. And all critics who did not participate in the provision introduced in the draft law did not attend the two meetings at which this topic was discussed. My colleagues were prepared there, there were colleagues from the Czech Trade Inspection, who were prepared to detail this information and the arguments why this proposal is being introduced, to make it clear in detail. The Institute of Changed Identity carries with it an important aspect of protection, protection for those inspectors, for those inspectors who go out in the field. The point is that we need to protect them in terms of effectively combating unfair commercial practices. In some cases, it is very difficult to prove if the inspector himself does not act as a consumer, including the drafting of a specific contract. In order not to thwart this check, the inspector would have to submit his own identity card to the trader stating his name, residence or specific family members. I do not consider it fair and I do not consider it ethical for the auditors of the Czech Trade Inspection to exhibit this very thing. I think - and the cases here are also from the past - that inspectors of the Czech Trade Inspection were often exposed to physical attacks near their residence in the past, and I think that we should also help them through this. [[11.20 hours]] The argument that the proposed authorisations for controlling inspectors do not have a comparison with other supervision, supervision or other forms of control available to the administrative authorities in the Czech Republic in ensuring illegal activities at the level of offences cannot be met, especially in view of the development of commercial practices of certain dishonest entrepreneurs falling within the scope of the Czech Trade Inspection. I think we need to vote after the debate. It will be a political decision whether or not we will give the auditors of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority this option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u11	I thank the Minister in the renewed debate. First, Mr Kučera's factual point, then Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u12	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to ask the Minister of Industry to really allow Members to ask questions about amendments to the law, virtually. on their aspects, too, during the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. It certainly is not an option only for the Economic Committee, virtually. On what other committee, it means, it does not apply that whoever has any question, please come to the committee and ask there, let's just vote here. This is definitely a rule we don't want to introduce here. And let us not take the opportunity for any Members to speak and ask any questions in this debate. I hope that wasn't even meant to be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Černochová's factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A colleague of Kučera's already said it in part. I am alone in two committees, in the Committee on Defence and Security, and unfortunately, these committees are usually sitting at the same time as the Committees on Budget or Economics are sitting, so I could not sit there at my best. First of all. Secondly, I wonder if the disharmony between the Minister and the Vice-Chairman of the Váňa Security Committee can be explained because, of course, I will support my colleague's proposal from the Security Committee, because I believe that he, although on the same side as the Minister, has assessed the risks, assessed that we are actually entering the French comedy with Louis de Funes in the lead role of Wing or thigh. Is that what you want, Minister? So can you please explain to me, and maybe, I don't know if Mr. Váňa's gonna be interested in this, too, what makes you so sure this is gonna work? And if it seems to you in a democratic society, in a society for which entrepreneurs are a dirty word today, your previous speaker even called them a perpetrator, then if that's how you want to keep throwing sticks at them? [[Predecessor?]] I had the hope in you that you would be different from your predecessor. I know you inherited this standard from him, but it's time, there's still time to do something about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u15	Thank you. We have a lot of factual remarks here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u16	Sorry, Mr. Vice-President, the Home Secretary corrected me correctly. He didn't say parasites, he said parasites.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u17	You're forcing me to be more than tolerance. Okay. There. Real remarks - Mr Kudela, Váňa, Chalupa and Benda. The first factual point, therefore, by Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u18	Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have discussed this standard directly with the Czech Trade Inspection staff, both at the highest level and with the workers directly in field work. Their work isn't funny. It's not funny. I'm happy for what they're doing because they're making sure that when they're doing business and communicating with the consumer, the communication is fair. I myself have encountered cases where the offerer, who offered something, didn't want to put the contract in my hand, provided I signed it. I believe that this measure that is now being taken will only be for the benefit of consumers. And personally, I recommend this measure and the proposal, as designed, for adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u19	Thank you, Mr Petr Kudel, for keeping time on the point of fact. Another point of fact is made by Mr Roman Váňa and Mr Chalupa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, of course, we have consulted the Minister very closely. We consulted with the Ministry staff and representatives of the Czech Trade Inspection Authority. I would like to assure you that this instrument is very detailed and well-treated in the law, that it will, if approved, be a very effective tool for the work of the Czech Trade Inspection. And the dispute that is only in this matter is whether this instrument is too strong for the Czech Trade Inspection, when no other body dealing with the fight against offences has such power. This is rather a police authority or a jurisdiction that is common among intelligence officers. This is a matter that we can judge politically here whether we want to strengthen the Czech Trade Inspection in this way, or whether we will put this instrument in her hands. However, I repeat once again, in this bill, it is very detailed, well thought out. And the arguments we put against this are really purely technical, when it really is an extremely strong tool, and from the perspective of the employees of the Czech Trade Inspection, when they are not in the service, they are not either a security or an armed corps, or they could be in danger to themselves. But that's the question of putting it into practice. So we can decide this within the framework of the vote on the amendments and on the approval of the law as a whole. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u21	I thank Mr Roman Váňa. And now also with the de facto remark of Mr Chalupa and Mr Benda will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u22	Thanks for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, some factually provoked the remark made by Mrs Černochová by you. I don't understand the connection between the Czech Trade Inspection Authority or its field workers having some sort of fake identity, say, with the fact that we're going to bother businessmen and so on. I really didn't understand how he felt about it at all. And I'm joining what's been said here. Like those people, of course, I appreciate their work, and those people in the field, it's not just the terrain. They're moving in an environment, let's say where people of non-Czech origin are, to be correct, and it's really about protecting them. Because the security situation, and Mrs Černochová, by means of you, certainly understands that the security environment is getting very much worse and is going to get worse. So I don't see the problem at all that these people who go to control different marketplaces, different buffets, people who have some kind of asylum and the like, to be adequately protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u23	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I will state that we have at least three factual points ahead of us - Mr Marek Benda, Mr Petr Bendl, Mrs Jana Černochová and duly signed up in Mr Martin Kolovratník's debate. Mr Huml has a replacement card number 72. Mr Marek Benda's point of view. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u24	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, I am listening with interest. If we feel that the Czech Trade Inspection Authority - now I'm reacting more to my previous speaker - is supposed to be an authority that deals with the security of this country, I have a bit of an impression that we are somewhere else entirely. The minister here is suggesting that he would have a way of fighting the bastards, in simple terms. I can still understand that. But then it really isn't about the foreign-language marketplaces that we also know, where I have absolutely no doubt that the problem is big. But that's where they're supposed to interfere with the police forces that are in service, they're protected by the service, and in no way the Czech Trade Inspection. First of all. Secondly, I have the impression that if there is a fundamental contradiction between the Minister and the Chairman of the Security Committee, where the Chairman of the Security Committee is making a proposal to limit this competence, and the Minister, on such a proposal from his own party colleague, says no, I recommend that we re-order the bill to the Security Committee. čili I propose and make a procedural motion to do a repeat of the second reading. I think this is a procedural proposal for repeating second reading, but we can, of course, argue, it is in any event a proposal in accordance with Section 95 of the Rules of Procedure, when the chairman of my club tries to correct me for not being able to read the Rules of Procedure. I think I can do it. However, I am putting forward a proposal to repeat the second reading so that we have a chance yet to order the bill to the Security Committee and ask for an opinion on how great risks we see there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u25	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. The procedural proposal for returning this point to second reading has fallen. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby before I vote on him. It is the same case that we had during this week, with the fact that it has been said that a legislative opinion will be requested. I'll ask you for a moment. [[Consulting off the microphone.]] So I will give the answer to the vote that this will be voted on after the debate is closed. While this is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote after the debate is closed. We will continue with further factual remarks. Next, Mr Petr Bendl will make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u26	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, from what has already fallen here today, I have experience from the operation of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, which is also often in a very criminal environment, after all, we have recently had experience with alcohol mining, etc., where people's lives were really at stake. And I can't imagine that the Czech Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority would not cooperate with the Police of the Czech Republic, even with those classified files, because it was a criminal crime of large scale, and I can't imagine a new police force being created, because at the moment someone here has a new identity, they appear under a different name, etc. etc. that he wouldn't be in control of possible abuse, because people are just people. Even the Chamber of Deputies has a system of control of the Security Information Service and other components that move in this area. I wonder how, and if there is any system of controlling the functioning of such powers equipped by people at all, because just say "they need it, let's give it to them" but if we don't have a system of control, then we're completely crazy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u27	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Pavel Volčík. I do not see the Member, in which case I am canceling the factual point and Mr Kolovratník, duly signed up for the debate, will speak. Mr. Ambassador. Mr Laudát will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u28	Hello, thank you for the floor, and I want to turn critically to my colleagues from ODS and say, "You must be making fun of us, colleagues and colleagues." [[President: Through me.]] Through Mr President. And why am I saying this? This law, it is probably the second time that I stand up for the Minister of Industry, but I am happy to do it this time too, it has been properly discussed in committees. I repeat, the guarantee committee was the economic committee where I was in charge last week on Wednesday, and I was there. Your colleagues, neither of them, were on the guarantee committee. I think it is unnecessary for me to now remind the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I suspect that this is § 95 para. 2 on the third reading. I understand and respect that there is an agreement here that we continue to express our views on the laws and their content at third reading. But you hear an explanation from the Minister, you hear it from the Prime Minister. Welcome to his explanation of what the dispute or political view is about, and we can decide in the third reading. And all of a sudden, we hear the litany as it was not discussed, who inherited it from whom, that there is no harmony between committees, etc. etc. I understand and honor your role as an opposition that builds and comments on the laws, but again, colleagues and colleagues, I repeat. The law was ordered to the guarantee committee, and to the economics. And here I have to confirm the Minister's words, there was the head of the COI, there was a representative of the Czech Trade Inspection, we discussed it, and that your colleagues or your representatives, or you yourself, Mrs Černochová, and Mr President Stanjura, who was there about half an hour later personally for another law, you could have come, you would have been welcome to the Economic Committee. You could have joined us in this discussion. So please do not use the third reading to make these arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u29	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. First off, Mrs Černochová, Mr Bendl and others will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A colleague of yours, Kolovratník, has demonstrated what a democrat he is. To question here the right of the Chamber of Deputies to ask the Minister at any reading what is the subject of the law, note bene when the first reading was still under another minister - so you are really being a pig, my colleague through the Vice-President! If you blame any of this House of Deputies because the Minister of Industry and Trade has actually changed here, it has been mentioned here about the new powers of the COI, so this information has been heard here from members of the government coalition, not from the opposition. Play it on the record, but really, it's absolutely... You haven't understood what this Chamber of Deputies is all about in three and a half years. [[He speaks very strongly.]] You'd understand! If your boss of your movement says it's a blabbermouth, then you, as your brains are brainwashed, you all simply approach this rhetoric! But the Chamber of Deputies is an institution to control the government of the Czech Republic and at any reading. As Members, we have the right to ask questions that are in those standards. And if you're telling anyone that he was supposed to be on this committee and on another committee, then let's do one where we'll discuss everything that comes into the House program so we can all be there. You know that these committees sit on the same dates and that it is not humanly possible for members of those committees to participate at the same time. It's not my problem, I'm on other committees, but maybe I'd really like to come and see this, but I didn't have a chance because another committee was sitting. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] So please don't train us here. We're on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and we're only doing what we're entitled to here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u31	Next, Mr Bendl will appear, Mr Stanjura will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u32	Thank you. Through Mr President to Mr Kolovratník, perhaps in a different tone, however, on the same subject. I am not a member of the Economic Committee, I haven't had a chance to be at his meetings, and I can't know perfectly the issue of every law that goes through this House. Each of you must know that. And it's unfair here to say "you can all be there." It's just not humanly possible. And I only want one simple answer: What kind of control system is drawn up against abuse of such authority? If we do, if there is any police, military, etc. in the Czech Republic. equipped with some special powers, and these extraordinary powers are, how will they be controlled by their possible abuse? 'Cause we're really going over the line. I have experience with the operation of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, those individual inspectors also go into very problematic disputes, where it is not just that they are arguing about the amount of the fine and whether it is proved or not. It's often dangerous. But they use it, and they are often very successful, using the authorities of the police, all the files that are available at that time, quite significantly, if there is a more serious problem. And it's really important to consider giving someone such authority. And it's crazy to give it to someone if I don't have a system of control built up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u33	Thank you. Today, as of 11.45, Mr Petr Adam apologizes for personal reasons. The President Stanjura will also make a point of fact, and Mr Svoboda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u34	Under the Rules of Procedure, I am responding to the debate and to Mr Kolovratník's speech. From now on, I think I'm really gonna start following up on the points discussed by the Committee on Budgets, and the moment you get off, Mr Vice-President, I'm gonna tell you, why haven't you been to our budget? That's where we could have said it. There's no logic to that. And when you said that the economic committee, yes, I was there as a translator, let's say the whole thing: I got the time to show up, I politely asked ahead that if there was a delay in the previous points, which I understand to get a message. [[unintelligible]] And what was that? You were in charge of the meeting, Mr Vice-President of the Economic Committee through the Vice-President. 30 minutes late, I didn't get a message. And that seemed normal to you. So if we're here to practice from what's collegial and who's ever supposed to come, then it's also polite to say what point is being discussed. And if there's a delay - I understand - then report it in time. And I'm saying, I asked in advance if that were to happen. You crashed my whole afternoon program, I didn't say anything. I wouldn't have talked about it if you weren't here to master us, that we were supposed to sit on your committee and tell each other. We don't even know when this is going to be discussed! I don't even know that as a drafter. We were sitting there together! Taxi drivers, taxis, and the Law on Economic and Agricultural Chambers waited and waited. And a man has a schedule. And it was committee week, and there were other committees. So if there is no argument, factual, then at least an unfair argument will apply: You should have been there. Well, I'll invite you on Wednesday, come to the budget committee, we've got a lot of interesting points. Woe to them how you will perform in plenary! So I'll ask you right away, I invited you to the front, five days! If you want, I'll forward you an invitation, or I'll ask the chairman of the budget committee here to invite Mr. Vice-President of the Economic Committee specifically. Come back and talk about the security orders at 1:30! Very interesting debate!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u35	Mr Svoboda, Mr Chalupa, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I will also respond by your means to my colleague Kolovratník. The closer the end of this parliamentary term comes, the more I am amazed at what is possible and what is being said here and how unproductive our discussions are. I would merely remind my colleague, Mr Kolovratník, that we have all taken some kind of parliamentary oath, and that, among other things, the parliamentary pledge says that I will vote and that this vote is a matter for me, my conscience and my constituents. And in order to vote, I have to have that information. And when the problem comes up in the third reading, I want an answer to it. And I wasn't on the committee, it's not my duty either. As everyone here says, we're sitting in a number of other committees, and we can't exactly follow everything. Then we wouldn't have to have that meeting tonight where we're sitting all over the House. The duty of these committees is to discuss it and to justify it to the House and convince us that the committee has made the right decision. That's all I need. And that's why I'm asking, what is it going to be? We've got the CHOI, we've got the regular girls coming into the junk and getting 20 blankets of ham, and if it's three blankets less, they're gonna file a report on it. Will they also have the option, or will they be able to give them a hidden identity and send them into a risky field? How will these people be chosen? What are their responsibilities? How will they be controlled? We're creating a new security file here. A new file that will work completely without any control. I understand what my colleague Benda says. If the CHOI has an area that is at risk, where they move - let's say it hard - criminals, the police must go there. [[Attention on time.]] Not a C.I.I.I.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u37	Thank you. Mr Chalupa will now appear, Minister Pilný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u38	Thank you. Dear ladies and gentlemen. I came in here three and a half years ago, so I came in here with respect, and I'd like this House to continue to deserve my respect. I would like to call on the President to maintain a kind of debate. I'm definitely not here to listen to words like pigs or brainwashed. A colleague of yours is probably on the move this morning, I understand. However, let us maintain our decency! You've never heard a vulgar expression from me here, and if so, I was just repeating it now after someone who said it here. And as for that, I agree with the previous speaker through you, this is indeed an unproductive discussion. Because in our country, the law will come by first reading and we have the rapporteur on the committee. These newsletters process it, they go to the committees, they go to second reading, they inform their club about it, and if anybody has a problem at the club, the rapporteur learns about it, and he goes to the committees to solve the problem. Because that third reading really isn't about what's to be dealt with on those committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u39	Thank you, too. Now Minister Pilný, Mrs Černochová will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, even though I belong to the sack of washed-out heads, which Mrs Černochová has marked here, I would repeat the basic facts in my washed-out head. This law here was discussed at first reading, at second reading. It was discussed three times in total on the Economic Committee. I was no longer chairman of the Economic Committee at that last meeting, so I don't know how it went there. But I must point out that, during those first two discussions, there were virtually no opponents talking about it at all. And if they were there, they didn't express themselves at all. So what are we talking about here? I'm sorry, I'm not that emotional, but the brainwashed one can only talk about facts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u41	Thank you. Now, Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u42	That's still a circle. I don't know if the Minister of Finance sat on his ears and didn't hear what colleague Stanjura said here, why he couldn't be on the committee at the time when this was discussed. But I guess it's really throwing pea on the wall. But about what my colleague Chalupa said here through the Vice-President. Yes, indeed, my colleague Chalupa may speak completely senseless here at times, so even his own colleagues don't understand him, but he doesn't speak dirty. Mr. former Minister of Finance and the head of their Babiš movement, he has a refined vocabulary. The fact that he decided to campaign and not go to work until the end of his term is another matter. But I guess because you don't see him here very often, you've forgotten what kind of dictionary, what kind of insults this gentleman here used to use, the way he used us. [[11.50 hours]] The fact that he decided to campaign and not go to work until the end of his term is another matter. But I guess because you don't see him here very often, you've forgotten what kind of dictionary, what kind of insults this gentleman here used to use, the way he used us. And if one of our colleagues starts denying parliamentary democracy and its principles in a completely unfair way, I will respond. And I will respond to that in the way that I have responded to it, because it really is not helpful to whom there is no advice. And perhaps the President of the Election Committee should finally read the Constitution of the Czech Republic and learn something from the history of parliamentaryism in our countries, so that he knows what this tradition is built on and why and how procedures are taking place in Parliament, in both chambers of our Parliament. So I would ask through the Vice-President that what Mr Chalupa said here rather be directed to his boss. And if we, as the opposition, want to know things, do not take away our right at any reading, otherwise you deny that the Chamber of Deputies is indeed a democratic body in our society. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u43	For the record, I will just repeat that, regardless of whether a member of this Chamber is a Member or a Minister, he should speak politely to his colleagues. Now, with a point of fact, Minister Pilný, Mrs Šánová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I do not dare to speculate what Mrs Černochová was sitting on when I spoke, but I was talking about the members of the Economic Committee, not President Stanjur. I was talking about members of the Economic Committee. That's one. Second, as regards the change in the person of the Minister. So the change of the Minister's person didn't bring a single change, the only letter in the law. So it has nothing to do with the exchange of ministers. I hope I was heard exactly as I said it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u45	Thank you. And now, with Mrs Šánová's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask you, Mr Vice-President, Mr President, that my colleague, Mr Černochová, as an ANO club, publicly apologizes to us on the microphone for calling us - 47 people - brainwashed and our fellow peeper! If we let go of these expressions, what will we learn from Mrs. Černochová next time? [[Upset.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u47	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Černochová. Before I give you my word, Madam, I will ask you, colleagues and colleagues... [[Still noisy.]] Colleagues and colleagues! I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through you to Mrs. Šánová. I'll be happy to tell you another assessment of your movement, but only when the head of your movement comes out here and apologizes to all of us for the sentences that they're stealing, that there are at least five thieves in this House, and other totally dirty things that have been said here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u49	So... We will continue the general debate and I will ask Mr Laudát. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u50	Thank you for the floor. When the YES movement, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, is upset and you ask for an apology, I will also join Mrs Černochová and ask you to apologize for your chairman. You know, I'm a memorial. And it's always at the beginning of the parliamentary term, when someone breaks the barrier of the dictionary, then it's happening in the entire House for the rest of the parliamentary term. During the past period, things came to the public and actually managed somehow to maintain about two meetings of decorum. Even David Rath was uncomfortable, and first he fired something here, and then it went on for the rest of his term, and of course it grabbed. First of all. Two. Social democracy is now worried about what happens after the election if Babiš wins a lot. People's people are wonders not fighters for saving democracy, at least I hear it. So, folks, this is the third institution, or I don't know how many, maybe even bigger, which will have police powers, if you don't get it. Who here pointed it out in the first reading to your surprise, because no one read it, it was me. And I'll admit that the CHI isn't exactly my subject, and if I didn't happen to get a message on the radio that they're going to change their identity, then maybe I wouldn't have picked it up until second reading. They protested here, or it didn't seem like it, and you felt surprised. This has in no way prevented you from voting for the coalition's votes that the relevant Security Committees should go through to deal with it, too, because the COI belongs to the industry, the industry belongs to the economic committee. You blocked it. There's a dog buried there, and he was talking about it - and a very serious dog - a colleague of Váňa. So besides the fact that what's legitimate and the powers are expanding significantly, it belongs to the Ministry of the Interior. It's supposed to have its own police, it's got it. We've strengthened the army a lot here. Then he started building his own police for the departure of Šlachta through the customs administration of the finance ex-minister Babiš. And the industry officials. Because I don't blame Mr. Exminister Mládek, but the officials made up that the Ministry of Industry and Trade should have its own police. So in that case, I suppose it would be appropriate for the Minister of Health to Ludvík out here and say he's asking too. Because I don't know if there are any more paramedics at risk who are being attacked in critical situations by psychopaths, often by injured people, and are among the very risky. If the Minister of Transport comes, too, that he needs his police, even though he's on the railroad... Because if anyone is significantly more at risk - and I have heard about incidents and attacks by conductors and guides, not that it is so hot with the Czech Trade Inspection. And I said after the first reading in the Economic Committee, I wasn't on the next one because I was out of business, but I told the representatives of the COI - but if you're at great risk, take the police with you. And as far as I know, the hits, at least in front of the TV cameras, are happening in cooperation with the police. I say we stop the law until Mr. Ludvík gets here, he doesn't come, and maybe there'll be others. In the environment, right? Go and attack someone that he's broken the environment... Mr. Brabec, the trouble sweeper, the environmental sweeper, for certain companies and holding companies, should probably get a security team, too. Why don't they have those powers? I mean, the disabled who can get million dollar tickets and even bigger... They may also be in danger of life or health. Where does it stop? You don't weigh the weight of how these laws can be bent and abused. I'm calling on the people and the Social Democrats here to stop telling people that now they're going to be the freedom and democracy fighters. Because here it's another one of the laws, or an amendment to laws that fights freedom that gives to blankets, potato pots, or I don't know what everything... I'm not talking about the big fish around the gas station. But there I say - why don't they invite the police with them to these meetings and interventions? We've got enough cops for the population most in Europe, so why not? And why it's been going so far. [[12.00 hours]] I wanted them to prove how many times a commercial inspection officer has been attacked, how many times there have been physical damage, how many times he has been verbally assaulted. We didn't get any numbers unless it happened on the last economic committee. Don't say anything about democratic negotiations. You want to put more authority in that one section than most of the police security personnel do. You've blocked it to deal with this committee here in the House. Don't talk about a fair discussion of this matter. It's just not fair. You guys should deal with that in some way. That's why it's completely legitimate and there's a procedural proposal to return the second reading and make this thing right. In this situation, I am not at all sure that a proposal from my colleague Váňa will be passed, who has tabled an amendment that would exclude this power. I really can't go on like this. So let's face it, everyone in the coalition, you're building a totalitarian state, that citizens are meant to serve the state and be terrorized by the state, not to set up their own state to serve them. For four years, you've been bending this place into total outrage. And that Babiš doesn't use it, you'll see after the election. I know many examples of politicians from Prague when some crooks prepared it for four years and then struck. I'm not saying you're gonna do it, but a lot of you aren't gonna be here any more than I am. I warn you, the first victims of such manners are those who swept the way. And you're sweeping it. You three - KDU-ČSL, YES movement and social democracy. It's just reality. And you lie to people, you just lie to people what you really do! A further comment was made when colleague Stanjura invited Mr Kolovratník to the Committee on Budgets. I think Mr. Kolovratník would suffer a shock because, finally, after three and three quarters of the term of office, the real information about the state's status has begun to fall out. You don't have the money to cover legal claims, for example in education. Don't you know? Ask your new finance minister. You're sending it underwater. And the kolovratník who fights, I must admit, for this country to invest in transport infrastructure, would learn a very unpleasant thing, namely that it will not be for investment, or at the cost of doubling the state debt by swinging. There's just no money. You've been eating up economic growth for four years. And you're very fond of going back to the past and comparing it to that. Mr. Finance Minister isn't surprised now that he opened the imaginary safe at the Treasury Department he found there. It reminds me a little bit, I think the London Times, which wrote: "For so long, different derivatives and investment packages were being made, and when they opened up in the 2008 financial crisis, it got pretty messy." Well, I guess you know what the biggest celebrities in the world were signing on to. It's starting to remind me that the state register is toxic, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u51	Please do not shout at yourself, honourable Members and Members. If you need to get out, you can use the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u52	I'll admit I haven't been getting off much lately, so hopefully you'll be able to handle it. I just want to tell you when you're gonna cry in a year, in two, where you've done it with this country, and now it's especially about the YES movement, so you know that someone's been telling you what you're doing, what you're involved in. You'll serve someone as useful as you know what. To your own. I designed it, and I hope it's out there somewhere so the law can be rejected at third reading. I mean, I've been making suggestions, it's been going on for a while, to get it back to previous readings. There was another proposal today, so we're going to vote on it. I really warn you to pass these other laws. Excuse me, stop fooling around. You don't really create a completely safe country, or at the cost of not being free to spy on everyone every step of the way, like the Prague City Hall's leadership, it's the first time since the 1990s he hasn't invested. And the only thing they can do is pass a job to somebody and install more and more cameras on the streets. That's great. That's the only investment they can make in four years of their operation. The fact that people are not relieved and that of course the time has passed ahead of development is another thing, and you are building the same thing through legislation. I beg you very strongly to reject the law, or let us return it. I would very much like to hear the official position here and a detailed analysis of what was happening in the CHOI, how they intervened. To put the numbers on the table. I don't know them, I don't see them, I didn't hear them. Tell them to put the whys on the table. It's just a general thing to say here. But actually, when you have enforcers around insolvency and all that, do executors have their own police? Why didn't you modify when there was an insolvency law to change their identity? I think everyone has to act clearly, openly and honestly. The police have their numbers, that's where it's at. But don't be mad at me, it's going to be hugely abused. For the first time, I warned on the Economic Committee because there are no control mechanisms. Now we're talking about the fact that all the services that have power powers will be under the control of the House, which have been newly established, where any other higher degree of control over the COI is. If the Minister and all those who want to vote for the law could vote, get in here and start saying yes, the CHOI and the possible abuse of this power will be controlled by him, him and him. And it can't be controlled by the institution that runs it. I guess we can agree that's true. You can see for yourself that there are problems with Gibs, and that is being pulled away from the police, and yet certain problems are probably due to past ties, or I don't know. There is also a problem with doctors when their hand washes in a small Czech house. But there isn't even a reverse insurance policy for who would control them if I'd let that happen. And really consider, of course, this is an economic crime, it's not a violent crime, so please tell me where the insurance is. In order for some Members not to be nervous that I am speaking for even longer, I will be done. However, I appeal again to you. Or stop lying to people in election campaigns and tell them what you're really up to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u53	Thank you. For the record, Mr. Ambassador, as I have on my behalf from the Guarantee Committee, the motion to dismiss the law has not been filed. We will now proceed to factual remarks. First, Mr. Janulík, Minister Pilný and others will be prepared. The Member cancels the factual point, so I will ask the Minister, Mr Bendl will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to respond, even if it has nothing to do with this, to the alarms that Mr Laudát is spreading here through immunity. I didn't find anything stinking, nothing toxic in the state register. When I said it was empty, I meant that the state reserve was empty and that what was spared my predecessor for what was adopted by the Government resolution was also emptied. I don't know where information is coming from that he won't be on the transport infrastructure, because Mr Laudát seems to know more than the Minister of Finance. I don't have that kind of information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u55	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Bendl, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u56	For those of you who feel like I've been performing for the third time and that I may be stalling, I mean, it's because I still haven't gotten a material answer. So for the third time, I ask the Minister what control mechanisms I would almost say for the emergence of a new kind of police force, because it will be people equipped with almost police powers, what system of control for these controllers you have invented, how it is set up. Because quite logically, if we do this for the Czech Trade Inspection, in a few moments more bodies and organizations with similar arguments will come up, almost irrefutable. They'll say when you gave it to the CHOI, we're in the same danger, we need the same powers and the same powers. Minister, I'm asking for an answer! Or you won't answer, and then it's the answer. That means either you don't know or you don't have any control set up. I don't know what's worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u57	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Laudát. Just for the sake of order regarding the rejection of the law, I note that the motion for rejection fell at first reading, not in second reading, so that it could be voted on during the third reading. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have already explained this, because unfortunately, common sense does not always work on the Economic Committee. So when the Economic Committee gave the recommendation to approve the amendment to the Labour Code, it was an anti-economic resolution, so it is no wonder that it simply supports such a thing as the COI. I'm not surprised at all. First of all. Two. To the Minister of Finance. So no matter what the number for next year will be, what the budget will be, how many of these are legal claims, how much do you want to push through the laws that will increase the mandatorial spending by the end of the term, and then we'll argue about how much of the transport infrastructure will actually be left behind. It's pretty simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u59	I thank you and ask if anyone else is joining the debate. Since I do not see any further applications, I am ending the debate. I ask the appellant or rapporteur whether you want to take the final floor. Not the plaintiff. The rapporteur? Not either. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments and first we will vote on... [[The rapporteur shall take the floor.]] So, rapporteur, do you want to sum it up? Okay. Please take the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u60	Have a nice day, Mr President, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Before I introduce you to the procedure, I would like to respond to what has been said here before the vote. I believe that the way this amendment is set up, including a hidden identity, ensures that inspectors' work is made more effective. I would like to see those who did not have the opportunity to come to the Economic Committee, when representatives of the Czech Trade Inspection came and explained to us the risks and risks of their privacy, as mentioned by the Minister and actually my colleague Kudela through the President. According to the information they gave us, it would be who would have the hidden identity, just a few workers. This does not mean that every employee of the Czech Trade Inspection will have a hidden identity or cover documents. It will work by the Central Director of the Czech Trade Inspection asking the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Industry and Trade to consider it, and if they approve it, the Ministry of Interior will ask which cover documents will be issued and kept in the register. So there's a check like that. This is all I wanted to add in response to Mr Laudát through the President. Now, if I may, as a rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u61	There. I've logged the application for your check-out, so I'll check you all out first, and I'll ask you to sign up with your cards. And before we proceed to the vote on the amendments, we will first vote on Mr Benda's proposal, which put forward a procedural proposal to return this bill to second reading. I therefore begin the vote and ask who is in favour of returning this proposal to second reading, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with serial number 327. 107 Members are registered, for proposal 26, against 71. This proposal was rejected. We will therefore now proceed to the vote on the amendments, and I ask you, rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, to introduce us to the voting procedure and then to the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u62	Thank you, Mr President. The Economic Committee discussed and recommended this procedure at its 53rd meeting on 31 May 2017. First, we would vote on the amendments under letter A as a whole. These are actually adopted by the Economic Committee with which the Economic Committee has identified itself. We would then vote separately on the amendments under letter B1 and letter B2 of Mr Váňa, which he presented at second reading, and then on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u63	I still need to clarify - didn't any technical modifications fall at the third reading? [[No.]] That means the first point looks automatic to us. Okay. So I'm asking if anyone has a proposal for another voting procedure. I can't see, in which case I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the proposed voting procedure, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 328, registered 112 Members, for proposal 111, against none. The procedure has been approved, and please, rapporteur, let us see you through the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u64	We will be the first to vote on the amendments under A. Firstly, it is actually a delay in effectiveness on 1 November, because on 1 July we will not be able to make it. And we are also dealing with the fact that we include the provisions of Section 16, which would exclude the application of Section 92 of the Act on Liability for Misdemeanors, which we have already approved here, if sanctions were imposed by the Czech Trade Inspection Inspectors on the spot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u65	The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommends.]] The Minister's position? [[Yes, I agree.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 329, registered 112 Members and Members, for proposal 108, against no one. This proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u66	And now we will vote on Amendment B1, as I have already said, presented at second reading by Mr Váňa. In fact, there is a solution for inspectors to use a changed identity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u67	Thank you. The position of the guarantee committee? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 330, with 112 Members registered, for proposal 33, against 41. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u68	We would now vote on Amendment B2. This amendment follows Amendment B1 and repeals paragraphs that address the changed identity - both the means of cover and the supporting documents. The Economic Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-09-ps2013-057-12-007-278.u69	Thank you. The Minister's position? [[Negative.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 331, registered 112 Members and Members, for proposal 30, against 43. This proposal was rejected. I think we voted on all the amendments, and we would now vote on the proposal as a whole. [[12.20 hours]] I will therefore read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 64/1986 Coll., on Czech Trade Inspection, as amended, and Act No. 634/1992 Coll., on Consumer Protection, as amended, according to the House's press 995, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 332, registered with 113 Members, for proposal 79, against 25. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. Now we're going to go back to the interrupted point and that's
