ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u1	12. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Paris Agreement /German press 932/ - second reading I ask that the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to say anything new in connection with the Paris Agreement in this honourable House. I think we've dealt with this point so many times, I wouldn't want to delay any debate, of course. I would just say perhaps the most up-to-date information - so far, the Paris Agreement has ratified 160 states of the world. We are now definitely the last country in the European Union, because the Netherlands has already ratified, so we are the last country in the European Union that has not yet completed the ratification process. You know the Senate approved ratification in April. Let me just say in a nutshell that I consider the Paris Agreement to be a contribution of the Czech Republic, albeit small in our CO2 emissions, but a contribution to what is really the last global effort to break the trend in the constant increase in greenhouse gas emissions in the world. I think what's happening to the weather, which I think we're recording, is now all of us, is clear evidence, and I've already said that climate change doesn't only affect polar bears or Pacific islands, but climate change is increasingly affecting and will affect the lives of each of us through extreme weather, floods, droughts, and I don't think that I need to convince anyone that the speeches in the Czech Republic are dramatic. Unfortunately, other scenarios clearly indicate or confirm the fact that the speeches will continue to deteriorate. I think the world has a real last chance of trying to do something about it. The attempt is the Paris Agreement. And it's up to us to join this effort. I'd like that very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u3	Thank you, Minister. This House press has been ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee and the Committee on the Environment. The Committees resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 932/1 and 932/2. I ask that the rapporteurs take the floor gradually and justify the resolution. First of all, the Foreign Committee rapporteur, Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u4	Thank you for the floor. The Foreign Committee discussed this press at its meeting on 12 July. As a result, it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies agree to ratify the Paris Agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u5	Thank you. Now please the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Jiří Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just in a hurry. The Committee on the Environment dealt with the Paris Agreement at its meeting on 13 July 2017 and, like the Committee on Foreign Affairs, he recommended to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution that the Chamber of Deputies agreed to ratify the Paris Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am now opening the debate to which President Zbyněk Stanjura is reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u8	Thank you for the floor. Although many of you constantly interpret how the ODS does obstruction at that point, in my opinion, we have spent less time on this discussion than we should have. However, I want to remind you of something else before I return to the Paris Agreement. Last week we read an evaluation of the efficiency of biofuels on many servers. And I would recommend that you all read the statements of activists and supporters of the first generation's biofuels about 12 to 14 years ago. It's like they're the same words as today, just instead of words... [[Silence. The President wants to ask for peace, Mr Stanjura enters into his speech and continues.]] Some laugh about it, those biofuels, I understand, I'd laugh about it too. Take the old speeches and compare them with those speeches on the Paris Agreement this year. Just exchange the words of the Paris Agreement for the words of the first generation biofuels, and it's actually exactly the same. We gotta, we gotta, we gotta, we gotta, we gotta, we gotta, we gotta, we gotta, we gotta, we gotta, we gotta, we gotta, Anyone who opposes is a returnee, doesn't want to protect nature, it's terrible. Then and today. They're all in the same article today: "We haven't succeeded, ladies and gentlemen. The first generation biofuels didn't contribute. If only they'd apologized to those who were against it. No, they have a new idol, a new fight, a new modern one. And we are saying this precisely because when the Chamber of Deputies sits here in ten years and we read articles: Ten years after the ratification of the Paris Agreement, it turns out that it doesn't work, 100 billion a year thrown out in vain, nothing has improved. We got a new one. I don't know if it's Lisbon, London, Berlin or any other. And the same people - the rapporteur laughs, he must have been for biofuels ten years ago. Mr rapporteur through Mr President, I am almost sure, although I have not checked in any way. Why are those who supported it so modestly today? Because they have something new. We're here to ask the government for an impact analysis. We got nothing. In Czech it means we got nothing. Or did we get nothing? No analysis. But we hear, "We're the last ones." That's right, Minister. That's the last of us. So what? Were we the first, last, or in the middle when it was first generation biofuels? I don't know. You might know, or your office might know. Today, if we were to ask those politicians, there was no one for it. Maybe those who make it were in favor, since they already knew it was good. But today, when you ask our predecessors who pushed for it, who was in favour, who was making flaming speeches about the benefits of biofuels... So read the evaluation of the experts that did this to land, agriculture, the environment, climate protection. Plus none. Well, except for economics, but I don't want to talk about that today. And we hear those phrases all over again. The minister took over the dictionary completely. The only thing they're afraid of: they point the finger at me that I'm the last. But that's no argument. Simple question. Why is there a goal to keep it below two degrees before the industrial revolution? Why not one or three? I don't know. Someone did it like that, it's a Bulgarian constant, like they used to say, and it's there. And now I can go on. But I won't keep you. Only when the signatories turn away from it, like some major signatories have already turned away from it... And the absurdity. The conservationists said: Who is the key partner today and the one to guarantee the achievement of the Paris Climate Agreement's goals worldwide? [[unintelligible]] The People's Republic of China! That's the way it is. This is the new hope of climate protection. The People's Republic of China. And they're serious. So ask the steelworkers, for example in the Moravian-Silesian Region, what the conditions of our steelworks are and what the conditions of the Chinese steelworks are. How fair competition is. If they have such limits in China as we do. If they had to invest tens of billions in environmental protection. I think that without being experts in the steel industry, we can find our own answers. And that's all there is to it, Minister. It will probably pass today, you will issue a press release, celebrating how the YES movement has enforced ratification of the Paris Agreement. Well, I suggest if we're still in the world in ten years to figure out how it works, how the money flows... Who's gonna pay them if America doesn't pay? How much will be the share of the Czech Republic? Are we mature countries or are we not? Are we going to participate in this, or are we not going to participate? If we're involved, how much money is it going to be a year? Which chapter will it be from? The Minister didn't tell us any of this during his many discussions, as he says. So this is a deal to pay for 100 years, not enforceable, not sanctioned - but beware, ladies and gentlemen, we are the last in Europe!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u9	President Kalousek, after whom Mr Jan zahradník.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u10	Thank you for the floor. I've only been very brief. I am not taking anybody's position, which was presented by Mr Stanjura, for example, and which is based on skepticism on these agreements and also on skepticism on whether there is any such thing as climate change and the risks arising from it. Please. That's legitimate to think so, and it's legitimate to stand up for such a position. I'm in the opposite position. But what I find a little unfair is to compare biofuels and the Paris Agreement as two comparable fragments. The Paris Agreement is some international agreement that sets goals, first generation biofuels is an instrument that has been chosen as one of many instruments that should lead to those objectives, and this instrument has proved and proved to be a blind, even harmful way. That's right. But that doesn't call the targets into question. If I find out that I took a screwdriver on something and that it was a really stupid idea, it doesn't mean I don't want to fix it and I don't have to take another instrument. So I beg to differ with this comparison, I dare to protest against that. Otherwise, I respect that opinion, even though I have the opposite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u11	Let's make some de facto remarks. Mr Zemek and Mr Urban and then Mr Zahradník, Kostřica, Fiedler, duly signed in. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, rapporteur, your factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u12	Thank you. I'm just really quick on those amounts. There it is calculated that a year should choose about 100 billion. It's within the scope of the treaty's signatories. The fact is, the contributions are voluntary. Last year it was selected among the existing signatories 65 billion. It should be noted that the United States, which have withdrawn from the agreement or wishing to withdraw, participated in this by one billion. Of the 65 billion. The United States has only paid one billion in this. As far as the Czech Republic is concerned, the Czech Republic, because it was a signatory of the Kyoto Protocol, has contributed around EUR 38,000 and it can be assumed that our contribution will be similar or similar. So many just numbers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u13	Thank you. Mr Urban and his factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. This is not a word for those who want a better environment and those who prevent it. It's not like that at all. She's really repeating the situation. There is always a general standard that says some goals that seem to be respectable, and then follow concrete steps and concrete impacts. And we, instructed by what was here, say: Tell us what tools you want to achieve these goals and what costs it will have. What will be the cost of industry, what will be the cost of citizens of the Czech Republic. And that's not what you're capable of, or you don't want to be told at the moment. And I think, and I warn - the Czech Republic precisely because industry feeds it, precisely because industry in the Czech Republic has more than 31 percent share of gross domestic product - by the way, the European Union member countries want to achieve some 21 percent and they do not have it - that is why this question is much more sensitive in the Czech Republic. Because all these interventions can significantly affect the competitiveness of Czech companies and thus employment, and thus the standard of living of citizens. And I think it's very easy to say: there's just some global vision that doesn't agree with it and who's the last one here, so it's kind of a scoundrel, that's just the time, fashion trends are fashion trends... Then he should realize the responsibility he has. And I, if you tell me the tools we're going to go and what impact we can expect, then I can think about possibly supporting it. As long as you do not say such instruments and impacts, I cannot support this, given the responsibility for the Czech industry. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u15	With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u16	First of all, the numbers of the rapporteur. And I take it they're true. It's supposed to be 100 billion a year, and we have 65. Well, if it was once-- we're almost there. That's supposed to be every year, isn't it, rapporteur? [[He's turning to the reporter Zemka. Rapporteur: Yes.]] $100 billion a year. And we've already picked 65. How long? Why not 100? First of all. Two. Don't you feel a little hypocritical? We are to be progressive, modern, worldly, to contribute to the fight of the climate - well, don't worry, it will cost us 34,000 euros a year. It's pretty cheap to be progressive, modern, and I don't know what everything is. And that's supposed to be an argument. Like if you're serious, 34,000 euros, I agree with you, there's not a lot of money. But is that the money that will help fight the climate in those other countries? I don't know. And now for what President Kalousek said. He put two things in one plane. I was talking about being skeptical about this deal. I didn't say I was skeptical about protecting the environment, that I thought it was conservative value. I just resent the activism of many who, as Mr Urban said, will find a new idol. They're pushing it now. Why not, I respect that opinion. What bothers me is that anyone who has a different opinion or doubts immediately has a label of one who falls under the industrial lobby, the concrete lobby, doesn't like the environment... And it's just not like that! Look at the way the proponents advocated it. Nothing. Nothing in particular. We can agree on those targets. There's nothing wrong with that. And when I ask who's gonna enforce it. Nobody, ladies and gentlemen! What are the sanctions in the contract? None, ladies and gentlemen. No sanctions! So ask yourself, if you would sign a private contract as a Contracting Party that would last 83 years, the other Contracting Parties should not... it would not be enforceable, and if the other Contracting Parties were to break it, they would not have any sanctions. What's that for? Answer honestly if you would sign such a contract for yourself. I answer honestly for myself: well, I didn't. What's that for? Useless! That's how they held hands to get high, and now we've signed it, we've got it. That's all. How much did it cost to negotiate? Humans, for example, or man-hours. I don't think anyone knows. I saw those triumphant pictures of those who finally signed it. But what of it? How will we sanction signatories who fail to comply? How, Minister? Try telling me how we can do this. Nothing! You know how difficult it is to negotiate air protection with our neighbors in the Moravian-Silesian region. You know how complicated it is. And I don't blame you for not being able to. Really, you don't have any tools to convince that partner to make the position of his business more difficult and put them at the level of our businesses. We tried, you tried, and the result is what? One big zero. But here's where we're supposed to sign, and we're supposed to believe, and... we're supposed to be cursing. I don't want to get bullied that I'm against the environment. Nothing like that is true. Neither I nor our party. We're just very skeptical about it. So try to tell us what happens to the signatories who won't do it and what the sanctions are. Those are simple questions for every contract. I'd ask for some answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u17	Thank you, Prime Minister. With a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u18	Basically, I just want to apologize to President Stanjur. Of course, I accept the argument that the rejection of the law on national parks and the rejection of the Paris Agreement result from a clear love of the environment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u19	Well, thank you. There's a general consensus in this room. And another duly registered member is Mr Jan Zahradník. After that, Mr Kostřica and Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u20	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have spoken many times to the Paris Agreement and have tried to avert the firm decisions of a part of the House for ratification of the Paris Agreement in my speeches. I used arguments, whether in terms of economic, political, but also purely ecological, based on the views of renowned experts. None of this was valid. President Stanjura mentioned here an example of how such godly intentions can go wrong. There's more of those intentions. After all, we remember what it was like when maybe 20 years ago all environmentalists started promoting diesel engines that might be more environmentally friendly from the point of view of carbon dioxide production. Today it turns out that the owners of diesel engines or diesel cars are almost public enemies and will be banned from entering cities. I personally remember when I was the captain, how massive pressure was on the part of environmentalists and political representatives of the ecological direction, i.e. from the Green Party, Mr Martin Bursík, the Rainbow Movement, the Green Circle and others, to increase the share of renewable resources. That we simply have to have 17 percent of renewable resources by 2010. The pressure was just very massive, and whoever didn't share that opinion absolutely enthusiasticly was called an enemy and a spoiler. Where this pressure has led us, we finally know. And the Green Circle itself criticizes this decision, which he also contributed to. Well, I figured I'd try to reverse your decision with some arguments after all. Recently, on 1 September, an important climatetologist Jan Pretel, who - I will now quote from this interview - led the Department of Climate Change in the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute from 1993 to 2012, is currently the scientific secretary of the same institute and worked as an external consultant for the Ministry of the Minister of the Environment. He was also very active on international soil. From 1996 to 2009, he represented the Czech Republic in the UN Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and from 1997 to 2002 he was a member of its Committee. Even from 1991 to 2006 he was a member of various negotiating teams to the framework agreement, i.e. the Kyoto Protocol. So a person who really, really knows a lot about it, has been through a lot in these things. [[18.00 hours]] He used to be an enthusiastic supporter of international activities, international initiatives that fought CO2 emissions. At present, these efforts no longer seem so certain to him, at least that is what he is suggesting in the talks, expressing significant doubts about them. Hospodarske noviny also asks whether we have enough evidence to say that global warming is linked to human activity. Pretel says: "Yes, of course, we do, we live on Earth in some way each and every one of us, by our actions, contribute to the overall climate of our planet. " Every feather, I say, which falls sparrows from the tail, somehow affects the way the world goes. Professor Pretel adds, however, that part of the scientific community primarily for self-interest reasons immediately sets an equal footing between human activity, warming and greenhouse gas emissions, namely carbon dioxide. He says it's so easy to do this. "The real essence, however, is this," I quote Mr Pretel, "that the climate system is extremely complicated. His files communicate with each other. It's a nonlinear system, in a time of non-stationary and chaotic... It is true that CO2 emissions actually increase the greenhouse effect and therefore temperature, but only if they are otherwise stable conditions. In order to do so, the system should not be chaotic, it would have to be stable, stable." Clearly, only emissions are not involved in the increase in temperature. Pretel gives an example: "When we go back 300 years in time, we reach the time when the so-called small ice age ended and there was significant, rather dramatic warming. " However, there were no significant massive CO2 emissions at the time, there were no sources that would have caused them and that we now take credit for, we blame ourselves for. It says that no emissions before the industrial revolution, where the authors of the Paris Agreement put the beginning of warming, do not see, yet even then the climate began to change and the temperature of the planet was rising. Hospodarske noviny is asking what to do next. Does it make sense to sign such agreements as Kyoto or now the Paris Agreement? Mr Pretel has been in negotiations since the beginning, since 1991, when the framework agreement for climate change was being prepared. That wasn't kjótský protocol yet. Then he was involved in negotiations for the Kyoto Protocol, and he ended up sitting in Kyoto itself when the protocol was resolved in the morning. I note that the similarity to Paris is quite significant. They also acted dramatically until God's morning, and then only triumphantly came before the world with the Paris Agreement. At that time, the scientific community lacked knowledge. It was clear that it was getting warmer, but a lot of information was shorthanded. The whole Kyoto Protocol was based on the fact that everything is happening and everything is due primarily to CO2 emissions. And the fact that advanced states that have evolved by issuing more CO2 have to adjust their emissions policy and commit to certain reductions. Gradually, new knowledge appeared, and it was also revealed that the industrial states that undertook to implement the Kyoto Protocol did not comply with it. The Američan and Rus even ignored him. Kyoto ended in 2012, i.e. the protocol, when differences were to be assessed compared to 2090, and a new platform was to be created in the meantime, which would look further into the future and into which developing countries would also be newly involved. But Mr Pretel said there were still some meetings that were not going anywhere. He saw the unwelcome, started talking about it, started criticizing it. He says himself, and now I quote exactly, "And it disliked me, I ran. My thesis was that we need to start dealing mainly with how to adapt to climate change, because they are obviously happening." Yes, no one's questioning that. But what we question, and I add to it, is the guilt that humanity takes on itself, the guilt that we take on ourselves, that it is our fault that we have to sacrifice ourselves and to limit our activity almost to a minimum as the temperature rises. In 2009, Mr Pretel finally left the UN Intergovernmental Panel. Hospodarske noviny logically asks whether there were some doubts among other people who were in Kyoto and were involved. Was there any awareness that it doesn't work globally, that there are problems with applying protocol? Pretel says: "Yes, when there was a coffee break, people talked about it, people admitted it, but not officially. He's not bad business to ride several times a year to meet to very attractive destinations. It makes it hard to get out." The Hospodářské noviny is also asking about some shift that the Paris Agreement should represent. Mr. Pretel says, "No big shift." The adaptation measures are already mentioned here, the European Union is starting to talk about them. Even here was the intention of issuing some European regulation, but that is nonsense. Europe, which produces 10 percent of its emissions, cannot commit itself and take on the shoulders of saving the world. Sum of sum, Paris - a lot of words, like the Kyoto Protocol. Temperature increase by one and a half degrees, respectively keeping the temperature rise below two, possibly with a more ambitious plan of one and a half degrees Celsius by 2050, respectively by the end of the century. According to Mr Pretel, the measure is not feasible. If the system were linear, stationary, it wasn't chaotic, something similar could be determined and said that we could influence something like this, but the climate system isn't. It's not stationary, it's chaotic, and that's why it's misguided to commit to something like this for a hundred years. We work with models, of course. It's important what parameters we put into them. These are models that work with warming up by the end of the century. We're talking about models that show an increase of 4 percent by the end of the century. Do we know how many people there will be on the planet by then? Are we able to accurately predict the population of our planet by the end of the century? Are we able to predict the economic development of our country? What will be the world's GDP? What will be the energy sources? Are we going to keep burning fossil fuels, or is humanity finally going to come up with some new way to get energy that wasn't based on somehow heating hot water in the boiler and then running it through the turbine and the generator, and we're taking off the power on the output? "The Paris Agreement," I quote Mr Pretel, "was a great theatre that had to be played because the preparation of the successor to the Kyoto Protocol collapsed. Something had to be done. In ancient times, the church said that people must be kind, must not be angry, or bůh will become angry with them and send a terrible disaster. And now it repeats itself, people need to be held in fear. And what's the disaster? Will all the living on the planet die out? Will the oceans flood us?" We must have an answer, and I say this, each of us alone, whether we are able to do this. I agree with Mr Pretel, who further answers that it is right to behave ecologically, that it is right to develop austerity technologies, that is a very good way to go, but the Paris Agreement is just a commitment that does not oblige anyone to do anything. [[18.10 hours]] President Stanjura asked the Minister here what ties, what obligations, what coercive means the Paris Agreement offers. We'll have a duty here every two years to write down how far we've progressed, what we've worked out over the past two years. President Stanjura mentioned here that when the US resigned, the entire weight of the world's guarantee of the Paris Agreement on China remains. China is a big producer, of course, we know that, it is about 18 percent involved in emissions, but at the same time we are all, and I hope that my colleagues from TOP 09 too, skeptical of whether China will be able and willing to respect the commitments that, now that it is advantageous for it, are politically very ostentatious. Whether, when it ceases to be so beneficial for her, she will not sweep her obligations under the table. Finally, Hospodářské noviny here is asking a question about the link between global warming and climate change with water-economic problems, which Mr Pretel confirms, and I will also join it. I think drying needs to be effectively defended. Now I say that I have always supported the muddying of ponds, I have always criticized the introduction of the wilderness in Sumava, in spite of all possible opinions called. scientists who are drying out, that is obvious, and which unfortunately can dry even further if the wilderness is really 50 percent of its territory, as you, the majority of the government, before, now I don't know if they've finally approved for six months, and with all seriousness. I am calling you now to consider your decision not to take account of the Minister's formal call to draw attention to the fact that we are the last post-schoolers who are still sitting somewhere and do not have school assignments completed, our more diligent classmates are already at lunch, and we are still not finished with the task that the great teacher, the European Union or the global environmental summit, has commissioned the world ecological lobby from Paris. Consider it, dear friends, consider the vote also for these reasons, which I have tried to quote here from the ideas of an important climatetologist, a person whom I respect very much, I have never had the pleasure of meeting him personally, but whose opinions I have always followed and whose opinions I subscribe to. Finally, I would like to mention a few formal things, which we certainly need to be aware of before we proceed to this vote. Our vote will follow the Rules of Procedure, respectively. According to the Act on Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Part 15, negotiations on international agreements, namely Section 108. Here is the process which must be passed by the international treaty, if it is to be ratified by our House. Paragraph 4 e.g. Says that the Committee's resolution on the proposal to negotiate an international treaty or, where appropriate, on a proposal to negotiate an international treaty. the opposing report or record of the committee's deliberations shall be forwarded to all Members at least 24 hours before the start of the second reading of the international agreement. Here I respond to the words of the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, who informed us that the Foreign Committee discussed the agreement during the second reading sometime in July, about that was the case, and recommended it to the House of ratification. So the condition is met, the clock is more than 24, so we can definitely agree to that. What puzzled me here is that there is talk in the Rules of Procedure of a possible opposing report, a report that would give us, too, who are not enthusiastic supporters of the Paris Agreement, the opportunity to learn about certain opposition opinions on the Treaty. We have tried, ODS, to propose a resolution that would ask the government to present an analysis of the effects of the Paris Agreement on the Czech economy and Czech energy. This proposal of ours has been rejected. So there is, to some extent, a slight contradiction with the Rules of Procedure, any possibility of presenting an opposition report that the House has not used, and I consider that to be a big mistake. So this explanatory note, it wasn't any opposing report, the 34,000 euros that somebody mentioned here, I think, it's not our share of the 100 billion. That's the money that's going to be spent on the normal operation resulting from the maintenance of the contract, I don't know, travelers for these different activities, etc., it's some assessors who will judge how well we've progressed on this. That'll be the 34,000 euros, not our share of the 100 billion, no way, but that's in the explanatory memorandum. So the opposing report wasn't used. I have been thinking about how to express my position on this Treaty, of course I will vote against and the ODS club will be with me, but here is another option and that is a continuance, that is § 108 para. 6 on an international treaty. There is a debate on the proposal, and after it is concluded, the House will decide whether it agrees to ratify, or whether it agrees to withdraw, which is not our case, on the contrary we are discussing accession, it may also decide that the negotiations are adjourned. And I, Mr President, would now like to propose that we decide that the negotiations are adjourned. So when we adjourn, it's a year, or five. 9. 2018. So I would ask for this proposal to be voted on. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have tried to outline here, the formal discussion itself is not entirely in order. We have neglected the possibility of a potential opposing opinion in such a major agreement, an agreement that will oblige us for a hundred years or for eighty years. I think that's a major mistake. I also ask you to take this into account in the vote to agree to the adjournment and to give the Ministry, but also to the new House, which will emerge from the elections, to take over the burden of deciding on the Paris Agreement and to decide on this treaty by the newly elected House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u21	Thank you, Mr Ambassador, just please, because the Rules of Procedure do not discuss this, specify your request whether you wish to vote on this adjournment now or after the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u22	Mr Vice-President, of course I respect the right of my colleagues to speak, because I assume that my proposal will be accepted, so then the adjournment would come immediately and they would not be able to speak here. Of course, I will be happy if both gentlemen, or others, are able to speak in the debate. So please, Mr Vice-President, put your vote to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u23	After the end of the debate, we will vote on the adjournment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u24	Yes, that's what I meant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u25	With a factual remark, President Karel Schwarzenberg. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u26	Mr President, honourable absentees and some Members present. I have my doubts that one of us really knows and has been deeply involved and studied the complex processes that lead to climate change. If this change exists, the disappearance of glaciers in the Alps, the disappearance of ice in Antarctica and the Arctic, but even my modest memory of over 70 years of climate observation in the Czech Republic. I see how nature and weather have changed in our country. [[18.20 hours]] Like I said, I don't think any of us can say that he really knows about it. But we must decide on this treaty. The work of the vast majority of scientists from all over the world, who have worked on it for more than 20 years, is actually behind this Treaty. This is against the serious votes of President Trump, former President Klaus and the ODS party. To be honest, it seems to me more reasonable to join most of the scientific community and most of the state leadership around the world, and therefore I will vote in favour of this treaty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u27	I thank Mr Schwarzenberg. With a factual remark, Mr Foldyna.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u28	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask the Minister through the President before voting in favour of the treaty. I have here her translation in the Czech language and in one paragraph it says: The Paris Agreement. The Contracting Parties agree. And now it says here: recognising that climate change is a social problem for mankind, the Parties should respect, promote and take into account their respective commitments in terms of human rights, the right to health, the rights of indigenous peoples, local communities, migrants, children, people with disabilities and people in vulnerable positions and rights to development, as well as gender equality, strengthening the position of women and intergenerational justice. I don't understand, what does it have, what is the content of this wording in the Paris Agreement?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u29	Mr Rom Kostřica, now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. After that, Mr. Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I would look at the Paris agreement not from a climate perspective, but from a practical point of view. You may not realize this, but we were dealing with it on the Foreign Committee. I'm still a doctor, plus a doctor who works in South Moravia. I'm saying this in connection with rising temperatures. There's no doubt the temperatures are rising. Whether it's given by Mother Nature or by God or by any other, that's another thing, but of course the reality is here. Please note that this problem is burdened by people who have a weaker heart or possibly suffer from other circulatory disorders. And such high - temperature problems are often much worse than cold problems. Of course, shelters and dwellings are being built in winter for people who might succumb to low temperatures, but most of us are able to defend ourselves against low temperatures of clothing or other equipment. It's much worse with a high temperature, because you know that air-conditioned rooms don't get. And remember one thing. I've seen it this year, and I've seen it for years, that these people are definitely dying. These are the people who are really affected by this disease, chronic disease of the cardiopulmonal system, who will succumb to these high temperatures. We always try in some way, in any way, to extend life expectancy, which is one of the goals not only of mine, but of all the other doctors, and it should also be the goal of all the politicians sitting here. I believe that this is definitely something that is still being underestimated. The only advantage - I don't want to be sarcastic - is that these high temperatures are currently bothering us at low humidity. That means, in the South Moravia or wherever the water is so little that the heat is dry. The dry heat is much better tolerated than the wet heat. If you've ever been in the rain or the laundry room, you'll understand because the organism can't sweat and it can't cool down like that. I believe that this Paris Agreement, whether it is enforceable or not enforceable, is something that... some kind of instrument, whatever it is, which gives us some kind of argument and an opportunity to fight this in some way. We have dealt with this quite in detail on the Foreign Committee. What he said, Mr Stanjura, is not true. I don't think that's a thing that's being underestimated. And I, not only live in South Moravia, but also live in the city, Brno, and realize that the temperature in cities is on average two to three degrees higher than elsewhere. So I don't want to poke in the Pražáks, but if you guys have a nice 27, 28 degrees here, we're getting 32, 33 degrees in that hot panel apartment on the outs of Brno. So I would strongly recommend, and I will vote in favour, that this agreement, whether it is sensual or senseless, be ratified in some way. Besides, I don't think we need to be - the Czech Republic - always one hand with shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u31	Thank you. President Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u32	Mr. Foldyna may have addressed the question directly to the Minister, but I would still like to tell him how I understand. We do not protect the environment and nature for nature itself. She doesn't care, after all. We're protecting it for future generations to pass it on to them in some condition that will, if possible, be no worse than the one we're allowed to use today. And those next generations, they're people. And these people have rights, guaranteed. So, for example, when your great-grandson decides to move to Serbia, and that way he'll be a migrant, he'll just be human, he'll have his rights, and the paragraph you quoted here thinks of him. And I think it's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u33	Mr Fiedler and his proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador. pardon me, Mr. Ambassador, with a point of fact, Mr. Zahradník. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u34	Mr Vice-President, I would like to respond now to what Mr Kalousek, Chairman of the TOP 09, said. The fact that we protect nature for ourselves, not for itself, even for our offspring, for our children, grandsons, great-grandsons, that's the holy truth, and it needs to be defended and promoted. But it is strange - I very sensitively choose words - it is strange that this view is said by the party chairman, who, with his votes, decided to approve the amendment to Act No 114 on the Protection of Nature and the Landscape, which, with his votes, helped the government coalition unable to overrule the presidential veto. Thus, a law which, as a result of the introduction of the wilderness on the upper half of the area of the Šumava National Park, will probably result in another drying of forests in Šumava. That is, a law that will contribute to giving Šumava to future generations, not as a green mountain range for centuries inhabited and managed by humans, but as a shameful wasteland, as a shameful wilderness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u35	Thank you. With a factual remark, President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u36	I'm terribly sorry to hold you up, but I feel obliged to answer that, for it seems strange to one of my colleagues. It's for those future generations again. By a law that we are not discussing right now, but which we have helped to approve the government coalition, and we are glad to have approved it, we reflect the fact that we are now using 1.5 percent of the wild nature area from the entire area of the Czech Republic. That's 1.5 percent. Well, we think that even those future generations are entitled to that 1.5 percent, and we didn't want to take it away from them. That's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u37	Good evening, honourable Members. I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. And now for Mr. Fiedler's application. And Mr. Foldyna's colleague with the facts? No, proper. So now, Mr. Fiedler with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u38	What has been said here since several previous speakers, I don't think we should just cross over. That's the enforcement of the obligations in the contract. To Mr Kalousek. Of course, I also mean the environment, preserving the environment for our grandsons. But it will go this way if we make the right decisions. And that's the condition. And we do have - mentioned by colleague Stanjura - an experience with the fact that the incorporation of biofuels into diesel, we probably already know, is not quite the right nut, as we thought, as well as solar energy and like for example. One famous carmaker who makes electric cars. I was very surprised when, in one country, which dealt with it thoroughly, they made a conversion of the generation of electric power on which this electric car rides and found that it did not meet the emission limits. Those emissions to power generation, to the given performance of the car, exceeded the set emission limits. And that's where I'm going, that may not always be the right decision. But I don't want to question that. This is about the enforcement. What I wanted to mention. I am aware that the Paris Agreement - I am stressing this, colleagues - that the Paris Agreement and the European Union, negotiations, commitments are not one and the same, that I cannot fully compare it here. It's an example. I was at the meeting of the budget committees of the national parliaments in Brussels, where there was a complaint about this - President Arthuis complained that the implementation of the European Union budget is falling from customs duties. I argued: Well, of course it is falling when we are having imports here from countries that do not comply with regulations and opinions like us, on the one hand, with regard to working conditions in terms of environmental protection. They bring us cheap products because we've reduced their customs duties. Why don't we do it? The answer was simple: Well, the Američan are gonna give it 20 percent, and we're sorry if we're gonna give it two or four. And here's the resemblance. Again, somebody's gonna do it, somebody's not gonna do it. Then where will the resulting effect be? It's not enforceable at all. It doesn't cost us just like the rapporteur said, but now I don't remember the number, our contribution in euros, 40 grand. Euros, round and round, sort of... [[He is turning to the rapporteur.]] I have a fixed amount that 43 billion. Every year, our contributions to renewable energy sources cost us about 22 billion of them. for tanning, the rest is rape and these things. That's our cost. And here we have to weigh very much what's more beneficial, what's more reasonable. I am in favour of environmental protection and, above all, I will not contradict the objectives of the Paris Agreement. But how it is written that it is not binding on anyone is what we have seen in other examples when someone has to do something and someone doesn't have to do it. And unfortunately, if the United States has taken this decision as a major economy and a major contributor to this, it puts it all in a completely different role. Consider very well how you stand up to it. I will still listen to the arguments of the others and decide by vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u39	I thank Mr Karel Fiedler. Mr. Foldyna resigned on his application and therefore I have all my applications exhausted. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting from the scene to the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. We will first proceed to the proposal before we have exhausted the final words if there is an interest in them. Mr. Secretary? Please, there's an interest in the Minister. And the newsletters after that? No?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u40	Thank you. It'll be brief. Because I consider it polite to answer questions, I'd be happy to do so to those absent who asked me a question. The main thing. I have to say no to the fact that we weren't talking about costs here. We've had a lot of fun. And I said it repeatedly, and he confirmed it to me. and the Minister of Industry that the costs result from the membership of the Czech Republic in the European Union and from the climate-energy package. No other costs from the Paris Agreement beyond what binds us within the European Union simply arise except what has been said here that we will very probably only certainly participate in some of our fee, a member, as in the Kyoto Protocol, somewhere around 38,000. And we also contribute roughly 25 miles to the Green Climate Fund. Every year and on the other hand, our companies have the opportunity to participate, of course, in the contracts that result from the Green Climate Fund. The question of sanctions. Really, there are no sanctions. It is an agreement which, in this nature, has a declaratory character. This means that there really is no kind of enforcement. And it's really declaratory in the sense that the world says, "let's make a deal," but the idea that those states are going to judge each other about who's doing it and who's not doing it is really pointless at this point. And it is the result of a compromise agreement of 196 states. So we need to realize how hard this agreement has come into being and that it really is a compromise. And the compromise is actually what my colleague Foldyna said here, and actually the wording that is there, which, in the end, was put into it by the states, taking into account the interest of migrants and indigenous people, which are, of course, things that are not related to the Czech Republic in this case, but relate to other states. So that wouldn't make me nervous. Yes, there are climate scientists, Mr. Pretel, who I really appreciate. He's a co-worker of my resorcist organization. But other than that, there are thousands of climate scientists who have a different opinion. So, ladies and gentlemen, this is a complete conclusion. I fully respect that there are other world arsenals for what causes climate change and whether it is caused at all. But a majority view of about 90 maybe 95 percent of the academies of science around the world say that climate change is really taking place and that it is a person's significant contribution. Please, let us join these states. And at the very end of the note. If it turns out that the Paris Agreement did not bring that purpose, which is not excluded, it can prove to be as it can be for a number of other contracts, the Czech Republic will certainly not lose out on this. But it's an attempt, maybe one last attempt, to make a fundamental difference. Thank you. I believe the experiment will work. Thank you for agreeing to ratify this agreement.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u41	I thank the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco for his final words. I'm asking Mr. Zemk if he's interested. It's not like that. A colleague of Junek? It's not like that. Now, before the proposals in the resolution of the Foreign Committee and the Committee on the Environment, we have a legitimate proposal from Mr Zahradník pursuant to § 108 para. 6, the proposal to adjourn the ratification of this Treaty, i.e. the Paris Agreement. We will decide that in the vote number 23, which I immediately initiate, and I ask who is in favour of the adjournment. [[Notes from the diaper.]] Oh, thank you. I declare vote 23 misguided. I failed to comply with the request from the House's meeting, i.e. I'd like you to be checked out. So I'm signing you off, and I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. [[18.40 hours]] About the proposal pursuant to § 108 para. 6 to adjourn ratification, we will decide in the vote number 24, which I started because the number of entries has settled. Please, who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 24, from 123 for 24, against 69. The motion was denied. We will therefore vote on the resolution of the Foreign Committee and the Committee on the Environment; both resolutions are identical, i.e. by agreeing to ratify the Paris Agreement. We're going to decide the number 25 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 25, from present 127 for 96, against 12. The motion was accepted. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved and the Government's proposal to ratify the Paris Agreement may go to the signature of the President of the Republic. Under the agreement of the Presidents of the Clubs, I am informed that this is today's final item on the agenda. Thank you for your active participation in today's meeting. I look forward to seeing you tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. when we will begin item number 45 of our approved agenda and then the laws of block three readings. Before the end of the Madam President's petition committee. You mít the slovo, Madam President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u42	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. I remind the members of the petition committee today, probably the last meeting of the committee to begin at 19 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-008-012.u43	Thank you. I repeat, we are beginning with paragraph 45, and I wish you a good evening. Goodbye.
