ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u1	231. Government bill amending Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended, and other related laws /house print 927/ - third reading [[9.10 hours]] At the rapporteur's table, the Minister for Regional Development and the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, are already sitting. The amendments have been delivered to you in press 927/5, on 1 March 2017, and the resolution of the Guarantee Committee has been delivered as press 927/6. I will ask the Minister if he wishes to speak before the debate is opened. That's right. Then you have the floor, Madam Secretary. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I stand here before the third reading of the amendment to the construction law, the key law that should speed up the proceedings, reduce bureaucracy in the area of obtaining all permits for building housing houses or motorways or anything else. I would like to begin by thanking all of you who have participated in the amendments to all the committees. I would like to thank the three committees, namely the Committee on Public Administration, regional development, which is also the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Economics and the Committee on the Environment. Of course, there have been many amendments to this law. I think that, together with Members and the Ministry of Regional Development, as a petitioner, we have reached consensus on many, and possibly on a proposal for another amendment. I would just mention here some amendments that the Ministry of Regional Development does not agree with, and I would also like to give you reasons. Of course, there will probably be room for debate afterwards, but there are some amendments that can affect the implementation of the entire construction law at all and may not have positive implications for the objective and purpose of this amendment. This means simplification, shortening and also speeding up construction. I must say that the amendments really made it clear that the effort to help this law was to suit the entire construction. I would like to draw attention to two things. Construction law, I told it at second reading, has two parts, namely spatial planning and construction order. These two things cannot be separated and we cannot focus solely on amendments, for example. to adjust part of the construction order according to the requirements of stakeholder in the field of transport, etc. I would also like to mention that we consider certain amendments to be completely inappropriate, which may also jeopardise the implementation of the amendment to the construction law, and I would like to mention a few of them. At first and second reading, we discussed the comments from two key cities in the Czech Republic, which is an extension of the term of validity of the municipal planning documentation. Today, two amendments will be voted on, namely an extension from 2020 to 2022 and 2024. The Ministry of Regional Development does not support any shift. I explained it here at second reading. We explained it to the committees. For us, this is a non-conceptional solution so that two cities really change this key law. And I also suggested that in two years' time, if we see that Prague is not able to make it or that Brno is not able to do it, then a quick amendment was made, of course, by the new Chamber of Deputies. But please, at this point I must say that the processing of the update of the zoning plan of the capital city of Prague and Brno really can be done for us, and we are afraid that if you extend it as the Chamber of Deputies, it may happen that the cities that are already planning to process the territorial plans by 2020 will give up a little bit and extend it, and eventually it will have immediate consequences, for example. to draw subsidies. Another thing the Ministry of Regional Development disagrees with. We consider it completely inappropriate amendments concerning the issue of agricultural buildings. This is the following procedure No. 15, 16, 17. Here we really have a fundamental disagreement, and here I would explain it. First - there are three amendments. The first of these makes it impossible to exclude the territorial planning documentation for the placing of agricultural buildings in the free landscape, even if such exclusion would be in the public interest. Now let me give you an example of what that would mean. This would mean that farm buildings could be placed virtually anywhere in the free landscape. Even next to the highway or on the highway, if the owner e.g. He owned the piece under the highway, it wouldn't have been expropriated yet, which is related to the preliminary holding. So at this point, the Ministry of Regional Development does not agree with this, because even for municipalities, it would mean introducing anyone who has an agricultural construction into their territorial plans, and when placing these buildings, they wouldn't even be able to drive, they wouldn't get a building permit. Basically, without any permission, it would just be a location, which we can't really agree with. To illustrate, I would like to give another concrete example, for example, if this amendment were to be adopted, agricultural buildings could be located anywhere. This means that there could be a situation that such a construction will be located e.g. in a defined railway or road corridor or housing complex, etc. We really cannot agree with this on our part. Another proposal requires that each zoning plan must define areas for agricultural buildings and gardening activities. Such a proposal is completely unsystemic, but in many cases even impossible and from the point of view of the lawyers of the Ministry of Regional Development, from my point of view we think it can be unconstitutional. Once again, I would like to set a specific example. This is mainly the case with the mayors of the councils, because those consequences will mainly be in the process of the zoning plan. That's what it means to the community. If there was no private intention in the territory to define areas for agricultural buildings or gardening activities and the municipality did not have its own suitable areas, it could not meet the requirement of the construction law and could therefore not even acquire and issue its territorial plan, which could really cause problems for the municipalities. In its consequences, the amendment thus interferes with the Constitution of guaranteed protection of property rights, the property rights of citizens, but also with the right of municipalities to self-government. I would also like to give an example of the requirement for compulsory setting of areas for gardening activities. If we imagine, for example. very small villages, we have 5,000 of those 6 250, where they are spread in the agricultural landscape, all houses have relatively large economic backgrounds including gardens with an area of up to several thousand square meters. For such municipalities, this requirement would mean the compulsory definition of areas for gardening activities, which is completely nonsensical. I note here that there are most such municipalities in the Czech Republic. There are 5,000 of them involved. And here, with this amendment, we could block basically the entire territorial plans of all municipalities. The next amendment aims to include agricultural buildings up to 60 m2 of built-up area and up to 5 m of height into so-called. free mode, which means they would only be placed. No warrant, no housewarming. The Ministry of Regional Development does not agree with this. We are already allowing for some simplification and acceleration of agricultural buildings, but we do not agree with the requirement that all agricultural buildings be of an agricultural nature only for the location, without housewarming and without a building permit. As regards the other two key amendments to the construction law, not the amendment laws that I will be getting to in a moment. This is an extension of the term "construction work'. And here I am really going to put two exclamation points behind the Ministry of Regional Development for this amendment. Here we have been trying to keep the main goal of the amendment, which is the acceleration of construction. Here I must stress that this acceleration will in no way help and is at the expense of protecting the public interests and protecting the rights of neighbours. We therefore continue to express our fundamental opposition to the amendment. This is the number two vote, where the concept of construction adjustment changes. If this concept of construction changes, the assessment of construction changes will also change significantly, e.g. construction of a high-level apartment building to the highest level of the highest part. This would be considered as a construction modification and, as such, would require only a building permit without prior assessment of the location, without assessment of distance distance, overshadowing, disruption of the landscape and also without the public. [[9.20 hours]] Let me just give you an example here. We have a house to which we have a garden, to which we have a garage, and here, if you would approve this amendment, it would mean that in that garden up to the height of the roof of the house, for example, a superstructure that will be without permission, without location, without assessment, etc. For example, the same can grow above the pool if this amendment is accepted. I would really like you to consider this here, and I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a negative opinion on this. Another key amendment that is there concerns the connection of buildings to infrastructure. This is a very simple change, but the effects are really inconspicuous. In this amendment, there is a requirement for the use of infrastructure to which the construction will be connected, which, in its consequences, can mean the possibility of establishing the conditions of individual owners and managers of a specific infrastructure which, however, would not always have to be linked to the connection to this infrastructure as such, and such a requirement beyond that could, for example, be the construction of noise barriers or the reconstruction of damaged communications. Another thing that is very important, and here the draft law on electronic communications was approved yesterday, of course the amendment to the construction law already anticipated this law, so we must also adapt the vote in the building law to what you adopted yesterday. According to the construction law, all public technical infrastructure is subject to approval, it is permitted to use it as the protection of the public interest in these buildings must be ensured. There's a requirement that the housewarming doesn't be subject to construction, but...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, I beg you to remain calm!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u4	There remains a requirement in the amendment that the approval should not be subject to the construction of electronic communications, which is completely inconsistent, because electronic communication must also be subject to the approval. The constructions of a public technical infrastructure shall only be placed and no longer permitted in respect of their assessment. That means no building permit or territorial approval is required there. Their approval will verify whether the construction was carried out at all, how it was realized and how the technical infrastructure runs precisely. If this requirement were enforced, it could conflict with the draft law on measures to reduce the cost of implementing high-speed electronic communications networks, where the new agenda is being introduced for a single information point and infrastructure. As far as the amendment laws are concerned, there are only three things I would like to draw attention to. This is a matter of integrating the authorisation of water works into joint management. In order to comply with one of its defined purposes, namely the acceleration of the authorisation process, it is necessary for the law to allow for a joint decision, that is, a joint decision is the EIA, the land and building permit, in one joint management and construction of water works. The conflict point is integration into the joint management of water works, which requires the issue of a permit for water management issued by the water authorities. Here I just want to mention that there are two parliamentary proposals with which the Ministry of Regional Development will then agree, because they include waterworks in joint management. Here I would just like to say to the microphone that, even by these amendments, Members do not assume any competence from the water authorities elsewhere. Their competence remains. They shall issue a binding opinion in the first authorisation. If there is a need for change, they will then make a decision, and the water authorities will do so, so at this point only an explanation for the Ministry of Regional Development, because I believe that this point is likely to be discussed here. Subsequently, we have two major disagreements as a petitioner, and this concerns Act 416 on speeding up the construction of road motorway, energy and water infrastructure. This is a transfer of competences. It will be voting number sixty-two, where there is a requirement for the transfer of competences to the regional authorities for the construction of transport infrastructure at first instance and for the management of expropriation proceedings which are acquired rights to land or to the construction that are just needed to carry out the construction of transport infrastructure. Let me just explain here. Everything that the first, second and third level building authorities are doing is moving to the edge. This is really very unsystemic and it is justified only by an effort to accelerate the management and greater competence of regional authorities. We reject this request. We find it unwarranted and completely inconclusive, and there are no other amendment laws to it, so I do not agree with this transfer to the regional authorities. And the last thing I'd like to inform you about is preliminaries. I am aware of the will of the Chamber of Deputies to deal with this in a positive sense, but I would like to state our opinion on what it actually means to introduce an institute of preliminary holding. First of all, it is not laid down anywhere, nor in the Civil Code, and it will only introduce a building law. This is the case that the expropriator is thus allowed to state in the possession of the expropriated right before the termination of the expropriation procedure. It will speed up the construction, but here we are really getting into possible legal problems, where there is a risk of damage compensation, if you imagine a road that is a road that belongs to the state, or twos and threes that belong to the regions, there will be no land under them, and, of course, the owner, whether it's a private person, company or whoever, will be sued precisely for the fact that they didn't want to expropriate the land or wouldn't accept the purchase. Here I really must inform as a promoter that we are warning against this amendment, which can really introduce various illegal things. Finally, I would like to say that this amendment, along with these amendments, which we will be voting on, fulfils its purpose. The amendment to the Construction Act carries with it over 40 amendment laws. Those laws aren't easy. Construction law is such an umbrella, it is really a roof over other laws that we are building in the Czech Republic. Transport, energy, water is built according to 416. Other things concerning agricultural buildings are built partly according to the construction work, partly according to the laws of the Ministry of Agriculture. Of course, fragmentation of the building offices is a key issue, but the amendment to the building law does not address it, because we are trying to introduce joint proceedings by this amendment and we will then also evaluate its impact on the construction authorities. I would like to thank you once again to all of you who listened to me and helped us with the amendments, because at least half of them were considered good, we agreed them and I hope that both the House and we, as an executive, have prepared a law that will really speed up construction in the Czech Republic. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u5	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening the debate. I have three applications for it so far. I will ask the rapporteur if he wants to exercise priority rights. Yes, it is. So first, the rapporteur and then colleagues Böhnisch and Fichtner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, let me first introduce you to the proposal for legislative technical adaptations under Section 95 para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. These are legislative technical modifications, which have been sent to you yesterday and have been consulted both with the petitioner and with legislation. Let me load them now. In points 1 to 5, this is an amendment to Part 39, which amends the Act on Acceleration of Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure, which is also amended by House Press No 936, which is intended to take effect before the amendment to the Construction Act. On this basis, the following amendments are proposed in legislative technical terms, which only technically align the two amendments under discussion. 1. At the end of the title of Part 39, the words "and electronic communications infrastructure' shall be added. 2. In Part 39, in the introductory sentence of Article 47, the words "and Act No. 49/2016 Sb." are replaced by "Law No 49/2016 Sb. and Act No. .../2017 Sb." . [[9.30 hours]] 3. In Part 39, point 1 of Article 47, the words "and electronic communications infrastructure' shall be inserted after the word "infrastructure'. 4. Section 39 (6) reads: "In the first sentence of Section 3a, the words "proposal of a contract' shall be replaced by the word "contract' and the words "or energy infrastructure' shall be inserted after the word "communication'. 5. Point 8 of Article 47 of Part 39 reads: "8. In the first sentence of Section 3c, the words "or energy infrastructure' shall be inserted after the word "communication'. The following four minor legislative technical adaptations point 6 to 9 are of the nature of the correction of printing errors. The amendment under point 10 responds to the amendment of the Act on the State Land Office adopted in the course of press discussions 927. So 6. In the first part of Article 1, point 153, Section 94n, paragraph 4, the words "related' are replaced by the words "related'. 7. In point 178 of the first paragraph of Article 1, the word "managing' is replaced by the word "managing'. 8. In Section 7 of Article 9 of Section 17 (o), the word "for' is replaced by the word "of'. 9. In Part 41 (2) of Article 50, the word "general' is replaced by the word "general'. 10. In Part 42 of Article 51, the words "as amended by Law No 51' shall be inserted after the word "laws'. 158/2016 Sb.," The words "paragraph 5' are replaced by the words "paragraph 3' and the words "paragraph 5' are replaced by the words "paragraph 3'. The last proposed legislative technical regulation concerns the H7 proposal, which responds to the repeal of point (f) in Section 94k of Amendments A27 or C23, is identical, and H5 and needs to be extended to other provisions. 11. In Amendment H7, the text "and in Section 94w paragraph 4' is inserted after the text "§ 94n paragraph 3.'. The opinions of both the legislation and the petitioner are identical, so thank you for your attention, we have read legislative technical amendments. As far as technical matters are concerned, I'm only going to introduce you briefly. We will be voting on less than 220 amendments. These amendments concern ten standards, as has been said here, we have a construction law and 43 standards to do so. We have added one more in the course of the amendments, and the amendments concern ten of them. Of the 220, as I said, the construction law itself concerns less than 150 and 70 concerns the remaining ones. The guarantee committee itself has proposed 60 amendments and, similarly, the economic committee, I think 54, which means - no, but these two committees have agreed in these amendments, so they are identical in 99 percent. The proposed procedure is in 72 steps. I'm just making an announcement here, just as you got your e-mails saying it's necessary to make some adjustments. We have them in five steps, the adjustments, so I'll read them in a detailed debate. And I also advise that, after consulting, I will propose that in a vote where we will vote on the amendments of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development under the A1 until I think that - but that is not necessary now. We will just divide the A's, the vote is thirty-four, thirty-five, thirty-six, thirty-nine, on individual points, because Members may have a different opinion on individual amendments, so that they can be allowed to vote on a single basis. The same will be the case with the number fifteen vote, divided into two votes, 15.1 and 15.2. So I'm calling it in. As far as the amendments are concerned, I will only mention two, which was mentioned here in the first case by the Minister. These are territorial plans and they are being postponed. We've had a very long debate about this, and as far as the KDU club is concerned, we've finally turned to the position that we're in favour of pushing this deadline for a year, but 2022, which is the maximum for us, because, as we've already said here, it's not against - and I as the former mayor - the other mayors are too kosher when I think the third time we've pushed this deadline. This has been the case since 2007, when these new territorial plans were supposed to be, I think for the first time until 2012, then 2015 and finally we have the 2020 deadline. As far as the Water Law is concerned, therefore, KDU is behind the proposal that was agreed by the government and where the ministers agreed at the Government's September meeting when they launched this law in the House. It concerns the issue of building authorisation, water management. So here we are behind this proposal by the Ministry of Agriculture, whose proposal has actually been enforced and the amendments have been amended, so we will not support these amendments. I think they're under A49 to A51. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. Excuse me, Mr Klán, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. I have listened with the attention of the rapporteur. I'm completely appalled. I'm saying, frankly, I'm terrified, because if we completely override the procedure, we can still be here tomorrow. I'm logical about the A's. We agreed on something on the public administration guarantee committee, we prepared the procedure there, and here we are going to dig it literally and into the letter. There is to be said that if there are A's, then there are C's, and then all of this can be ruled out. Just realize that when we have a guarantee committee here, Mr rapporteur through Mr President, you have to say the position of the guarantee committee here. If you want to change the procedure, get off in the general debate on your own. But you must respect the resolution of the guarantee committee. So this is where you read the things we designed them. If this is gonna be such a mess, I'm gonna tell you straight, I'm not gonna support the building bill. I really don't like this a little bit. And while I'm here, I'm gonna say that I'm only gonna support the building bill if the preliminaries pass. Let me get this straight. If he doesn't pass, I'll abstain. Not because I don't want this new building bill, but because it's a mess. And if we're gonna make this even more chaos, then maybe we should just give it a heads-up, let the point be interrupted, 'cause this procedure is gonna be really complicated if we throw it all over like this. I really, really don't like this, what the rapporteur here has done at this point through the President. [[Mr. Faltynek from the diaper says, I don't like it either. The noise in the hall.]] Let's not yell at each other...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u9	I ask the Member to complete the factual point. [[Member of the Klán: That would really be everything from me.]] Thank you. I have a number of other factual remarks and applications here. I would just like to ask that, in the general debate, we address general statements on laws or amendments. The procedure will be dealt with later and there is room for it. But, of course, I can't stop anyone from performing. So factual points: Mr Kučera, Mr Bendl, Mr Okleštěk - also a factual point? Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u10	Thank you for the floor. I also have to react briefly to the speech by the rapporteur, who has brought about proper chaos. And I would like to point out that not only did he bring into this chaos, he presented the positions of the KDU-ČSL club in his speech, so we do not really know what to vote for and what not, what is really the position of the guarantee committee, what is the position of the KDU-ČSL club and what is the personal position of the rapporteur. Indeed, if this is how it is to be done, then we will have to discuss how we should vote in the first place and how we should proceed to this law in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u11	Yes. Mr. Bendl. However, the positions of the Guarantee Committee are presented before the vote. Mr. Bendl, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. You are right, I want to stand up for the rapporteur a little, because he is under pressure from individuals who go to him, that they want to vote specifically on it or about another, and he does not actually know which way to go. It will therefore have to consult the Chamber of Deputies. And we in the procedure decide what it's gonna be like or won't look like what we want. I, too, would suggest that we follow the committee's recommendation, because otherwise we will be lost in it. But I must defend the rapporteur that almost two thirds of the Members will each walk with one another. And look at the 170, or how much it's combined... 220 changelings, so it's not a simple matter at all. I'm warning more of a coalition MP. If you are interested in passing the law in some form, and if you do not want to drown completely in it, then simply follow the recommendations of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u13	Mr. Mr. Okleštěk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say that we support the procedure proposed by the Public Administration Committee. And what the rapporteur has proposed here, we will vote, and we will vote, whether we will vote for the procedure proposed by the committee or not. So there's a clear procedure for us from the Public Administration Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u15	Yes, that's exactly how it's gonna be. The rapporteur with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u16	Thank you. First of all, I made a mistake loading. Then I'll ask you to be patient. In point 10, "as amended by Law No. 185/2016 Sb.," It was misread " No. 158/2016 Coll."so I'm asking you to fix it. As far as the President is concerned, he is a colleague of Klánek. I'm the one who got out here and announced what I'm suggesting. And there will be a vote on that. So I respect the demands of my colleagues that they see this, and then we're going to talk about it specifically, that when we vote on points A under 34, 35, 36, some of them are for some A's and they have a positive opinion, for some they have a negative opinion or they want to abstain. So I'm merely in favour of my fellow Members here, and we'll decide that later on in the procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u17	And if there are no further factual remarks or requests for withdrawal with priority rights, please Mr Böhnisch and Mr Fichtner will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u18	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for the floor. The Minister rightly mentioned that the draft law was also dealt with by the Committee on the Environment, which dealt with the original text, not the amendments, because it was not a guarantee committee. And although I myself am opposed to a long speech at third reading, which we have very much introduced here in the last period, I will allow myself, not for the committee, but for myself, a few remarks on a number of amendments that I cannot agree with. The first amendment is proposal R7, which reduces the protection of specially protected species of plants and animals. It is therefore a change affecting Act No. 114/1992 Coll. on the conservation of nature and landscape. I also disagree with the proposal A39, which is identical to the proposal C34. These proposals significantly strengthen the power of authorized inspectors at the expense of the public. But now it's more important. These are designs A20 which are identical to C17, A36, A27 which is identical to H5 and C23, F1, which is identical to H4, F2, which is identical to H11. These proposals seek to exclude the public from the territorial and construction proceedings in cases where the EIA is not required at the same time. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, even the possible negative effects of such, say, smaller structures are worth attention. It's about the quality of people's lives around such structures. Minimization or elimination of such negative effects must be addressed and this is possible in the territorial or construction proceedings. With the proper functioning of the public administration, this does not mean any substantial delay in the proceedings, but it is about improving its quality. The solution, ladies and gentlemen, is born in the debate -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u19	Ambassador, I'm sorry. I ask my colleagues to keep their voices down or move their discussion outside the O.R. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, the solution is born in the debate. Disabling someone to point out the error would lead to the preservation of the Czech nesvar, i.e. presenting defective or unfinished intentions to many poorly functioning authorities. The delays caused by a poorly developed project and the failure of public administration are all too often unfairly attributed to a functioning civil society, and the amendments mentioned are a reflection of such thinking. [[9.50 hours]] The last amendment I wish to comment on is Amendment F3. It does not only address the issue of building law, but it also excludes the public from a number of other proceedings which affect the environment directly, such as the Law on Forests or the Law on Geological Works. This is another attack on Section 70 of the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. There's been a lot of them in the past. For example, which one of you would like to explore and comment on the sources of shale gases that are already mining in itself just a short distance from your home? I'm guessing, for example, in our town of Trutnov, or in the neighboring Náchod region, no one would want it. If, in addition to the fact that this proposal and the previous ones are against the government's programming statement, law No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, which you voted here yesterday by 117 votes, with a strong majority, supported in connection with the rules on national parks. If my amendments had been approved, it would have been such a fundamental problem for me to support the law as a whole that I could not vote for it afterwards, and I would have called on my colleagues to do the same thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u21	Thank you. Before I give the floor to Mr Fichtner, Mr Adamec, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u22	Thank you. Mr President, Mr President, fellow Members, when I listened to my colleague Böhnisch, that is exactly what this is about. I think there are a number of tools to prevent, for example, the exploration of shale gas extraction. But I have sometimes asked here at first reading such a question as to whether this amendment to the Construction Act will cause the actual realization of the construction to be shorter than the entire construction process. That's what I got, I didn't get. I think it should be the aim of this effort to paper less and less so that the bureaucracy around the buildings is as low as possible. And my colleague Böhnisch here is saying something completely different. And I have to say - I hear it here all the time and I heard it years ago, when there was an amendment to the law of construction, when I was in the Senate, how it would make it easier, faster, and I wonder - I know colleagues don't care, but I wonder, this proposal of the amendment of the law of construction, if anyone quantified how it will actually work out in practice, how it will be realized. I understand that there are a lot of amendments that are still quite confusing, but I would really like to know... I know colleague Sklenák doesn't care, but maybe the secretary could. [[Member Sklenák is speaking to Minister Noble at the rapporteur's table.]] If anyone has quantified how much time this bill of construction will save the builders, if anybody has calculated it or if there's any idea... Or we'll say, "Let's lighten up." Let's make it simple. [[Pretty much always bangs his hands into the speaker's desk.]] ... And reality will be completely different! Unfortunately, I have to say from my experience that everyone said so without distinction party shirts! Let's make it simple. Let's go faster. We will. [[Once again, an angry bang into the speaker's desk.]] And then it turns out the way it always does. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u23	Madam Secretary, with a point of order. Or with priority rights, whatever you want.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Through you, I would like to address the honourable Member. Well, I don't wake up like that. [[He's suggesting a blow to the speaker's desk.]] Because processing the novel... On the contrary, I should be walking slowly about a wand and bent, putting it together at all... But personally after all this, I believe it will bring about the simplification. We quantified it. We have different graphs for this, where we counted for large transport constructions, even because we have the Public Procurement Act, how it simplifies all of this. This shortening, if it takes ten years at this time to obtain a permit for the construction, we have quantified this reduction by at least 50 per cent, i.e. for five years. Otherwise, we presented everything at seminars. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development has our presentation, where all the schemes are, so we have really dealt with this. And we put something in the explanatory memorandum, and of course it's part of the RIA evaluation, which is a mandatory part of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u25	One more point of fact. Mr. Adamec again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u26	Mr President, fellow Members, I am pleased that the Minister has responded. I just want to tell you one thing - I'm gonna remember it, and I'm always gonna... I'm gonna... [[Short hesitation]] Sorry, as President Faltýnek here says. [[with a smile]] So thank you very much and remember it as I do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u27	Yes. Please address the Members by my Presidency, even if you are referring to each other. Through, of course. Mr Fichtner, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u28	Good morning, thank you for the floor. Speaking of processing, I would return to the amendment, which is now registered under number D4. The rapporteur here apparently did not listen very much, although I drew his attention to it at second reading, so at least now I am asking for attention. In that list of amendments that we have received, Amendment D4 states that if it meets the proposal pursuant to paragraph 1 (a) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v)))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v))))) (v) (v) (v) (v)))))))))) (v))))) (v)))) (v))) (v) (v)) (v) (v)) (v) And I was reading 12 as part of my second reading. However, there are six in that list. I don't know how it came up. So please pay 12. Well, we'll explain later. I do not know whether this is a legislative technical correction or a proposal, please let the rapporteur assess this in some way, but to vote on the twelve months, because that is what the proposal was meant to be. At the same time, I would like to thank all of you, if necessary, for supporting this proposal, as it will allow for a significant reduction in the time of the change in the zoning plan.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u29	Thank you. Mr Bendl, please, and Mr Foldyna will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, we spent quite a lot of time with this material and focused on it in detail not only on the committee but also at the seminar where we discussed the individual details. I must say for myself and perhaps for the citizens of the Democrats that we have treated this law responsibly, because we are interested in building it. And to build quickly, well, if the essential things that need to be discussed in the framework of the construction process are not to pass away, both with the public and with the real estate authorities or owners concerned, but on the other hand, to remove unnecessary time barriers, not only in the private sphere, but also in the public sphere at the level of cities, municipalities, regions, etc. the state, because the situation in the construction sector is from the point of view of the state budget, if you look at it just a little objectively, really rusty. He's not stopping. Almost nowhere. We are aware that construction and construction do not only affect the construction law, but also other laws that have already been passed by the Chamber of Deputies. The Environmental Impact Act, which we've been fighting for for quite a long time. As opposition, we are very skeptical of how it is written. We think that construction as a whole lost a lot there. The Public Procurement Act, which also greatly affects the construction and construction times, because it is not only a building permit, but also a competition for the construction. And at a time when the state and individual funds in particular say that the aid will only be awarded to the cheapest one, regardless of the fact that it must always be the best, there is an extension of decisions on who will be or will not do the construction, which can be demonstrated in practice by a number of specific tender procedures. However, we consider the construction law important. We approached it as constructively as possible and tried to help in principle both in the areas of over-doubling the demand of investor information from individual public authorities and organisations, we tried to eliminate to a maximum extent such special-purpose creation as well. pseudo-civic associations whose only goal is to blackmail an investor, not to seek optimal solutions for the construction as a whole. [[10.00 hours]] I believe that, in the end, most of the House of Deputies will support this in the amendments. If that does not happen, and you do not know the practice of building lines in particular, then we will certainly not see any such promise, which was said by the Minister here, or vice versa. In the construction law, there is an institute of interruption of the construction proceedings. It is a question of the courage of the building office whether it will not interrupt or will be and what will happen around the individual construction. And we know for ourselves that the bigger the construction, the more purposeful the filings and the questioning and the complications of the builder himself. We support as much as possible the fact that, in particular, property owners in the territory concerned, in particular public administration, of course representatives of cities, municipalities and so on, the council, I will say non-purpose civic associations, have the chance to ask, resolve, explain and so on, to find a compromise, but not to unwrap the process indefinitely, so that the investor eventually finds out after ten years that the construction will not cost as much as he planned, but by 30, 50 percent more. What we stumbled upon during the negotiation of the construction law, I will say in general, is also a situation that concerns the conservation law. That is what I would like to draw attention to all those who are trying to move the ice in this area, as the Monument Act is under discussion by the Chamber of Deputies and has a significant influence on whether or not it will be built and how it will be built and whether the state that dictates in this area to property owners, owners of monuments, what they should or should not do, but does not contribute to it, that is, it complicates life in this regard, because the state has some interest, I think it should contribute and we should focus on this area in the conservation law and perhaps not just this one. In my view, the construction law as a whole, whether it passes in any form as regards amendments, will strengthen or highlight the importance of territorial planning, because we all want and want to speed up the construction itself. This will make it all the more important to discuss it within the framework of the zoning plan. We, too, have supported the displacement of the territorial plans for 2022 in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. There were arguments that there were only three of them, Prague, I suspect Brno and Mladá Boleslav, or something like that. And we say, since it's only three, it doesn't really matter if it's 2017, 2020, 2021 or 2022. There's only three left. Whoever ever made the zoning plan, and I did it, for two years I was paid at the Municipal Authority in Kladno, where I was the head of the department of the zoning plan, I did the physical zoning plan, including the territorial economic principles of the development of Kladno, I know what it is. Although I have done this, I can't imagine exactly what it is, for example, to do a zoning plan in Prague, where there are individual city parts, a magistrate, where relationships are just so intertwined that it's a complicated thing. I don't think anything terrible is gonna happen if we move this to 2020. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] In addition to some of the amendments. We will support maximum simplification. We will support the proposal of Mr Kudela, who concerns agricultural buildings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u31	Colleagues and colleagues, please remain calm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u32	Prime Minister, it's so good to see you, but behind me. [[He's smiling.]] Thank you. I won't really be too long. I'm just gonna repeat it for everyone else so they can hear it. We will support the simplification of agricultural buildings, because we think it has a direct link to the promotion of livestock production, because whoever wants to make a feeder or store for hay, straw and so on, so that means that he has clear livestock farming activities and that is why we will support simplification in this area of the construction law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u33	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. So far, Mr. Foldyna is the last registered member.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u34	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I would like to say that what I listened to in my colleague Mr Bendl's speech, I completely agree with a number of things. I would like to ask you here to support my amendment, which immediately affects what Mr Bendl here has said. In my amendment, I want to limit the entry and influence of the so-called various environmental associations and initiatives. I believe and believe that currently authorisation processes in the Czech Republic are to some extent a handicap for the arrival of new investors. The unpredictability of what's going to happen here in this country in the licensing process, I mean, building proceedings, it's so complicated that these people are leaving us. But it is also a problem for domestic investors. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall!]] I don't want to deprive anyone of the right to enter decision-making processes. I think that the amendment to Act 100 here, on the assessment of the environmental impact of the construction, gives sufficient space for all associations and institutions to enter into this so that they can apply the citizens' opinion. However, building permits and building standards are a technical matter. This space should be given only to those really concerned, and I would therefore ask you to support the amendment that I am giving here, because it will make it much easier for investors both domestic and, in particular, foreign, especially those who make high-tech technology, which is often demoted in processes by different views of pseudo-protective nature. So I beg you to support me across the political spectrum of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u35	Thank you. Mr Zemek's proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I didn't even want to do this, but after what I've heard here, I just have to. [[From the left side is echoing shh, there is still a lot of noise in the hall.]] I would like to give you my experience here from the public administration where I worked for ten years. I have some experience with the administration, with the application of the construction law, with various other laws, with public participation in administrative proceedings and so on. I have registered here a speech by a colleague who has been plotting here for an amendment to limit the participation of so-called green activists. However, it needs to be said and also B. It doesn't exclude just the so-called green activists. It rules out the entire general public. That means we're going back 30, 40 years. An investor comes in, wants to build something, and no one's just gonna talk to him about it. And there are the experts at the construction office who will approve. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, the reality is somewhere else. It would work if we had super-quality and super-percent public administration, but it's not. When we take reality at construction offices, not many places, it is rather a very rare exception, there is a college student with a construction education at the construction office. I'm bohužel so. If we do that by limiting public influence, which, by the way, is against a government statement, I think it's a fatal mistake and it's a step backwards. I am in favour of speeding up the construction process to make it easier. I think we can all agree on that. But this is not the right way. I hope that these amendments, which limit public participation, in a fatal way - there is no selection of good, bad and good, it limits the whole of the public. So, my fellow Members, let's think about it. I recommend not to vote, because that is a really important thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u37	Mr Klán, it is a proper application. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, this is an amendment under F3 if I am not mistaken. We discussed this on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which also falls within the EIA and on these other things, the conservation of nature and landscape. We've made a recommendation. It's due to the atmosphere between people. But even here, because we know that many of these environmental movements, let's face it, sometimes purposefully block the buildings, that's why there's this kind of atmosphere. Not only here, but also in the company, because when many buildings stop for a few years just because somebody kind of broke in there, he wandered somewhere, like now that the D1 stopped, it kind of fascinated me, like for a year that it would stretch through, but it's due to the atmosphere. I know that everyone doesn't do that, that it's not the public that's affected, but some people do it with purpose. I was quite fascinated by the fact that Mr. Matěj Stropnický head of the Green Party came there, and when he said his comments, I told him that if the buildings had somehow stopped or delayed for a few years, I would have let the lost investments be paid for by those who delayed it with purpose, and that included letting him pay for it. So he was a little freaked out, but that was straight up. 'Cause I say, I know a person, too, when they build city circles. And it's costing a lot of years, growing traffic that goes through the city centers. We're dealing with the bypasses, but somebody's gonna stop it. That's what really happened to us. I'm saying, I told you straight, not everyone does, but some people do it really purposefully, and I really hate it, too. If they were doing this constructively, as we discussed there, maybe the territorial affiliation, that they can only express themselves in that place, then here again we have the European Union, that it may not be possible. We've made a lot of progress to make these buildings a little bit faster. Of course, that's what the building bill will do. I am in a bit of a bind if I support Mr Foldyna's amendment, because I can already see the headlines, that we have prevented public entry and that we are being naughty by someone. I can see the headlines that we've just been against ecology, and they've written about me a lot of times, but let's talk about it a little constructively. I really understand the effort to limit it a little bit, because the mood is such that it really often blocks the various constructions that need to be done. So I'm going to think about this amendment under F3, but I'm probably going to support it personally for the very reasons that these buildings will speed up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u39	Mr Klánek's speech raised a number of factual points, namely five so far. Mrs Nováková, then Mr Zemek, Mr Kučera, Mrs Böhnisch and Mr Velebný. First, Madame. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u40	Thank you for the floor. I would follow up on the MP here who spoke before me and said how we read the thumb headlines, that we prevent the public from watching politicians or companies and so on. I believe that if the headlines are fair, and I support the previous position, because it is really not possible for civil society actors to exclude from the decision on what the municipalities will look like, what large areas will look like. That's why I think it's right, and I don't think politicians are the only ones to decide. It's kind of paradoxical when politicians here today basically oppose civil society subjects. And civil society subjects, for them, are not synonymous with eco-terrorists or pressure groups. We can't put that in one piece. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u41	Mr Zemek, after him Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u42	Thank you for the floor. Really just two short notes. A fellow speaker mentioned here that we are restricting the public's participation. Well, we're limiting it completely, that's what needs to be said. And the other thing. It's often said here that the activists blocked the building, and there's those and they're delaying it. But, dear friends, we have some sort of administrative order where there are just deadlines. And there's always the governing body, the government, the public administration. And that should just decide whether or not the objections of the civil association or the public are justified. And unfortunately, every time the building was blocked, the office couldn't decide. So, first of all, it's the fault of bad public administration, not the fact that the public, as they say, is full of shit. So let's do this by improving the performance of the public administration, and then we won't have annual delays and multiannual delays in public buildings. This is probably the fundamental problem that we are not dealing with and which unfortunately, by restricting public participation, we will not solve.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u43	Yes, Mr Kučera, Mr Böhnisch after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u44	Thank you for the floor. I would just add a little bit to my previous speaker, Mr Zemk. Not only public administrations, but also today it is a great fashion to blame everything on them so-called. Green eco-terrorists. No eco-terrorists, let alone green, are often not responsible for the construction of transport structures today, as they are being built and especially as they are being repaired. When we look at those parked finishes and diggers and bulldozers by the side of the road at five o'clock in the afternoon, the fact that construction companies are unable to build on two shifts, that they are unable to start construction at six in the morning and work until 22.00, it is not really the eco-terrorists' fault. Please take a look at the D7 repair here by the airport. They start at eight o'clock and finish at four o'clock in the afternoon. It's not the eco-terrorists' fault, it's the inability to run traffic. That's the basic problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u45	Mr Böhnisch, Mr Stanjura after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let's not execute the messengers of bad news. After all, it is not the citizens' initiatives and citizens who will respond that the documentation is badly prepared or that the authorities are making bad decisions. And the statistics make it clear that delaying infrastructure structures is not a matter of obstruction to the public concerned, but it is a matter of poorly prepared material and defective decision-making by the state administration. That's it. Imagine that the F3 amendment would go through, that in a region that is affected by the presence of shaving gas, and that near the house you will start building a mining tower, because the exploration of shale gas is half-mining, and you will have no influence on it anymore. I don't think we want this return much and many years ago. And after all, we have resisted this temptation several times in the past. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u47	President Stanjura, followed by Mr Foldyna, still factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u48	Under the Rules of Procedure, I am responding to Mrs Nováková's speech. I guess we all live somewhere else. It's not like we're talking about taking the public's right, but they're supposed to have it once, not seven times. Principles of territorial development, zoning plan, EIA, zoning decision, building permit. Over and over again, the same old guys. And we say, "That's it. That's it. What's wrong with wanting the association to have local jurisdiction? I personally take seriously if people who live there have a problem with any construction and in sufficient numbers, not one or three to establish a civil association. What you said is an extreme attitude that really hinders construction. Absolutely. The fact that the public administration is also making mistakes is also true, but that is not one or the other. And if you add it up, we have a record-long construction preparation. In the end, building that building is the easiest thing at the time. Even with the problematic selection process. So, yes, but once. And once in court, and decided. Somehow. I'm not saying they're never right, but we have ideological opponents of construction here, it's a pretty good industry. Unfortunately, the state supports them very often with subsidies, its own opponents, it is absolutely incredible for me, but it is because it is popular. This government, this Minister of the Environment, is doing the same. It's popular. He's calm. Then I'll send some environmental organization money. So what if he's stalling? As long as they don't write about me. So if he wants to talk about public access, local government is key. It's the key! But if we're gonna have that condescending attitude again that these councils don't actually know what territorial plans they approve, and they have to be told by someone across the country, that's a bad approach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u49	Thank you. Mr Foldyna, Mr Okleštěk, Mr Bendl and Mr Kalousek, all factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u50	Thanks for the word. I just can't keep my mouth shut when Members here pretend to be the bearer of good and, in fact, the authorities are doing it wrong and everyone should be able to step in. It's not like that at all! [[He speaks strongly, loudly.]] Those authorities are doing all these things in accordance with the law, they're trying to do it legally, but we're doing those laws here! So either we make the mistakes and send it to the authorities, and we give them the space to make sure they're getting to an uncertain area, or we start doing it properly. I fully support and sign under what my previous speaker, Mr. Stanjura, said. And if you look at the time of completion of the D8 motorway, we spent 600 million crowns each year. Every year, several people died on those roundabouts. Every year there were several seriously injured. Only because various initiatives entered the building management of the individual building buildings that were there. The zoning plan, when we were discussing the law on the impact of construction, three or four years ago we discussed with the initiatives whether it would be built there! It's obvious - once and for all! If you've been through lawsuits for three years and beyond, you're out of room. That's normal in Germany, Austria. We wonder how fast they build and beautifully build in Germany and Austria. Well, we're surprised that the law that allows them to do this is the pavilion of this House, and we're trying to straighten it out. So come straighten it out and don't play the benefactor all the time!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u51	Mr. Mr. Okleštěk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, for the lady of the house, through you. We don't do those laws for headlines, we do them to build. I have to turn against the fact that we prevent the public from entering these processes. We're making zoning plans. Everyone has a chance to express themselves. We make the principles of territorial development, everyone has the opportunity to express themselves. We're doing an environmental impact assessment on the major buildings, an environmental impact assessment. Three times, that's it! Please, what else do we want? Here I fully agree with what my previous speakers have said, both Mr Stanjura and Mr Foldyna. And I think that the public concerned has an extreme amount of opportunity to express itself, and that should be enough for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u53	I beg Mr Bendl to make a point of fact, and after that Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u54	Thanks for the word. Mr Böhnisch and I haven't known each other so much, Mr Zemk more. However, through the President, I would like to say: If you were, the southern part of the Prague Circuit was never built. So we wouldn't be going to R6 today or D6 to Karlovy Vary today. Prague would be absolutely banged up. I have the experience because I was an official at the Municipal Authority in Kladno once, where I was in charge of the zoning plan and building authorisation. I was the mayor of Kladno, where we struggled with the situation of modernization and construction of the then R6. In particular, it was the Central Bohemia Region in the past who issued building permits for the southern part of the so-called. Prague Circuit. Which has been a planned construction for decades. And it is possible to demonstrate the purpose behaviour of a number of individuals presented by so-called environmental organisations. It's just not true what you're saying, and it's not true at all - and I have to defend at least the honest officials at the construction offices. If we come up with the pasquil that this building office is supposed to decide, and we say that everyone can comment on everything, and then we blame it on the clerk that it takes him a long time to figure it out, then it's totally crazy. That's crazy. It's not those people's fault. Sorry, I almost want to say sorry like. But it was the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u55	Another point of fact, President Kalousek and then Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u56	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, as Chairman of the TOP 09, I am very proud that our environmental agenda has a high priority in defending our values. That our professional authorities, professors Moldan, Hruška, Šarapatka, Mr Kučera and tesař have international reputations. And our political behavior also fits that. We consistently protect the landscape and nature for future generations, a truly conservative theme. But we are also in the Czech Republic, and we do not want to close our eyes to the public secret that there is, besides thousands and thousands of honest conservationists, something like ecological racketering, which is a very profitable and very ugly trade. And those who devote themselves to it are corrupting the good reputation of conservationists and landscapes. And based on this approach, we will vote rationally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u57	Mr Gabal and then Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u58	Thank you. Madam Secretary, Prime Minister, fellow Members, I would like to take a short, short look at this debate. The EIA, or Aarhus Treaty, is a principle that significantly distinguishes European law, for example. from the United States, from Asia and from developing countries elsewhere, creating a situation in which citizens can, of course, enter into decision making and, in some cases, about private property, projects or public goods. That's what's important, and I think it's so unique that it's short-sighted to lose a few bad experiences. If it worked that way that it couldn't be built, it wouldn't have built a freeway of Germany, Austria, France, Spain and others, which means that it needs to be worked on. Unfortunately, I have to say that we probably inherited from the previous regime, and it went back to the 1990s, that ecology and civil activity are a conflict with the state and business. It's just an unpleasant climate that surrounds these things here. And it's perceived a priori as a contradiction. Like a force thing. And it is so perceived, unfortunately, from both sides, also from environmental civil associations etc. So I would be very much in favour of keeping the scope of participation and learning how to negotiate much better, because I say again, it's in Germany, it's in Austria and elsewhere, and the EIA works there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u59	The Minister is now registered with a factual remark. Because if it's a priority right, they have a real priority. So, de facto, excellent. Then Mr Zemek, then President Stanjura and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell you what this is all about. This is not a change to the amendment to the law on spatial planning, the construction order, which means amendments to the construction law itself. This is not even a draft amendment to the EIA amendment. This is Mr Foldyna proposal to amend one paragraph in the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. I would like to make a point of what's really going on in there. At the moment, according to the current regulation, according to the section, which is in the law on nature and landscape protection, there may also be associations in the event that the building office is subject to a project procedure that did not require an environmental impact assessment, provided that the location and permission of the construction project could affect public interests protected by Act 416, which is the law on speeding up construction, meaning landscape, wild plants and wild animals, second, meet the conditions laid down by law. And in the original amendment proposal, this amendment is not mentioned at all. Mr Foldyna's MP's proposal requires that associations - associations - participate only in proceedings conducted only under the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. There is only one thing that is changing here, which means that they will not be involved under administrative proceedings - I am interpreting Mr.Foldyna's proposal here - but it is the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. [[10.30 hours]] Here I would like to mention: If a building permit is requested, the municipality defending the interests of its municipality is always present through a territorial plan where it is a party to the proceedings, and, of course, a building permit as well as the EIA Act, that is to say, obtaining environmental impact assessments. So no one is voted out. It is merely proposed by this amendment that associations should be subject to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act and not to administrative proceedings. That's all. No one is voted out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u61	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. I would like to end the debate ambitiously before the vote, but I still have four factual points to make. The first is colleague Zemek, then colleague Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u62	Thank you for the floor. I do not want to respond to my previous speaker, Mr. Bendl, who here indicated something in the sense that the Prague Circle would not be built because of the likes of me. Well, I have to say no. Mr President, I do not feel like being the one blocking buildings here. On the contrary, I have worked in public administration for perhaps longer than you have on the basis of administrative decisions, and I have to say from my experience that public participation has always been an asset to me, except for a few exceptions. Of course, I agree that associations that are purposefully made to block something, but in the vast majority of public participation, at least from my personal experience, were positive. And may I make a brief remark to the Minister. She said there was nothing really going on, that actually where the administrative proceedings under Law No. 114, that's where public participation is preserved. This amendment to the Construction Act changes a number of administrative procedures to binding opinions and this is no longer a process for the public to sign up to. So let's say this also as B goes to A. She's keeping the participation there in administrative proceedings, but we're limiting the administrative procedures and turning them into binding opinions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u63	I thank my colleague Zemek for his time and we will continue with the factual remark of Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, preparing for the factual remark Pavel Kováčik. Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u64	I would like to respond to Mr Gabal's speech. If only the headlines change and we tell the EIA law to Germany, Austria, and now I could actually list all the EU Member States, you're absolutely right, but maybe the House could ask our Parliamentary Institute to straighten out the contents of those laws for us. So extremely strict, unnecessarily strict EIA law is none other than us. And it was your government coalition that pushed him through, and then we've been dealing with it for years -- that originally 10, then 9 buildings got an exception, and other dozens of buildings are being held back by the wrong law. But I would recommend to all those who have never sat in the council that discussed the zoning plan to go there sometime. It's not easy, it's complicated. And that's where the critical public participation is. Nobody's protesting it, and that's right. And these negotiations are long, they are repeated - the proposal for change, the concept, the change itself, very much, and it is an extremely powerful instrument that the municipal council has in this case, because you really decide on the whole territory regardless of ownership and determine the type of buildings that may arise there. [[unintelligible]] And that's the key. And we have to trust the municipal council to make the right decisions on their territory. That is why we have representative democracy at community level. So let's not say that if a three-member civil society can't enter a hundred times in the building process, that we are violating some European principles and reducing the scope of participation, or how the Eurospeek is! Mr Gabal, try to go sometime or take part actively as a citizen of either the zoning plan or the change of the zoning plan, and you will see for yourself how much space there is. That's right. And when we say that the public concerned should enter, we say once. It's not that not once--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u65	Prime Minister, don't bother me! It's a real point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u66	There's a difference! I'm not bothering you. Only for Mr Gabal. Zero and one is really a big difference!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u67	Now Mr Pavel Kováčik's factual remark, but the factual comments have multiplied, so I will read them. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Madames and gentlemen, it is not my fault that the factual remarks that are responding to the debate are multiplying. I would also like to respond to Mr Gabal, through the President, who accused - there is a lot to blame for the previous regime, but the fact that today there is such a relationship with the civil associations and various other public activities, perhaps this is a joke by fellow Member Gabal that the previous regime is responsible for this. I must say that the KSČM appreciates civic associations, civic activities that are generally to the point, are not political, they are a voluntary boost of civic engagement, and here it is necessary to sort of bow down and express great admiration to the people who do these things. Without entitlement to remuneration, without entitlement to financing from foreign sources, for example. And then there are also so-called civil associations that are created purposefully to prevent something from helping, funded differently. Some of us here refused to put them under the contract register so they wouldn't find out where the money came from. But I'm gonna go back to what the previous regime is responsible for. This statement by my colleague Gabal is probably from that category, such as yes, yesterday was a really ugly, sudden drop in temperatures, it rained, it was ugly - it is also a remnant of the previous regime. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u69	I thank President Pavel Kováčik for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Pavel Blažek, Mr Petr Bendl will be ready. Everyone to a point of fact. Then I have four more. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u70	Hello, thank you for your word. Here are different terms such as civil society, civil society, etc. So please note that the only system where they can function is democracy. In order for democracy to work, public authorities have to function again, and those civil society bodies are to complement public authorities where the state does not work at all. They may have to be criticized, but they must never replace them, because then public authorities in democracy will cease to function, democracy will cease to function, and therefore the space for civil society will also disappear, so that they can speak, because there will be someone who will say: I will ensure a functioning state. And whoever provides for a functioning state won't let anybody talk anymore, and they'll bring him to that power themselves. So when we're talking about civil associations completely freely and normally, we're not talking about them, but on the contrary, we're trying and we have to have the courage to tell them: "Dear sweets, there are already certain activities where you can't operate the state, but we have to have the courage to tell them, that's the moment. Nothing more, nothing less. No one's taking anything from them, but they can't replace the authorities of the state. I just can't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u71	I thank Mr Pavel Blažek for his contribution and for his time. Now, Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Jiří Junek, will prepare himself for factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u72	Have a nice day. The Minister here described the amendment and the stage of the procedure. I'll try to contribute such a personal experience. I realized a construction in the city where I worked, whose ecology could hardly have been doubted. It was a tram track. It was preceded by the revitalization of brownfield after an old chemical factory that was cleaned. At the same time, a biocorridor was created within the construction and a revitalized watercourse that runs around the construction. Yet environmental initiatives have emerged against this construction and their intention was to lead the tram line a little differently, even though the route was in line with the zoning plan. What happened? At first, there was a fridge that said it was nesting and flying. So that's where the environmental inspection was looking for the fridge, and the only one she found was an ice cream case from the same name. Then the beaver appeared, so he searched again for the beaver and was not found. And when the beaver wasn't found, all of a sudden the citizens started to call. [[10.40 hours]] We've been trying to figure out what kind of citizens they are. It was mostly homeless registered at City Hall. We started to track down those homeless people who were giving these sophisticated objections to the tram track. We tracked them down, and they all gave up the filing and wrote that they really didn't file the submission. This was my personal experience in building a tram line, to which the Swiss Confederation's government contributed within the Swiss Funds, and health through this Environmental Initiative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u73	I thank Mr Martin Novotný. Now, Mr Jiří Junek, Mr Gabal, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u74	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'd take the liberty of putting it back a little bit on a material level. It seems to me at times that it's a little bit of a hunch here. Probably a question for Mr. Foldyna translator. There is some relevant statistics on how many construction and other proceedings have been conducted in 2016 and how many of these procedures have been blocked by the so-called "Building and other proceedings." eco-terrorists? My point is, if we're talking here, if we're 50 percent, 5 percent. And that's pretty important information, because from what I'm hearing here, I have a feeling that in the Czech Republic it's not built that it's completely decaying. I'm afraid to come out of the House so I don't get jumped by some eco-terrorist, because what I'm hearing here seems like there's really nothing that greens can do about it. So if Mr Foldyna could answer that question, if he or she has any such statistics as the petitioner, which speaks of how many percent of the various civil associations are actually blocking various buildings and various proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u75	Thank you. Now, my colleague Ivan Gabal, Mr Michal Kučera, will prepare to make factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u76	Thank you. Just for a very short time. First of all, I personally think that the discussion suggests that the confrontational atmosphere just continues here and is an objective reality. Two. As far as my experience with the zoning plan and strategic plan is concerned, I guess I worked two or three first years since 2010 at the invitation of Mayor Hudeček on a strategic and metropolitan plan in Prague. Today we are dealing with whether or not we will extend the deadline for processing the Prague zoning plan for a simple reason. The last zoning plan of Prague is from 1997 by Mayor Kasel. Although the town hall led by the ODS tried in 2006, it failed and was unable to do so, and it did not, because the pressure of the developers was so great that no one even tried to do the zoning plan. What is attributed here to a number of civil organizations in Prague meant, not their responsibility, that we are de facto almost since 1997, 2007, 2017 - twenty years without updating the zoning plan and clearly nobody misses it at the town hall, or doesn't mind, or is being processed now. And as for the remark that KSČM likes civic associations. I remember how my colleagues from the Communist Party treated me when I founded the Club of Independent Intelligence in 1989. It's a good thing they don't do that anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u77	So that was my colleague Gabal. He kept the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, also with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u78	Thank you for the floor. I would just briefly reply to my previous speaker, Mr Junek, who asked if he would come by or not. He's not. The Minister of Transport Ťok and the Minister of Environment Brabec do not build and are responsible for this, because we do not build transport structures. Not terrorists or other green activities. I'd like to say here that we should decide not from wall to wall, i.e. a maximum approach to one or the other side. The relationship should be balanced. And again, I point out that sometimes the fact that it does not stop is very often called for citizens' initiatives. Indeed, this is often not true, although it is true that in many constructions some activities have really done bear service to the civil services. This means, I am calling for this situation to be balanced both towards accelerated or rapid building procedures, and, on the other hand, the possibility of engaging in a proper process of public activities or civil associations. And let's not really go from wall to wall, that means nothing or everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u79	I thank Mr Kučer. That was the last logged in. In that case, I give the floor in the debate to the rapporteur for his speech. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I said here in the debate, we have eleven points of legislative technical adjustment. Thank you, Mr. Fichtner, for the heads-up. There has been a mistake with regard to his amendment, so I will read the twelfth legislative technical amendment: In Amendment D4, "6" is replaced by "12." This is the twelfth legislative technical regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u81	I thank Mr Uhlík. Since I have no one to attend the debate, I am ending the debate. We can therefore address the vote on the amendments. At this point, I ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to come back to the counter and introduce us to the voting procedure, or to the changes that have occurred during the debate, to present individual amendments. Before the vote, I will ask him for an opinion, and I will also ask the Minister for an opinion on individual proposals. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u82	Thank you for the floor. As far as the proposal is concerned, I will read resolution 264 of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 53rd meeting as a guarantee committee after discussion of the House of Press 927/5 after second reading (a) recommends: The Chamber of Deputies shall vote in third reading on the proposals submitted to draft Law No. 927 as follows: 1. Proposals for legislative technical adaptations pursuant to § 95 para. Article 3 (2) of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading. Then there's 72 steps I won't read, they're in the material. (b) adopt the following opinions on individual amendments. I shall give an opinion on each amendment. It further empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the appellant and the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to propose other necessary adjustments pursuant to Section 95 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 2, which is what happened. It further empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinions at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies in the third reading of the bill. Fifthly, (c) Instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. So many resolutions, a motion for a procedure. As for the already - and as I said in the debate - announced changes, they are divided into two points, so we will vote twice. One. This is a proposal for amendments to the voting procedure because there have been some minor irregularities, errors in Houses document 927/6, so I will read: One. The vote under paragraph 14 is an incorrect reference to the vote thirty-three; there should be a reference to the vote thirty-four. I suggest we change number 33 to 34. Two. The vote under paragraph 28 does not exactly state that Amendment R16 is identical to Amendment Q. I propose that the word 'identical' be deleted. The non-voting of amendments R16 and R4 in the event of adoption of Amendment Q remains unaffected. [[10.50 hours]] Three. In the vote under paragraph 34, I propose, at the end of this point, to launch the 'coat, C16 with A19' as an unvoted amendment, as these amendments will be voted on under paragraph 10 under the proposed procedure. Four. In the vote under paragraph 60, there is an incorrect reference to the vote of fifty-eight. There's supposed to be a reference to a vote of fifty-nine. I suggest we change number 58 to 59. Five. Voting under paragraphs 67 and 68 shall be mutually exclusive. Both Amendment C52, the vote under paragraph 67 and Amendment R15, the vote under paragraph 68, cannot be approved because they both contain a different regulation of the same provision. I propose: add "if accepted, non-voting R15' to paragraph 67. To point 68, add the text 'if not adopted, in the vote of sixty-seven C52'. There. That's a draft amendment to the voting procedure number one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u83	Thank you to the rapporteur. As for the confusion of the individual links, they are not necessary, that is logical. But the exclusion of the vote - the petitioners, does that agree with the change? If not, there is no reservation, but we will have the changes voted here and then the procedure vote as a whole. So first... Once again, the rapporteur, yes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u84	As I've announced, the changes are two. That was the first, the five points. As far as the second proposal is concerned, it has six points. So vote number fifteen split into two votes - 15.1. and 15.2. 15.1 vote on L3 and L4. 15.2. vote on L5. Two, three, four, five, six. It's simple. This vote - it concerns the vote thirty-four and 35, 36, 37 and 39. Vote separately on the various points in these votes. So that's draft No. 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u85	This is an increase in the number of votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u86	Moreover, it is 35 votes against the current committee proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u87	Okay. On this point, Mr Bendl's comment on the procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u88	The rapporteur spoke of three comments on this or modifications to the proposal, or five. I'd only question the last one. And about the last one, that means that there will be 37 more votes, etc., because this is contrary to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which said that we should vote on this collectively, so I would like to vote on this separately. About this adjustment in the voting procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u89	In view of the context between the various provisions, we will therefore vote on the procedure in three steps. In the first step on the changes made by the rapporteur in the first amendment. In the second step, we would vote... And in that first step, I would include the voting department in point 15 L3, L4 as one. And L5's second. That was the first step in the vote, which is why no one is questioning it. But we would vote in particular if paragraphs 35, 36, 37 and 39 are voting, 34 - sorry, yes, I have a note. Whether it's going to be a single vote or a single vote, just like the committee asked, okay? This will be voted separately. That will be the first vote we make. Then we will vote on the changes and then we will vote on the procedure as a whole. Agreed with the defendant? Is there any change, Mr rapporteur? No. So if there is no other change, then first we vote on whether points 34, 35, 36, 37 and 39 are voted individually or separately. The committee's proposal is at once and the rapporteur's proposal is individually. Now we're going to vote on the rapporteur's proposal for a separate vote on those points 34 to 39, okay? Do we understand each other? [[Rapporteur: Yes.]] So now the proposal is either the rapporteur's proposal or the committee's proposal. The first vote I will begin with, number 55, is whether these points should be voted separately. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 55 of 169 present for 16, against 131. Points 34, 35, 36, 37 and 39 will always be voted as point en bloc. Now the changes in the voting procedure that were in the first and second steps. That means the fifteenth vote separately, including. I've started voting number 56 and I'm asking who's in the procedure for a change. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 56 of 169 present for 154, against 5. The motion was accepted. So we will now vote on changes to the procedure as a whole with approved changes that we have made at step two. Yes. I've started voting number 57 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 57 of 169 present for 160, versus 1. The voting procedure has been approved with changes that have been loaded. We can follow the voting procedure that we have now approved. The first point is therefore legislative technical adaptations. rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u90	Yes, there are 12 of them. We are voting on legislative technical adaptations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u91	Yes. Is it yours or isn't it? [[Rapporteur: Agreed.]] Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. We will decide in the vote number 58, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of legislative technical adaptations, i.e. all twelve legislative technical adaptations. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 58 of 169 present for 162, against no one. They've been approved. Voting on individual amendments. The first proposal, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u92	First step - D1 colleague Fichtner. It extends the exception for the construction of a swimming pool up to 40 m2 when no territorial decision or territorial consent is required. The exception, or amendment, extends to the roofing of the pool. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u93	Madam Secretary? [[Unadvisable.]] I've started voting number 59 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 59 of 169 present for 1, against 115. The motion was not accepted. Second draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u94	D2 of colleague Fichtner. It precises the legal definition of construction modifications. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u95	Madam Secretary? [[There's a major disagreement here.]] I've started voting number 60, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 60 of 169 present for 2, against 122. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u96	D3 of colleague Fichtner extends the exception of a government amendment so that the exchange of technical infrastructure management in the monument zone or reservation does not require a decision on the location of the building and territorial approval. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u97	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 61 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 61, from 169 in favour of 3, against 132. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u98	D4 of Mr Fichtner, the amendment introduces a 12-month deadline for the municipal council to make a change to the zoning plan. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u99	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 62 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 62, from 169 in favour of 7, against 130. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u100	F1 and F2 of my colleague, Foldyna, cancels the possibility of being a party to the territorial and construction proceedings under another legislation. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u101	Madam Secretary? [[There's a major disagreement here.]] I've started voting number 63 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 63, from 169 in favour of 25, against 112. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u102	Under point S of colleagues Klašky - puts into force territorial planning documentation until 31. 12. 2022, by two years. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u103	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] I've started voting number 64 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 64, from 169 in favour of 111, against 16. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u104	So we're not going to vote on G1 Step 7. We approach the eighth step, the G2 through the G10 in one step, the proposal of our colleague Rais. This is a regulation of the possibility of the location of religious buildings. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u105	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] I've started voting number 65 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 65, from 169 in favour of 21, against 76. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u106	The ninth step, we are voting on H2, H5, H9 by one vote, Mr Snopek's amendment regulates the definition of territorial proceedings. These are persons affected by the protection zone. Opinion of the Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u107	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 66 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 66, from 169 present for 151, against 4. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u108	So we're not going to vote on A19, or C16, or A27, or C23, and A35, or C31.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u109	Okay. Another suggestion, then.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u110	Just here at step 5 - I'm sorry. [[He's thinking for a while.]] Step 10 - we will not vote. We're taking the 11th step. This is H3, H6, H8 and H10 of colleague Snopek. For projects intervening in the territory of several municipalities, a large number of parties to the notice of initiation shall always be served by a public order. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u111	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 67 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 67, from 169 in favour of 158, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u112	Then we will not vote on A28, or C24, because they are colliding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u113	Yes, we can continue, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u114	As regards Step 12 - H4, H7, H11 and H12 by Mr Snotka, this is a sub-treatment with the maintenance of rules which may contain objections by the parties under special legislation. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u115	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting 68, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 68, from 169 present for 148, against 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u116	Then we will not vote on A38 or C33.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u117	Yes. Next step?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u118	Thirteenth step - under point I, the amendment is made by Mr Zahradník. The amendment aims to define the concept of line construction as defined by the new Civil Code. These are not part of the land on which they stand. Unadvisable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u119	Madam Secretary? [[There's a major disagreement here.]] I've started voting number 69 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 69, from 169 in favour of 16, against 106. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u120	Fourteenth step - Two colleagues Adámek. The stopping area may be defined by amending the zoning plan in the absence of a dissenting opinion on the proposal for an amendment. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u121	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 70, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 70, from 169 in favour of 3, against 133. The motion was not accepted. Let's keep going. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u122	Fifteenth step, here's the L3 split, so the L3 and the L4 of fellow Kudela. Explicitly exclude the possibility to exclude the territorial planning documentation of the location of buildings for agriculture. No opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u123	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] I've started voting number 71 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 71, from 169 present for 31st to 68th. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u124	15/2, it is a proposal L5, the term "farming" is replaced by the term "plantings for plant and animal production and processing of animal and plant production." No opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u125	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] I've started voting number 72 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 72 of 169 present for 30, against 67. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u126	The 16th step, L6, L8, Members of the Kudela, proposes that the zoning plan also define areas for buildings and facilities for agriculture and for gardening. No opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u127	Madam Secretary? [[Here too, a very fundamental disagreement.]] I started voting number 73. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 73 of 168 present for 35, against 90. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u128	The 17th step, L7 of fellow Kudela. According to the amendment, neither territorial decision nor territorial agreement will be required for buildings for agriculture up to 60 square metres of built-up area and up to 5 metres of height. Unadvisable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u129	Madam Secretary? [[Also a major disagreement.]] I started voting number 74. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 74 of 168 present for 37, against 66. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u130	Step 18, L1 of fellow Kudela. It extends buildings that do not require notification or building permits, but require decisions on the location of the building. They are constructions - products fulfilling the construction function. Unadvisable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u131	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 75. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 75 of 169 present for 11, against 90. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u132	M1 colleague Bendl, amendment. This is the coordination of the construction law and the House press 936, it is the Act on reducing the cost of introducing high-speed networks and electronic communications. It's out of line here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u133	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 76 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 76 of 169 present for 154, against 2. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u134	Step 20, M4, M5 of my colleague Bendl. It regulates the wording of the Act into a more general text so that the impact on infrastructure in full scope can be assessed in the territorial proceedings. Also without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u135	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] I've started voting number 77 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 77 of 169 present for 16, against 104. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u136	Step twenty-one, 01, 02 by colleague Langšádlová, amendments. It requires that the planning documentation or changes in the electronic version be prepared in a machine-readable manner. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u137	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 78. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 78 of 169 present for 155, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u138	P5 of Petr's colleagues. The amendment specifies the competence of the Regional Authority in the delegated exercise of State oversight in matters of territorial planning and construction rules. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u139	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 79 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 79 of 169 present for 160, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u140	P6 fellow Petr. It cancels the obligation, but gives the Ministry of Regional Development the opportunity to set up an organizational component of the state. Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u141	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 80. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 80 of 169 present for 151 Member, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u142	P1 of Petr's colleagues. This is an extension of the substantive competence of the Ministry of Industry and Trade as a special construction office to the entire nuclear power plant complex. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u143	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 81. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 81 of 169 Members present for 154, against 1. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u144	P7 colleagues of the Petr. This is a text specifying Section 27 of the Act concerning the acquisition of territorial analytical documents. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u145	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 82. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 82 of 169 present for 155, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u146	P2 and P3 of fellow Petrů. The proposed amendment corrects the wording of the construction law in connection with the adoption of the atomic law. Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u147	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 83 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 83 of the 169 present for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u148	P4 colleagues of Petrů regulate the competence of the MIT. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u149	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 84. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 84 of 169 present for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u150	Q Kovářová's colleague specifies the wording of § 119 para. 1 government design and specifies a circle of buildings subject to the approval or approval decision. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u151	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 85. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 85 of 169 present for 111, against 46. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u152	The motion was accepted. We will not vote on R16 and R4, which are in collision. So let's not talk about step 29, and let's not talk about step 30. Step 31 solves R1, R2, R3 colleagues Oklešťka. This is a legislative technical amendment to the text of the Government's draft law, which aims at a clearer interpretation with the acquisition and publication of territorial development policy. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u153	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 86. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 86. Of the 169 present for 142, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u154	R17 colleagues Oklešťek. The amendment to § 43 sets out the content of the municipal zoning plan the concept of the area of landscape changes. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u155	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 87. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 87. 168 for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u156	R18, R19, R20 and R21 colleagues Oklešťek, it is a modification of the changes to the government's proposal for an amendment concerning the list of offences of natural and legal persons. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u157	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 88. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 88. 168 for 140, no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u158	We're approaching step 34. It is the A1 to A18 Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I'm not gonna read those sentences here, like I was supposed to. It is approved by both the Public Administration Committee and similar proposals are approved by the Economic Committee. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u159	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 89. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 89. Of 168 present for 156, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u160	Unansible are C1, C2, C3, C4, C5, C6, C7, C8, C9, C10, C11, C12, C13, C14 and C15. So the next step - A20 to A26 of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u161	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 90. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 90. Of the 168 present for 154, versus 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u162	The unanswerable are C17, C18, C19, C20, C21, C22. Step 36, A29 to A34 of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u163	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 91. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 91. Of the 168 present for 159, against no one. The motion was accepted. Next step.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u164	Unansible are C25, C26, C27, C28, C29 and C30. Step 37, A36 and A37 of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development abolishes the group of participants in the building procedure for persons who thus lay down specific legislation. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u165	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 92. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 92. Of the 168 present for 151 Members, against 2. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u166	C32 becomes unvoting. [[President: A 37.]] Step 38., A39 of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development proposes amendments to the time limits for publication and the duration of the publication of the notice of the construction project by the Building Authority. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u167	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 93 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 93. Of the 168 present for 133, versus 9. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u168	C34 becomes unvoting. [[Next step.]] A40 to A46 of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u169	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 94 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 94. Of the 168 for 154 present, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u170	The unanswerable are C35, C36, C37, C38, C39, C40 and C41. We have therefore ended the amendments with regard to the construction law itself. Now we're going to change the Nature and Landscape Act. The 40th vote. A47 to the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee extends the exceptions to having permission to cut trees in the protection zone in a thermal energy distribution plant. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u171	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 95. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 95. Of the 168 present for 148, versus 2. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u172	Step 41. F3 colleagues of Foldy's. The participation of environmental associations in territorial and construction proceedings is permitted only in so-called follow-up procedures. The Committee's opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u173	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 96. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 96, out of 168 present for 119, against 15. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u174	R5 colleagues Oklešťka, it is an extension of the text of Section 45 so that the measures aimed at replacing possible temporary losses on the subject of protection may be included. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u175	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 97 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 97, from 168 in favour of 146, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u176	R6 colleagues Okleštek, the adjustment aims to clarify the definition of compensatory measures and the conditions for ensuring them. Such measures may also be considered as compensatory measures which temporarily compensate losses. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u177	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 98 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 98, from 168 present for 130, against 9. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u178	R7 colleagues Oklešťek, in the case of construction and territorial management and environmental impact assessment, where further protection conditions are found to be affected in a particular protected species of plant or animal, a decision may be taken in this proceeding on the basis of a binding opinion of the nature conservation authority. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u179	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I started voting number 99. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 99, from 168 present for 140, versus 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u180	We are adopting amendments to the Law on the Protection of the Agricultural Soil Fund. A48 to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, supplementing the wording of the conditions for granting consent to the withdrawal of land from the agricultural soil fund. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u181	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 100. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 100, from 168 in favour of 153, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u182	I'm sorry. I'm just gonna come back here. Forty votes, or A47 amendments, when we agreed to it, are unvoting C42s.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u183	Okay, let's move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u184	And here at this A48 vote, it becomes an unvoting C44. The next vote R8 by Mr Oklešťek complements § 9 para. Article 6 (b) of the Law on expropriation. There's a letter of recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u185	Okay. Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting 101. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 101, from 168 in favour of 111, against 12. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u186	We are approaching changes in the energy law. C44 of the Economic Committee, the amendment extends the scope of expropriated titles on line construction. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u187	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I started voting number 102. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 102 of 168 in favour of 128 in respect of 6. The motion was accepted. Next vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u188	E1 to E7 of Adamec's colleague, refinement of expropriation legislation, namely expropriation of material burdens. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u189	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 103. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 103, from 168 in favour of 138, against 5. The motion was accepted. Let's keep going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u190	We are going to amend the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. 49. Step - B of the Environmental Committee repeals government amendments aimed at increasing the number of signatures needed to support a legal person whose activity is to protect the environment. That leaves 200 people. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u191	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 104. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 104, from 168 in favour of 113, against 28. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u192	50th vote - J1 to J16, my amendment. This is about aligning the legislation in the present House's printing of the Construction Act with Part 23 and in a separate amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, House's printing 1003. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u193	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Thank you. I've started voting number 105. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting order number 105, from 168 in favour of 153, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u194	This is step 51 - A49 to A51 of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. It is an already announced water management procedure and it is also part of a joint permit for water management based on a binding opinion. It therefore changes to the binding opinion of the Water Authority. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u195	Madam Secretary? [[I'm sure it's okay.]] I started voting number 106. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 106, from 168 in favour of 77, against 47. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u196	That makes C45 unvoted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u197	Well, that wasn't accepted, so why would it become unvoting?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u198	Yes, still. They're identical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u199	If it is absolutely identical, we will not vote on the same matter twice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u200	Unanswerable C46 and C47, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u201	Okay. Okay, next step.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u202	We are moving towards a change in the rules of procedure of administrative, transitional provisions. 52nd step - R9, R10 colleagues Oklešťka. The amendment provides for an action against a decision imposing or authorising the construction of transport infrastructure, the Regional Court in Ostrava. Such actions shall be brought by a specialised Board. Opinion not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u203	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've begun the vote in order number 107 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 107 of 168 present for 87, against 48. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u204	53. A52 - Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The proposal defines an objective time limit for the submission of a proposal, in such a way that a judicial review of a measure of a general nature can only be applied within one year without exception. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u205	Okay, thank you. I've started the vote on order number 108, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 108 of 168 for 149, against no one. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u206	Step 54. It concerns the Act on Administrative Charges. A53 to A54. Excuse me, for the previous step, the unvoting C48 is identical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u207	Your position, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u208	Sorry, I'm going back now. A53, A54 regulates the amount of administrative fees for the decision on the location of the building and the issuing of a building permit for the construction of a wine cellar. Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u209	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've begun the vote on order 109, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 109 of 168 present for 147, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u210	We are moving towards amendments to the Act on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure. 55th vote - L2 of fellow Kudela. It includes in the law a water infrastructure designed to mitigate the effects of drought or other purposes under the Water Law and in the public interest. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u211	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the 110 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 110 from 168 for 153, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u212	Step 56 - R11 by colleagues Oklešťka. It extends § 1 of the Act on the Construction of Railways national or related to them. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u213	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote with order number 111, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 111 of 168 present for 150, against 1. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u214	Step 57 - Amendment under the letter N by my colleague Novotný. It does not change the importance of existing adjustments, but merely eliminates the legal uncertainty of the interpretation of the phrase. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u215	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the 112-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 112 of 168 in attendance for 157, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u216	A55 - Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. It sets out the necessary consistency of the energy infrastructure with the applicable territorial development policy and the principles of territorial development. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u217	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've begun the vote on order number 113, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 113 of 168 for 158, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u218	R12 colleague Oklešťka. The competent authority shall inform the parties to the proceedings where the procedure relates to the Act on Acceleration of Construction. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u219	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote on order number 114, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 114 of 168 present for 151 Member, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u220	If accepted, do not vote on A56, or C4, C9. It's unspeakable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u221	We skip step 60 because it's unvoting. Step 61.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u222	A57, A58 - Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The amendment leaves the building authority the power to combine the territorial and construction management of transport and energy infrastructure structures and further complements the procedural rules for accelerating the construction of transport, water and energy infrastructure. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u223	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started the vote with order number 115, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 115 of 168 for 152, against 1. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u224	The unvoting becomes C50 and C51. Another amendment to R13 by Mr Oklešťek - the amendment instructs the Regional Authority to conduct expropriation proceedings. It's out of line.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u225	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] I've started the vote with order number 116, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 116 of 168 present for 74, against 20. The motion was not accepted. The Minister's major disagreement was successful. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u226	H1 colleague Snopek. It provides for the possibility to place and allow the construction of energy infrastructure in common territorial and construction management and environmental impact assessment. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u227	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've begun the vote on order 117, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 117 of 168 for 134, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u228	R14 colleagues Oklešťek. It changes the procedure for the construction of transport and energy infrastructure mainly by adjusting the relations between the expropriator and the expropriated introduction of a new pre-holding institute. The opinion is a recommendation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u229	Madam Secretary? [[It's a major disagreement.]] I've started the vote on order 118, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 118 of 168 present for 71 Member, against 20. Once again, the Minister was successful. Please, rapporteur, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u230	K1 colleague Adámek. It explicitly states that electricity lines with a voltage level of 400 kV are located above the ground in a built-up area of municipalities. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u231	Madam Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 119, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 119. Of the 168 present for 110, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u232	M2, M3 of colleagues Bendl is heading to coordinate the House's building bill with the Government's draft law on measures to reduce the cost of introducing high-speed electronic communications networks, House's press 936. That's it without an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u233	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 120, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 120. Of the 169 present for 37, versus 59. The motion was not accepted. Before we go any further, I'm saying that Ms. Kailová has a 72 spare card. You may proceed, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u234	C52 of the Economic Committee amends the conditions for an action brought against a decision issued pursuant to the expropriation law so that the action has no suspensory effect and cannot be granted by the court. Unadvisable position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u235	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 121 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 121. Of the 169 present for 44, versus 71. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u236	So he was not accepted, so we are voting on the following, paragraph 68 - R15 of our colleague Oklešťek. The proposal is similar to the previous one. But here it is without an opinion. Sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u237	Voting number 122 is misguided and the rapporteur will be consulted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u238	I'm sorry, I didn't mark the change that was approved. Here we added the text: If accepted, unvoting R15. But he wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u239	If it's not identical, it's voteable.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u240	This is where the legislation was wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u241	Okay, okay. We are voting on the R15 in vote number 123, you have heard the views. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 123. Of the 169 present for 53, versus 47. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u242	We will now vote on amending the Air Protection Act, step 69. It is Amendment A59 to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. It releases provisions already laid down in the amendment with the effect of the Act on Air Protection. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u243	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 124 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 124. Out of 169 for 159, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u244	C53 becomes unvoting. Step 70. Here we approach amendments that change the law on expropriation. The A60 Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development responds to a new institute of joint management and regulates the wording of the Act on expropriation, Section 18 of the Act. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u245	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 125, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 125. From the present 170 for 150, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u246	Step 71 - P8 of fellow Peters. The amendment specifies the scope of the prohibition on expropriation to deal with the land or construction to which the expropriation relates. Recommendant position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u247	Madam Secretary? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 126 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 126. 170 for 153 present, against no one. The motion was accepted. Have we exhausted all the amendments, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u248	Yes, we can proceed to the vote as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u249	Okay, but I've got a visa from the KDU-ČSL club president, before the vote, the ODS club chairman wants to sign up anyway. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u250	Mr President, I would like to ask for a five-minute break for a KDU-ČSL meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u251	Thank you, the President of the ODS Club also has an opinion about before the vote. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u252	I have a similar request, but a different time interval. We voted on more than 200 amendments, we have 72 votes behind us, and we really need to decide in this final vote, and we need to go over what has been approved and what is not, so I am asking you to make a 48-minute break at our club's meeting. We'd start at 12.45.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u253	Okay, so at 12.45 we'd continue by voting on the bill of construction. I'm declaring a break until 12.45 hours. I will read the apologies received by the Prime Minister of the House, and that is Mr Stanislav Berkovec's apology from 12.00 to 14.30 pm, Mrs Válková from 11.30 for health reasons and from 14.30 to 19.00 pm by Mr Marek Ženíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u254	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Madam Secretary, dear ministers. There has been a pause at the meeting of the Civic Democratic Party MEP and we should proceed to the motion for a vote, the bill as a whole. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 and starosta Michal Kučera are still reporting. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u255	Hello. I am only briefly voting on the amendments. I am in favour of Amendment F3, that is vote number 96, I am abstaining, but I have a yes on the Steno Protocol. So I would ask for a correction, but I do not question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u256	There. It has been voted - I ask the rapporteur. All amendments have been voted on, and we will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I shall make the motion for a resolution. There's a check-out request. I checked you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 183/2006 Sb., on zoning and construction regulations, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 927, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Construction law]] Opinion of the rapporteur. [[Positive.]] Madam Secretary's position. [[Positive.]] I am opening the vote on the bill as a whole. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 127. 160 Members and Members are registered, for 117, against 4. The bill was passed. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. [[Let's hear it.]] Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u257	I would just like to thank the legislation - Mrs Doležálková - for its cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u258	Thank you. Madam Secretary with priority rights. After that, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u259	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much for voting in favour of this law. If you have not voted, you have abstained, so I would like to thank you for voting on the various amendments. The law is really very important. It was very hard to really drag him here until the third reading. And I appreciate every voice, even the stalling one, because you just voted for each changeling. Big really thanks to the legislators of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, lower chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u260	Thank you, Minister. Chairman Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u261	Thank you for the floor. In addition to congratulating the Minister for Success, and I also appreciate her thanking me for my abstaining vote, so allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the TOP 09 club today was very pleased and unanimously accepted into its ranks an unattached Member, Kristýna Zelienková. For your information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u262	There. In the light of the agreement of Members' Club Chairs, I propose the following procedure, because I do not consider the third reading of the Funeral Act to be too appropriate at the moment, so I will interrupt the House's meeting until 2:30 p.m. for lunch break. In five minutes, I'll remind you, there's an organizational committee meeting at 12.55. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-001-231.u263	Good afternoon. It's 2:30 p.m. and we'll continue this House meeting. Allow me to begin by reading the apologies of some colleagues. Mr Adam Rykala apologizes today from 14:30 and tomorrow all day for personal reasons. Mr Radim Holeček apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the negotiations. Mrs Fischerová apologizes for her work on Wednesday 5. 4th from 19.00 until the end of the working day. Let's hope we're not here at the time. Mr Vyzula apologizes from 14.30 to 17.00 for reasons of work. She apologizes to Secretary Michaela Marksová from the afternoon meeting due to pre-planned work activities. Mr Koskuba apologizes from this afternoon's meeting until the end of the day and from tomorrow's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for the entire day. Minister Martin Stropnický apologizes from the meeting of the House of the Afternoon, for work reasons. Mr Josef Kott also apologizes from 14.30 to 16.00 without giving a reason. Mr Petrtýl asks for an apology from today's meeting between 12.45 and 15.00 for work reasons. Mr Petr Fiala also apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work. So many apologies for today. We will continue with point 32, which I hereby open. This point is called
