ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u1	238. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 912/ - third reading The Minister will take his seat at the rapporteur's table and also the rapporteur of the Social Policy Guarantee Committee, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil. The amendments are set out in Houses of Press 912/2, which has been delivered to you on 6 March of this year. The resolution of the guarantee committee was then delivered as House press 912/3. I am now asking the appellant if she is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. The plaintiff is interested. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Members of Parliament, I would just like to remind you that the purpose of this law is to eliminate the still unlimited increase in pension age and the highest pension age by setting a fixed limit and proposing 65 years. At the same time, the proposal envisages reviewing retirement age at regular intervals of five years on the basis of a report submitted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to the Government. I would like to say that there are three amendments tabled here and that there is a positive position on all of them and they are quite essential, in particular, the way in which pensions are revised, because this is a change that is in favour of all of our seniors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u3	I thank the Minister and open the debate in which Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová joined first. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, today's third time on another social proposal that we have here to deal with. And once again, here we have a last minute amendment just before the elections, a nice package. [[Objection from the diaper.]] It can be called that, my colleague, by your means, Mr President. Unfortunately, what about the proposal, the amendment, which seeks situations that should be clearly in the commentary procedure, because they are with large budgetary implications, whether they were child allowances or, for example, an increase in long-term sickness, so now we have an increase in pension valorisation. I think that's an extremely irresponsible approach. Of course, President Sklenák here will once again claim that this is no attempt before the election for some kind of packages or gifts for voters. He's gonna say that the government's been raising pensions here for a long time. It is true that they have increased over the long term. On the other hand, the valorisation mechanism, as proposed here by the amendment, is a fundamental change that will certainly have a major impact on the budget, not just for next year, but indeed for the next years. And we are making this fundamental amendment here. So it just shows in itself that either there is no consensus in the government on such fundamental matters and you have to address it with amendments, or you are being chaotic, you are not working well enough because in three and a half years since you are in the government, you have not been able to prepare such a change in a classic way so that the ministries are working on it, and so that the commentary procedure has to be followed and everyone can comment on it, including, say, the Ministry of Finance, because there will be those impacts on the budget. Of course, the right-wing opposition, which will vote against such measures for principle reasons, will be blamed for not wanting to add to the elderly. That they're the bad guys who don't think about seniors here. But we're thinking, please, not just the current ones, but the future ones. Those who are now working or are therefore of working age and are still retiring. Because there's probably no money for their pensions after all. Pension reform, I've already repeated myself here several times, but I can't help but mention, you've canceled without compensation. You've made some cosmetic changes called. the third pillar, the supplementary savings of supplementary pension insurance. You've made some changes there. Yes, new people can save for their children, it's convenient for about a few units of population - and the rest of them nothing. What have you got for him? So that's what you've been pushing for. You're going to argue how you've made the third pillar attractive enough that everyone will now volunteer to save in it. And that the state's first pillar is gonna tighten it all up pretty good. It's not like that. Demographic development is relentless. We all know what it looks like in this direction. The prospects are very pale. Definitely not pink. And from the perspective of your term, and it is the responsibility of the entire government, there has not been a clear action taken here that would be able to guarantee that we will have a sustainable pension system. So all the time, there's only 12 hundred here, another government decree to raise pensions. We're just raising pensions for current pensioners. I know it's kind of popular. On the other hand, the unpopular things need to be said. Where do we get that? Whether we are able to keep it and finance it in years to come, when you may not be with the government, but you are actually giving other governments a clear commitment, and they will have to finance it in some way, or they will have to take unpopular measures to return the system and deal with the valorization in a different way, and they will be for the bad ones who are taking those people away. So this is what you're doing with the amendment. [[11.30 hours]] Otherwise, the very proposal addresses the retirement age, not until 2030, so it concerns those who are now about 50 years old. So once again, here in this direction, a thing that can change a few more times before it really touches these people. You know that very well, but you're saying how you're helping these people in this way. And it says directly in the proposal that those other governments should be dealing with rethinking the retirement age. So we're playing a game here. It's nothing else. I could literally call it a hoax, 'cause that's all it is. It's such a scam for voters that we're here now guaranteeing you the retirement age of 65 years, but we're not saying B anymore, we're not saying those terms anymore, we're not saying when it's going to be. So this is all you can offer within the pension system in the Czech Republic. You're no longer discussing the other aspects of the system that are simply not just about the retirement age. You don't worry about whether the charges will continue to be as high as they are, or if we need to change them in some way. From this point of view, it's highly irresponsible, it's top populist, and don't say it isn't. That's right. And in that regard, of course, we cannot support such things as the TOP 09.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u5	I thank the lady. With priority rights, the rapporteur. I'm sorry. [[I'm ready for Chalánkova.]] Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u6	Good day, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard to talk right now because... There's 1,200, there's something... We're really cute, I agree with that. I'm just sorry we dropped 170 billion on those restitutions. Well, that was a little different coffee. Now, about what we have ahead of us, because I don't want to go into pension reform either. I don't think it's populist to change the valorisation mechanism that's been here a long time, and it needs to change the valorisation mechanism. And I think the way it was designed... It's not about populism. This is about the fact that those pensioners really need more money than they currently do. Therefore, the amendment that will allow them to do so. I have just a few words about the Committee on Social Policy, which discussed this bill and agreed on a few points that I will then talk about when we deal with the procedure. As the Minister has already said, there are not many points, there are actually four and then a proposal as a whole. So when it's my turn to deal with this procedure, I'm gonna say certain things to every point so you know exactly what's being voted on. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u7	Thank you. Excuse me, Madame, just a few more moments of factual commentary. I'm sorry. [[To Chalánkova.]] First of all, President Michal Kučera, Mrs Jana Hnyková, followed by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. All factual points. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u8	Thank you for your word. I would just briefly follow up on the words of my previous speaker, Mr President. If we don't know where we're going, we're going to pull out the church restitution. I want to say that this government coalition has not been able to submit pension reform throughout its government. Everything will be blinded by some amendments and sub-proposals. If you'd come up with a pension reform, we wouldn't have had to deal with hundreds of crowns and hundred and twenty crowns. It's all your fault and your incompetence as a government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u9	Mrs Jana Hnyková and her factual point, after which Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time as well. I, through Mr President, would like to tell my colleague from the Social Committee, Mrs Pekarová Adamová, that it is extremely irresponsible to the elderly that, at a time of economic growth, we should not provide them with a decent life. Half of seniors in the Czech Republic do not even receive an average pension. And I don't want to mention any more numbers on how many seniors live in poverty. I think that today's seniors deserve to have a decent life, so that those years when they receive a very low rate of remuneration for that pension are behind us, so that we always treat the seniors of the present and the future, because they have done a lot of work for this company. And I get it, I also hate that it came up with an amendment. I've already said that in the first part. There's nothing we can do, but it's just on the table here, and I think we should take a responsible stand, because the seniors in the Czech Republic deserve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u11	Thank you. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u12	Only to my previous speaker through you. She doesn't even get half of the people on average wages. It's similar to the pensions then, of course. This is logical in terms of how pensions are linked in this respect to previous earnings as well. But I wanted, in particular, also through Mr President again to Mr Zavadil, the chairman of the committee. To ask, then, if it criticises the fact that we are criticizing the amendment as populist, that we must not afford to say this. So I ask why, in three and a half years, this change, the valorisation mechanism, has not been prepared to go through the normal commentary procedure, why it was not already in the bill itself, and why we have it here as an amendment. Why are we simply dealing with such a fundamental matter, even if the pension committee that recommended it agreed on it, so why doesn't the Ministry normally present such a thing, but is it submitted by a Member as an amendment? I'd like to know the answer to that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u13	Thank you. Mr Michal Kučera and his point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u14	Thank you for your word. I will respond briefly to my previous speaker, Mrs Hnyková. Of course, I and the entire TOP 09 agree that our seniors deserve a good life. The quality of life and the quality of the future deserve the current generation, the middle generation and our children. But what they deserve most is the certainty of how pensions will be paid at a time when they are elderly. And unfortunately, we don't give them that confidence. We are dealing with some ad hoc proposals here in the form of amendments. And the increase, as far as I know, is an average of CZK 500. So why doesn't it take CZK 1,000, CZK 1,200, CZK 2,000? That's what our seniors deserve, too. He deserves 3,000 crowns, too. This whole amendment, as far as I know, is out of the whole pension system. What do we say? We ask this government to come up with a proposal for a pension system. I'm afraid she didn't come.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u15	Thank you. Mrs Jitka Chalánková, now duly applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A lot has already been said here. This amendment to the Pension Insurance Act could also be called waiting for a miracle. Or, which may not be appropriate in this field, or in this plenary, but it reminds you of the situation of a man falling from the 11th floor of a high house and already at level five, already the fourth and thinking: Still good. Especially if I'm re-elected for those four years, maybe. I would now like to comment on the proposal for this amendment itself and then on the individual amendments. A rather large debate has been held on whether or not there has been a reduction in the retirement age at the level of 65 years. The problem is, this kind of ceiling doesn't solve anything in the pension system. First, of course, it applies only to those people who retire after 2030, that is one thing, so we are setting tasks for the following political representation here. And if citizens are approaching this retirement age, it will be found in the recount that it is most likely that it can be identified and calculated that this level will not be sustainable. [[11.40 hours]] Then, simply mathematically, we either shift the retirement age on the basis of all demographic indicators, which will be continuously available and can and must be evaluated on an annual basis, even more often, whatever. Best to find a match across the political spectrum, there's no other way. Mathematically, there is another thing that is politically unacceptable, and that is, at the retirement level at the age of 65, to start reducing pensions. The third option is finding a gold treasure or some oil reserves. Mathematically, there's no other way. Since our government was responsible for trying to approach and look the truth in the eye, it also had to adopt pension reforms. There were two of them. The so-called small pension reform had to respond to the decision of the Constitutional Court, which decided that there had been a denial of the principle of merit among high-income people, and it was necessary to recalculate pensions so that, in addition to the principle of solidarity, which is, of course, correct in our society, the principle of merit was also taken into account properly. On that occasion a table was created, which, of course, is not pleasant and which shows us when we want to maintain a certain amount of pensions, how the retirement age is to be extended or not to be extended. Or maybe it's a proposal to sit at a table across the political spectrum, let's take into account all the indicators that play a role in this pension system, and let's talk about the reform that was somehow voted out and put into life, and that was the so-called big pension reform that allowed the reduction of social contributions, which are ancillary labour costs, which are very high in our country, and yet are being made compulsory, and the possibility of investigating, saving these social contributions on individual accounts of individual workers. The current government abolished this pension reform without compensation and did not say what it wanted to replace it with. If we look at the demographic development and the situation of the pension account, indeed today, when, of course, the deficit of the pension account is quite more favourable - but it is there - than at times when we have lower revenues in the state budget, and therefore lower levies, although this government has increased its minimum wage and contributions in this way actually increases, we also find, on a numerical row to the future, that it can happen that not only the pension account deficit will be what it is now, but unfortunately, due to the inclusion of the demographic crisis, it will be rather higher. Then they will probably have to agree on the next political representation if they do not want to address pension reform, that they will bail out this pension account from the state budget, and that they will have to agree on whether they will obtain money from, for example, money to defend the state, education, health, or from other sources. Therefore, there is quite a smiling amendment C1 and C2 that prohibits the use of reserves in a pension account for the state budget, when this is also far-reaching in numerical order until the foreseeable future is such that we are bailing out a pension account from the state budget. This is a comment on Amendments C1 and C2. With regard to Amendments A1 and A2, which amend the revision mechanism from the level of link to the average wage from one-third to one-half of the average wage growth, certainly, we all want pensioners to have a proper standard of living and also a share in the wealth of society, but by this amendment we do not say that we are increasing our share of the company's wealth, because we say that we are cutting down on those who are working or not respecting the level of these average wages, but we are not addressing the richness of society at all. And the richness of society, and thus the increase in pensions, can only happen by supporting production with increased added value, and that will also suffice us with the valorisation mechanism for one third, in custody of one third of the average wage, because the entire company will become richer. If we don't say this, then society will gradually become poor. That's the truth that needs to be looked into the eyes. If I go back to the proposal for this amendment itself, i.e. the reduction of the retirement age to 65 years, as I have already said, unfortunately it does not solve anything at all. Amendment under letter B by my colleague Of course, the Opálky place the possibility of recounting not for five years, but for three years, it is of course more favourable than leaving the five-year deadline for calculating demographic developments. Ladies and gentlemen, pension reform and pension systems are a very complex and very important part of politics. And it would really be worth it if political representation across the political spectrum found a consensus on what pensions our children's future and future generations will have. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u17	I thank Mrs. Jitka Chalánková. Another duly signed up for the debate with priority rights is the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u18	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Just a little reaction to the previous speakers. You know, pension reform, and I don't want to do training here because we're lost in pension reform and we're on something else, you don't do it every four years. The task of this government was to, and I think it succeeded in stabilizing the first pillar. That is the first point - stabilizing the first pillar. I don't want to go back to that. The start and reconstruction of the third pillar, although it's not what we might need right now, no one is denying that, but it has also succeeded. So if there is no pension reform, and it is not possible to change it every four years, then now it is necessary for us to continue working on pension reform in quotation marks, whether on the third pillar, to talk about responsibilities, optionality, but it is not possible to think that everything can be done within one term. And I think that's what I wanted to talk about here. I'm not going back to retirement. I'll get back to that later.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u19	The rapporteur forced the lady - first Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, after whom Mrs Jitka Chalánková, with factual remarks. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u20	Thank you for the floor. When I saw the rapporteur rise, I had the hope that he might answer the question. It didn't happen. Again, I wonder if he could explain to me how it is, why such a change must be tabled by an amendment, why it could not have gone through a commentary procedure. About what he just said. Through the President, Mr rapporteur, you cannot seriously mean that you started working on this reform. I didn't notice anything. I am quite interested in this issue, but I must say that the pension committee does not even have an assignment to work on pension reform. You can't even call what's happening right now a reform. You'd be lying to yourselves here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u21	Thank you. Mrs Jitka Chalánková and her factual point. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u22	Thank you for the floor. Golden words, my colleague, Chairman of the Social Committee. You are right that pension reform certainly cannot be presented sometime within a short period of four years. Word came out that the first pillar was stabilized. I wonder what it is. Stabilizing by doing nothing, I don't think there's any special merit. And the fact that the stabilization of the pension system can take place in 20 years is exactly the same. Here we need to agree on how stable these pension systems will be in 20 years! That is why I am talking about future generations, because if we lower the social security contributions now, it certainly carries some costs, and that is what the government was counting on, ours, and that is why the levels of value added tax have also been increased, because it meant that all citizens who pay value added tax agree on the fate of the next generation, and this pillow has just been designed to bail out the pension account. In fact, you have abolished pension reform, which means that savings are no longer redirected to savers' accounts, but yet you have not reduced the level of value added tax, so that revenue is still there and reform is not happening. And, of course, the stabilization wouldn't have happened until 20 years later, because there would have been a recalculation of the state pension and the saved package, and after 20 years, there would have been a stabilization. If the company doesn't want to make a deal, it's not a deal. That's a free choice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u23	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Dolejš, followed by the Prime Minister with priority rights. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u24	Dear colleagues, I am pleased to say that a few months before the election, you are beginning to realize that you should have something for the future of pensions in the electoral program. Not bad. But if you don't know exactly what you want, and you don't understand that the pension system should be stable for decades, we'll end up roughly as in this next term. So feel free to demonstrate your shirts here based on what you think you're going to do with the next generations of pensioners, but remember that now we only have two key parametric changes on the table when it comes to putting a stop to retirement, and when it comes to the valorisation scheme. And, of course, we have different political views, but I would underline one thing. This is precisely the thing that the seniors and their organisations have long-term calls for, because any extension of their retirement age and the unsatisfactory rating scheme is affecting them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u25	Thank you, honourable Member. With priority rights, Mr. Prime Minister. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u26	Thank you. Madam, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President, I am not a supporter of long debates at third reading. I think that we should, in principle, respect the spirit of the Rules of Procedure, but if this debate has taken place here, I also feel the need to make a clear statement on it. I certainly do not agree that the changes that we are proposing are not relevant or are not important. In my opinion, they are essential and important. The fact that we are proposing to put an age to 65 into retirement is an important change. It is especially a signal to generations, to those strong population years born in the 1970s, which today bear the main burden of economic life, actually those years born in the 1970s, in the first half of the 1980s, are now the backbones of economically active populations, and we are clearly telling these people at what date they will retire. And for those born in the '70s and '80s, that's good news, because if we hadn't proposed to put a stop to the retirement age of 65, people born in the '70s and '80s would have left later. They'd retire at 66, 67, or even later. And by suggesting that we put an age to 65 into retirement, we also eliminate the abnormality that exists in our country. We are in one direction absolutely extreme when it comes to the pension system. We are extreme in that we have no fixed retirement age. And please look at the surrounding countries, see how it looks in the European Union, look at those countries with a life expectancy similar to that of the Czech Republic. All these states have a fixed retirement age. Somewhere it's 64 years, somewhere it's 65, in a number of countries it's 67, but it's a fixed age. No country in Europe, and please correct me, give me an example of the only country in Europe that has a system that still applies here today. This means that the age is constantly shifting, i.e. Every next generation has the prospect of retiring from the state system a few months later. And yet we all know it's not sustainable. Here it was set, at the time of the right-wing rule, the sliding age of retirement was set, so-called. an endless retirement age, and what did it count on? That people in 70 will be able to stay in the labour market? Do you understand? This is a system that is not sustainable. We lied in our pockets here, or the right-wing majority lied in their pockets when she created a retirement system here that expects people this late in life to be able to make a living and keep it on the labour market. Maybe in a few exceptional professions, but in most professions, of course not. So, in my opinion, what we are proposing here is the same system as it is in the vast majority of other European countries. People just know when they're gonna retire. There's a strong line that shouldn't be re-evaluated unless there are serious reasons for that. 65 years. Instead of 66, 67 or 68, depending on how people were born in those previous years. That's the first point. It's an important change, and I think it's a positive signal to those strong population years, that it's going to be a 65-year-old, and that age isn't going to go on. And the second point concerns valorization. We also know how it seems that the ratio between the average pension and the average wage shifts to the detriment of the pensioners, that the share declines, that in the past it was around 45 percent, today it is around 40 percent, and if we do not change the system of pension valorisation, the share of pensions towards the average wage goes further down. And when you ask people who have a pension before their retirement, their biggest fear is what the pension will be to them and if it means a sharp fall into poverty for them. And unfortunately, almost 20 percent of pensioners belong to that category, which is essentially threatened with poverty immediately. That means another pension system that we're proposing here today will result in no scissors spreading so much between the average wage in the economy and the average pension. This means that we will be able to keep the replacement ratio closer to 40 percent in the coming years, which I think is also important. I know we're talking about abstract topics here today, but for most seniors, the proposal we're going to vote on today is absolutely specific. It is absolutely specific, because if we approve the proposal here today, it will be accepted, so it will allow the valorisation to be around CZK 500 on average next year, which will make up for the last few years, when, especially before 2013, the valorisations were thin, because the valorisation scheme has changed, it has been ignored by full inflation, and only one third of it has been reviewed. So we have made important changes here during the parliamentary term, and we are now completing this with a proposal that, in my opinion, will significantly improve the situation of seniors in the coming years, because there is a valuation scheme here that takes into account their cost of living. It takes them better into account than the current system of accounting for general inflation. And the last point is that I don't speak too long at third reading. It's about the cancelled second pillar. Well, I must say that we are envious in Slovakia, Hungary and Poland that we have actually managed to lift the second pillar so smoothly, because in Slovakia, Hungary and Poland it failed and had to adopt quite an extreme solution, such as in Poland, where, to a large extent, the money that was stacked in the second pillar, the Polish government nationalized them and effectively involved them in public budgets. In Slovakia, Hungary, they cut the second pillar in a significant way because they found that it was not really effective in terms of how it was set up. Thank God we succeeded in abolishing the second pillar within the coalition and within the government majority during this parliamentary term. In fact, it was a bad idea, and I think you know it yourself, coworkers and right-wing colleagues. If this system has worked here for several years and it's been registered with about 80,000 people all over the place, even people with the highest income, even people who don't have to deal with their future retirement income, they just logged in for whom it was extremely advantageous from the point of view of social security contributions, so it's a good thing that the system ended, because in a few years you'd still have to admit that it's a bust, they'd still have to re-set parameters, and eventually it would be just one big blunder. So for public budgets, for seniors, it's a good thing that the pillar got canceled. And let us focus on stabilizing the state pension pillar in the coming years, which must remain here as the main support for future pensioners, and let us focus on attractive pension insurance and voluntary savings under the third pillar. And even here, I think that during this term, we have taken positive steps to help stabilize this pillar of voluntary savings. I understand that there is a debate about whether the procedure was absolutely ideal in terms of submitting amendments, but, in my opinion, it is a procedure which cannot be questioned in any way, and I would very much like the Chamber of Deputies to vote on the proposal today and if the proposal were approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. I have four factual points here. First of all, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová, Jitka Chalánková, followed by Mr Karel Fiedler, followed by Mr Ivan Gabal. Before I give the floor to the Member, Mr Simeon Karamazov apologises today from 11.30 for personal reasons. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u28	Thank you for the floor. We have heard from the Prime Minister here that we are the only ones in Europe who have a variable retirement age that is constantly increasing, and that is proof that this is wrong. Let me tell you, Prime Minister, through the President, that we are the only ones in Europe who will now have, if this goes through the approval process to the end, differentiated contributions according to the number of children. And that's okay with you? So on the one hand, being the only one in Europe with one parameter of the system is a glitch, and on the other hand, what you're introducing, where it's actually a clear misconception of the system of creating a much more complex one, it's okay, even if we know that the only country that tried to implement this instrument was Slovakia, where they canceled it after two years. That's okay. Well, that's one thing. That's one point. That's interesting. Next thing. You said it was safe for people to have a clear line of retirement. I've got the bill we're talking about printed here, including the explanatory statement. [[He's showing a stack of papers.]] I would like to quote from this section 4a, which is being inserted there, that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs will submit a report to the Government by 30 June of the calendar year ending with a figure of 4 or 9, on the state of the pension system of the Czech Republic and on its expected development, taking into account the demographic situation, etc. I'll give it to you, Prime Minister, so you can read it so you know what we're talking about. Because in the bill itself, you're already saying it's meant to be re-evaluated. So what's the certainty? Security for how long? For the next two years? Or, in fact, until the year that ends with a four, and the year that ends with a nine? To say this completely pregnantly, as it is in the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u29	Thank you, Madame, for keeping time. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'm recording three factual points. First off, Mrs Chalánková, Mr Fiedler will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I thank my colleague, too, because this is what I wanted to say, that instead of being sure, we are putting those next generations into uncertainty. Apparently, the Prime Minister didn't listen to me very much, because if we're changing the valorisation mechanism from one-third to one-half, then something really changes. One third is always one third. And if average wages go up, the one-third will be higher, of course, and the valorization will be higher. I've already made that clear, and there's no need to change that. Either the company gets richer or it doesn't. If you're talking about only 80,000 people entering a major pension reform, of course. They have been warned from the start that if social democracy comes to power, it will abolish this pension reform. We introduced it as optional, voluntary, which, of course, is the fault of this system, because 3 percent are always 3 %, and it doesn't matter if it's from a higher or lower wage, because it's always a percentage. That's the percentage charge. If you're talking about Slovakia or Hungary abolishing its pension savings pillar, yes, there was a much higher percentage to save. But they're involved back in the state budget by decision, but we're still taking them there, too, because if we're not reducing social security contributions, we're still taking them there. As for the fact that our future pensioners after 2030 will be sure when they will retire - well, they will not. And once again, I'd have to go back to the tripartite: we'll recount, we'll rethink, we don't really know, and then maybe we'll have to do something. Unfortunately, European countries must also approach the need to re-evaluate the age of retirement they have today, even for 67 years. In our country, extreme dependence is on the first continuous pillar. In other countries there are other possibilities of saving, employee insurance and other old-age security. People don't just rely on the state pillar for their lives. [[Time warning]] Then I'd be talking about what you said. Yes, the ratio of pension ties to average wage will decrease.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u31	Madame, I'm sorry, you made a point of fact. If you sign up properly for the debate, I'll give you my word. Now, with Mr Fiedler's point of view. Mr. Ivan Gabal will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u32	About what was said here. Of course, it is necessary to determine or limit the retirement age in some reasonable way to... It's just not possible to push it forever, especially in some professions. But what I wanted to say, what the previous speakers said here, and I'm sure it'll come from some of the others who, I see, are logged on the board. I really miss... And I was one of those... We had this in the electoral programme, which I therefore follow, even though I am not assigned today, and I voted in favour of the abolition of the second pillar as well. But what the right-wing opposition is right about is that although we have canceled one thing, it is not the concept. And at this point, if it changes, or sets different rules for retirement, and I agree with that - but we are at the end of the term, and what is going on here today and every day, yesterday, today, this government simply has not prepared pension reform. This is just a partial change. At the end of the term of office, taking such crucial steps... Let's face it, what's next? How will pensions be financed? That is not what this proposal is about. We don't know what's going to happen in the future. It is only the pre-election period and these proposals, as my other previous speakers have already said, we see more and more with major interventions in the state budget, which I, as a member of the budget committee, am very displeased with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u33	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, colleagues, I've written down invitations for my Easter card, so I'm going to apply them. [[He's showing Easter wishes.]] I wish you all a nice Easter. Get to the point. As a coalition MP, I will support it, of course we have it in the coalition agreement. But I expected that the work on the pension system would be perceived by far more fundamental, broader topics, not just short-sighted one term. I'll tell you which one. In addition to the fact that for the fourth time in this parliamentary term, the abolition of the previous pillar was a gross blow to people's confidence in the stability of our pension system, and it was a mistake, so I say that, firstly, the long-term perspective of demographic development is behind the interest of some European countries in the transition to a multi-speed Europe. Analyses even put it first. The analysis of the Atlantic Commission of America presents demographic developments in Europe as a major threat to Europe's international position. By 2080 we will be representing a small percentage of the global population. In the same year 2080 there will be only two economically active per pensioner, currently five. And in 2080 there will be some 15 to 17 percent of people over 70 in Europe. This means our interest in the long term is how we extend life expectancy, and here we have managed to keep people active for a maximum of 10 years, not only because of the non-booking pension system, but also to take care of themselves in the field of social costs and so on. In this case, in my opinion, the implementation of the pension limit, which I also take personally from the Minister, is, in my view, a step in the very opposite direction. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u35	Thank you. I don't see any factual comment. And now, properly logged in. Mr Opálka will appear first, Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u36	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I spoke to pension reform at first reading, so I will forgive myself. Allow me, because at the time I did not actually have much room to justify my amendment in order to stop, on its principle, and on what is going on here in the debate. You know, demographic development-- they say it's obvious. But demographic development is not arithmetic. Demographic development is also biological limits. And it's hard to guess how the biological limits are going to show up at a certain stage, and this arithmetic assumption of ours is going to reverse. Besides, we're also facing an industrial revolution of 4.0, where a number of employees will be replaced by robots, and the House will probably be talking about whether or not the robots will pay tax and pension and sickness insurance for those who are left out of the system. So there's gonna be a lot of problems. Let me think a little bit, too. The company's current development is accompanied by a positive perception of an extended life expectancy. The cause is several. I will indicate the survival of the years that have experienced the adverse socio-economic conditions of the turn of the 19th and 20th centuries and the period of world wars and the postwar period. Of course, those who naturally left, on that average, extended their capacity. Another cause of life expectancy is the ever-increasing standard of living and the state of the environment as well as the social emphasis on a healthy lifestyle. The availability of quality health care, based on increasingly modern knowledge of science and research, the introduction of new technologies, therapeutic methods, procedures and medications, also plays a major role. That's a plus on page one. But we also have the other side. And on the other hand, in our society, we are witnessing an increasing incidence of congenital defects, civilization diseases, occupational diseases, serious injuries, these come from a new way of life, the negative effects of stress on the human organism, psychosomatic diseases and the increasing incidence of psychological diseases. We somehow forget to take that into account in our demographic outlooks. The number of disability pension applications is thus increasing, where the situation is complicated by tightening up. This means that longer life spans are not yet a guarantee of extending life expectancy in full health, including the corresponding working skills. And the situation is complicated by such things that we have not been able to agree on the renewal of categories and retirement age, as with miners and other heavy professions. If you look at the original material from the government, you have § 4a there. In that section 4a, it is actually possible for future governments and future parliaments to respond to the situation of extending life, life expectancy and, in fact, to prolong those 65 years further. And when you look at the explanatory memorandum, the explanatory memorandum on page 15 of the first paragraph states, among other things, that if § 4a is approved, the government will receive in 2018, that is, next year, new information on the assessment of the generation born in 1994, will reach the age of 25 in 2019 and its level should be the statutory retirement age limit of 68,6 years according to demographic calculations. This is 3.6 years more than the current 65 years, which means that it should leave in 2062 and three months. That's how far we see the arithmetic development. I will now get to this amendment, because in order to avoid new social problems in the future, which may accompany the insensitive automatic increase in the statutory age limit for entitlement to an old-age pension, I supplement § 4b with my amendment, which envisages an estimate in time and takes into account other important parameters, i.e. not taking into account the criterion of health survival, which could lead to the number of invalidity pensions or early pensions, but which are less favourable to citizens, and further increasing on the labour market the number of economically active seniors at a time of higher unemployment, for example at a time of economic crisis or the impact of the fourth industrial revolution, etc. [[unintelligible]] This could cause even greater unemployment and an adverse situation for citizens, but also for the state, of course. Those citizens would be much better off if they were already in post-productive age. I would therefore recommend that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs draw on the agenda of the Czech Statistical Office, which will receive from the draft law every five years, but also from the agenda of the Institute of Health Information and Statistics and the Research Institute for Labour and Social Affairs, possibly from cooperation with other organisations such as Eurostat and others. Of course, the whole regime would also assume the Ministry's own methodology, or sub-legal standards. And so, based on that decision, the government can and may not proceed to a correction. That is, when I was talking about the 1994 year, which would therefore extend the retirement age by the new legislation, the government could still assess in 2056 whether the statistics correspond to the facts and take into account the parameters in the two institutions I was talking about. So much for supporting my amendment. As regards my second amendment, i.e. we can discuss how to submit, yes, but the reality is, and the Prime Minister spoke about it, but perhaps not only he, that there is a reduction in the compensation ratio, that scissors are being opened between the average wage and the average pension. And that, of course, is still going to increase inflation in the current situation, as we see it. So we need to respond to that. Elections are every two years, so there's quite a problem when. But I would like to underline that the compensation ratio of pension expenditure to gross domestic product in the Czech Republic does not amount to 10 per cent. It's 12 abroad, usually 13 percent. So we're gonna have to think about where we're gonna get the money. One option is to pay the State for alternate periods which are recognised as pension rights, but no one pays for them. And here we have the experience of general health insurance that state insurance companies pay for health insurance companies. So that's one way to legalize and eliminate the criticism that there's a deficit in the retirement account. In my opinion, it was quite unfortunate that we went from the hedging system to the insurance system, and now we're constantly looking for revenue and expenditure, and the deficit. If it was a hedge system, we wouldn't have to look strictly for that balance sheet and deal with it in tax systems. Thank you for your attention and for your support for my amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u37	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Svoboda is now registered with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u38	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice noon. To my point, my colleague Opálek's speech, which now said in a very interesting way what will be the development of generational and age, made me talk about the issues of prolonging life. From the medical point of view, let me put one thing in all of your thoughts, which is real dynamite. Based on current knowledge, we know that the lifespan of the cell is somewhere at 120, 130 years. So it is the upper limit to which we can reach our age, and it means that this will prolong the average age of life ever further. In today's experience with transplants and cell replacements, it may mean that even this limit is not final. It may even mean that people of that age will be physically and mentally capable of being employees and earning money. These are all considerations that should be incorporated into all of our thinking by now. It is simply because the retirement limit is calculated statistically so far, but it is not based on how medicine will accelerate, how the development of the company will accelerate. And it will certainly accelerate so that the average age and ability of life at a high age will change significantly. Finally, we are a country that is an example of this, because the rate of increase in the average age of living in our country is nowhere in history, what has happened here from 1989 to today. So, please, in all these considerations about how we're going to provide a pension and how we're going to make a living for those old people, it has to be based on medical knowledge. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u39	Thank you. Before I give my word, I'll read my apologies. Today from 12.30 am to 15 pm due to the meeting, Mrs Jana Hnyková apologizes, today from 14.30 am to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr František Petrtýl apologizes, and today from 13 am to the end of the meeting for health reasons, Mr Zdeněk Soukup apologizes. Mr Vilímec will be the next to speak in the debate. One more apology. From 12.30 today, Vice-President Vondráček apologizes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. First of all, I appreciate that the Prime Minister is here during this debate. I think it needs to be picked up. On the other hand, amendments are tabled here, which significantly fall into the state budget not only for the next but for the next few years. And let me ask you, where's the finance minister? I am interested in the opinion of the Minister of Finance on the proposal of Mr Sklenák, respectively. to the Committees, or even to the proposal for amending the budgetary rules. I don't think it's easy without the finance minister, for example. We can take a position on the proposal for amending the budgetary rules. I acknowledge that the Prime Minister is here, that he is involved in the debate. I don't know whether happy or unhappy. He said that the only country that does not have a fixed retirement age is the Czech Republic. So, Prime Minister, through Mr President, I have submitted a final report on regulation, the so-called RIA, and I have considered for a while whether I should read the various pension systems here. And if I were to read it, I'm sure we don't like voting today, and that, I point out, is not my ambition or my goal. But when you were talking here, for example. about Slovakia, which is our nearest neighbouring state, so I will say something to make it clear that it is not that there is no gradual valorisation or a gradual increase in retirement. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] I quote from the final report on the impact of regulation on the Slovak system. In 2012 - I quote - a law was adopted which has introduced an automatic pension age adjustment mechanism since 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u41	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm going to arrange a little room order, especially in the left-hand side of the room, I'm going to ask my colleagues to keep their voices down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u42	The text of the legislation is quite complex, but the basis is a comparison of two five-year, immediately consecutive rolling averages of life expectancy and a calculation of the real shift in the hope of survival in the number of days. The basic parameter is life expectancy reported by the Statistical Office common to men and women. Preliminary calculations and estimates show a pension age increase of approximately 50 days each year. Conservatives expect growth of about 35 days. The retirement age - and now beware - maybe it would be good if the Prime Minister had not been distracted by an interesting debate with the Chairman of the Social Policy Committee. Attention, I quote: The pension age is not so determined, but the pension age shift is announced annually on 31 October by the corresponding calculated number of days. An indicative estimate is that the retirement age for a person born in 1970 will be 62 years plus 800 days, which is 64 years and about 2 months. A man born in 2004 should leave under this mechanism at about 70 years of age. I don't go for the system in Slovakia. I merely illustrate that we are not the only country who had the courage to cancel the fixed retirement age fixation in the last parliamentary term. I think that the fixation itself and the introduction of the re-fixation of retirement are actually rather a proxy problem, and that re-fixation in the proposed form makes it difficult, in my view, to discuss any possible revision of the retirement age. Moreover, we are dealing with a matter that will not happen until 2030. There will be several governments here, and as it will be in 2030, no one knows. So there's no certainty in this law. Anyone who pays for generally delaying the necessary changes in the pension system is evident. Those are juniors. I'm not gonna pay for that anymore, because I think I'm gonna live to see the state of that first pillar contribute to something. Our pension system, and you made it clear, we rely only on the first interim pillar plus, let's say, some voluntary insurance. We know what the deposits are there and that it doesn't provide adequate means to secure the elderly. Our system is extremely egalitarian, and if pensioners don't have any other funds saved up, in many cases it really means a significant income downturn. I'm not going to talk about the fact that the government basically did one thing, except for the parametric changes, and that's to cancel the pension reform, the other pension pillar. She didn't actually do anything else. She hasn't submitted anything else. As far as the amendments are concerned, the scenario that we know from other social laws is repeated once again, when the chairman of the Social Democracy Club is loading on the committee, virtually. at second reading, a proposal that clearly goes beyond what the coalition was willing to agree on. This is indeed a significant change, and I would therefore ask for the opinion of the Minister of Finance on this change. I think as Prime Minister - even though the Prime Minister is no longer here. He's in there. Well, I'm sorry. So he should not be calm about the fact that we do not know the position of the guardian of the Treasury, the Minister of Finance, Minister Babiš. [[12.30 hours]] During the previous parliamentary periods, there was no way that the Minister of Finance would not be present in the negotiations on pension laws when it comes to such important matters. I would really recommend a much more responsible debate in terms of valorisation here. Any such change may seem interesting at first sight, but the valorisation formula must be sustainable, not only at a time when the so-called economy is going well, and it must, from my point of view, be linked to the overall performance of the economy. Maybe the 50 percent isn't enough, maybe it would be better if it were two thirds. I'd quite like to know the Minister of Finance's position. As regards the amendment of the Act on budgetary rules, which Mr Sklenák read only at second reading, this is, of course, a classic sticker. And I can't imagine if I was in the position of the Minister of Finance, I'll never be that an MP, although the chairman of the club of a major political party, interferes so significantly with the gesture that the Ministry of Finance has. It therefore makes a significant draft law on budgetary rules. Once again, we don't know the Minister of Finance's position. I'm just reading it somewhere in the media. And it might indeed be appropriate, Prime Minister, through Mr President, if you could arrange for the Minister of Finance to participate in these matters. Because this is an essential guide for every Member, whether, for example, we should support such a change, such a regulation of budgetary rules or not. We are not really going to vote in favour of this law as a whole, which essentially does not solve anything significant in pensions and in my view, on the contrary, it only causes many problems for the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u43	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read the cancellation of the apology. Mr Grospič cancels his apology from the morning meeting, has arrived at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Skopeček will be the next to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u44	Thank you very much. I will only have a few questions through the President. I'm going to mention a few numbers here because a few numbers have already been said here today. I've been watching retirement expenses develop for some sort of time series. When we look at 2000, we spent CZK 181 billion on pensions. When we look at 2010, it's already CZK 338 billion. In 2015, it was CZK 385 billion. Without any dramatic government intervention, the trend is relentless. And it is clear that similar partial amendments will not help the trend, but will deepen it. I want to ask what we're gonna do about it. Because it is clear that the demographic trend is relentless and those figures will continue to deteriorate and pension spending will be on more and more funding from the state budget. It may be that the budget negotiations will be completely unnecessary in the future, because the mandatorial expenditure will be an overwhelming part of the budget and the Chamber of Deputies and the Minister of Finance will not have anything to redistribute. I want to ask how the government wants to address this trend. [[There's a constant heavy noise in the hall.]] I was hoping that when Potůčkův's reform came about, Potůčkův's commission, which was supposed to deal with the issue of pensions, would not only be for the alibi of abolishing the pension reform of the previous government, which you did not have to agree to, which was certainly not perfect, but I expected that in those four years the current government would at least come up with a proposal for some pension reform that we might not have to agree with. We could be just as critical to her and just as hard as you were to the pension reform carried out by the previous government. However, Potůčkův's commission did nothing but -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u45	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering your speech, but the level of noise in the room is very high. If you have a topic you want to discuss, I'll ask you to go to the lobby, I'll ask you to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u46	Thank you very much. So Potůčkův's commission served only as an alibi to abolish the previous pension reform, and did not come up with any indication of how to address the trend that I was talking about in the figures. It's awfully nice a few months before the election of one or the group to add money. I'm not questioning the fact that seniors are the group we should be adding. But you also have to say B, you have to say where we're going to take it. And not only in a year, two, three, but where we'll take it in 10 years, 20 years, 30 years. And if there are only proposals of this nature to be added in this House, or sub-divided by any system element of the pension system, we will simply come to the conclusion that the government will not have the money to pay pensions to younger generations, and without doing anything, it will actually contribute to the fact that there will be an equal pension for all, and for most of the expenditure associated with an inactive part of life, today's younger generations will simply have to save themselves. Or admit that you do not expect any reform, that you want to deepen this trend further, but then tell us where you want to take it. And I ask the Prime Minister, through Mr President, whether he will increase the mandatory wage contributions, which are one of the highest in the Czech Republic. Within the OECD and within the EU, we have some of the highest contributions from work, which, of course, is not good news for the Czech labour market. Or if you want to raise taxes, because at one point, Professor Potůček, the head of the pension commission, said, or maybe he wasn't paying very much attention, but he admitted that our property taxes are lower than the OECD average, and that this is the way in which additional pension expenditure can be obtained. So tell us fair and square that you don't want to do pension reform that you want to raise taxes, and tell us if it's property taxes, or if you're going to increase further the already high taxes that burden our work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u47	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'm recording two factual points. First off, Mr Svoboda, Mrs Pekarová will be prepared. [[Call off the microphone.]] All right, Mr. Svoboda is canceling his application. Mrs Pekarová, with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u48	Thank you for the floor. I know the debate was very long, but I still haven't heard the answer to my question, Madam Secretary has bravely kept the whole discussion quiet. And the rapporteur, although I addressed him directly, did not respond to my question at all. So I will try again and ask you, very nicely, through the President. Can we get answers to the questions that we've raised here, or do you leave it so that you don't care about other people's opinions and you don't care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u49	Thank you. I am now registering an application with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u50	Thank you for the floor. So let's try to recapitulate this term a little bit, and what this government coalition has done in the area of pensions. She set up a committee to cancel the second pillar, where she voted in cooperation with the KSČM party, and that's actually all. Then he adheres to his proven recipes, and the winged "sources are. " We are, as a constructive opposition, and the rapporteur will certainly remember this when the extraordinary increase in pensions law was first discussed, so we recognised that the valorisation formula deserves some correction, and we called on the government coalition to hold a professional debate on how to change the valorisation formula, among other things, to respond better to the development of the economy. After all, there is a completely different situation at a time when the economy has been growing for several years, and there is a completely different situation when the economy is stagnating or in decline. And that moment, even though none of us wants it, will come. These are the laws of the economy and they work despite the Czech Social Democratic Party. They pretend that the laws just don't work and that it will be as they imagine and as they promise the voters. I must say that the government coalition, and this department is in charge of the Czech Social Democratic Party, has squandered the chance to hold a debate. Maybe we wouldn't agree. I am unable to estimate at this point the results of the negotiations that have not taken place at all. But you despised it, you threw it away like that, and you didn't have any debate with us. Only now did you come up with an amendment to replace the debate. [[12.40 hours]] I am interested in such an absolute statement by the Prime Minister, and I think he does not believe it himself, because even the bill does not answer that statement, as he says: we bring certainty for the strong population years that were born in the 1970s, because we said that after 2030, which is twelve and three quarters of a year, the retirement age will not grow. If at least the bill was written like that, the sentence could be true. If the law doesn't change, it'll apply. The bill itself states that it will be reviewed once every five years. And so we can argue, five years from now, whether it's 2022, or 2023. I think it doesn't really matter, I don't want to argue, if we start counting it from the moment it came out in the Collection of Laws or the following year, it will be the first time in 2022, 2023, but five years later, i.e. In the years 2027 or 2028, it will be the second time. What's the certainty, Prime Minister? You guys know what happens in five and ten years? Then why do you call such sentences to these strong population classes? Instead of calling them as we do: if you want to have a dignified old age, do not rely only on the ongoing system, because it is not enough, and look for other tools that you or your family will help you when the period of deserved pension occurs. So why do you promise them that, Prime Minister? How can you be sure that the review after five and ten years will end the same way? Why are we actually dealing with 2016 and 2017, what happens after 2030? The answer is simple - because no one will check it in 2030 or 2031. Perhaps you will still sit here, Prime Minister, because it's a shorter time than you're already sitting here. You may still be here, but I'm sure you'll find some good wording, for example - and you've already used it once in your political career and I like it a lot and I think you're politically skilled, and now I don't mean it as a criticism, but as a commendation - "we had it in the program that resources are, but economic reality has shown that they aren't." You don't have to write a new speech, or you have 13 years to figure out a reason that it's gonna be different than what you're saying. So it's safe. We can argue here for hours and hours after 2030, but it doesn't make any sense, because I don't know if in 2029 it's going to be discussed in the future House, if anyone picks up the 2017 tapes and confronts you with these absolute statements. You didn't do anything for future retirees. Nothing at all! You guys just canceled something, I understand, you had it in the program, you implemented the program, that's all you have to admit, you had the political strength to push your program through, but instead you didn't come up with anything. However, we have exceptionally reviewed the pension twice, and at the last second reading, you are bringing about a substantial change in the valorisation formula. Nor are you able to agree on what this amendment represents as a claim, e.g. in the thirteen years that await us by 2030, if we approve the amendment. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] What will the Czech Republic and the state budget do when it does not grow economically? On the other hand, I recognise that this decision on valorisation for the following year, which takes place in autumn, is de facto based on the year and three quarters and nine months old information, which is an extremely long time in the economy, especially in turbulent periods. And we were offering a debate on whether to use some newer economic data, and the colleagues who spoke before me, both Mr Vilímec and Mr Kopeček, clearly pointed to the weaknesses in the proposal. They clearly documented that even your claim "no one else has it but us" - one thing you forgot is that it is in Slovakia, which you love to use in various other laws as an example. And if I listened well to the quote from the report, the Act on Auto Extension - it is called euphemistical adjustment of retirement age, but it is extension - was adopted in Slovakia in 2012 and it was left-wing government. You always say he's a friend, that's what you use among the Social Democrats, your friend Robert Fic. So it was not an evil right-wing government that pushed through such an outrageous thing in Slovakia as the automatic extension of the retirement age. In principle, the state has only two instruments to regulate the first pillar and the ongoing system. Two essential instruments: retirement age and valuation formula. Everything else is small, sometimes necessary, sometimes also proposals that we supported for example. in the third pillar. But the rapporteur will confirm that he had much more support in the right-wing opposition than at home in the government coalition, and it was not easy to enforce it with you. It was quite simple for us, because if we offer more opportunities for people and employers to decide freely, that's a good thing. It is a free choice, and everyone can decide according to how they perceive responsibility for their future pension. Key question, Prime Minister, once again: How can you say that you bring certainty to the class born in the 1970s, what will happen after 2030? You believe that? I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u51	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. The first is Mr Grospič and the second Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u52	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would not want to go too far into this debate, which I think would be worth considering, at last, the vote on this law. I think that the key role of helping our seniors or not will be played by Mr Opálka's amendment. And that will be the decisive moment, whether or not those scissors will be set in the direction of a more equitable assessment of retirement pensions. But I would like to respond here to my previous speaker saying that he admitted one very interesting thing. When the economic crisis began in 2008, my colleague Miroslav Kalousek said from this counter: there is nothing we can do about the economic crisis, it is our own capitalism, it is cyclical, it has to go away and no intervention by the state makes any sense. And if I may, and Mr Stanjura, through the President, is not offended, he actually said the same thing today. I think that this is a serious signal to citizens to consider that this social system cannot bring them anything good, that it is only exposed to those who control the economy, i.e. transnational monopolies, and they dictate to sovereign states as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u53	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u54	Although we have a government opinion on the basis of which we will or should vote, but it has been said several times today, and I would like to know, at this point I would really be very interested in the opinion of the Treasury guardian, Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, on what we have to vote on, because the impact will be considerable, let's say, will be large, they will be long-term. And I would really be very interested in this sort of thing, the Minister of Finance's opinion without any further comments, completely rationally, pragmatically. Don't look for anything. [[12.50 hours]] It is quite obvious that the speechless club of members of the YES does not comment on this, although the finances and the members of the Committee on Budgets - I am looking, I am looking to see if I see my fellow Members from the Committee on Budgets. I see them here behind the club yes, they're here. So I'm putting it down... In order to be able to stand up to this in some credible way, to consider everything that it means, I think Minister Andrej Babiš's opinion should be heard here. For this reason, I propose that we interrupt this point in the presence of the Minister of Finance, so that we can hear his position, the view of finance on the long-term and fundamental effects of what we are to vote on. Thank you. Which is why I'm making a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u55	Yes, I wrote it down, thank you for it. I will put it to a vote without debate. I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. First, I shall repeat the procedural proposal which I shall put to the vote. And before I do it again, I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. We will vote on the procedural proposal, and it is that this item should be interrupted in the presence of the Minister of Finance. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 348, registered 144 Members and Members, for proposal 39, against 92. This proposal was rejected. The rapporteur shall be given priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u56	I would like to ask my colleague and colleagues to vote on this point after one hour. And that's why I'd ask... [[Odds from the diaper.]] I'm sorry, I didn't know we were going till 2:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u57	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Wednesday and Friday, third readings may be put to the vote until 14 hours. I am now recording Mr Michal Kučera's factual comment. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u58	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. We will not have answers from the Minister of Finance, since you voted that you do not want to know what hole in the state budget this proposal will cause us. It is, of course, your decision, your gambling with public finances. But not only with public finances, but, of course, it's your gambling with taxes paid by working families to pay it all. The fact that you don't want to know how much it's going to cost us is obviously your business. As my fellow Member Fiedler rightly said here, who said that YES is silent. Well, yes, he doesn't. Of course, it is logical that, on the one hand, many of us and, of course, from the government coalition realize that the impact on the state budget will be great. That it will pay the working families, that it will go from their taxes. On the other hand, the members of the ANO movement are also aware that the elections are coming and that voting against would not be completely comfortable. So we're just gonna hand out the presents. So today, politics has gone down to just handing out presents. That we wouldn't want any government concepts, that we wouldn't want any long-term solutions. And just at the moment, when someone happens to respond to the fact that it's not systemic, that the impacts are not quantified, that the effects will be paid out of the taxes of working families, they will be labeled in the press as the one voting against the elderly, the one against the children, the one against the unemployed, the one against the other socially weaker. So today politics is narrowing down to just handing out presents. That's government coalition policy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u59	Thank you. Mrs Chalánková, who is now duly applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u60	I shall try, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to add to what I have said in my previous speech. Once again, I appeal both to the representatives of the government parties and to the entire Chamber of Deputies that it is desirable that we actually find agreement across the political spectrum, because the whole situation of future pensioners should mean a comprehensive solution, a conceptual solution on which we would all agree. The fact that this solution cannot be enforced or resolved on the basis of one parliamentary term is clear because the agreement and settlement of pensions and pension accounts must actually be done with a vision of at least 20 years, i.e. with this outlook. On the other hand, it doesn't mean we're not doing anything. Unfortunately, the current government missed out on the opportunity, on the one hand, of high incomes due to the growth of the economy, keeping a higher level of value added tax, abolishing the pension reform to which these revenues were to be determined or used. There's a lot going on here. I have already talked about that one-third to one-half in the valorisation mechanism, in relation to the average wage. Once again, it won't help us raise this fraction in relation to the average wage, that is, one third to one half, if the wages are low. If we make sure that our countries are not a cheap montage Europe, support science and research properly, promote high-value production, only that we can ensure that society is richer, grow a limit, and then even the valorisation mechanism will be suitable for one third. It was said here that only 80,000 savers entered into this savings, i.e. this reform. Yes, citizens were warned that if the Czech Social Democratic Party came to power, this mandatory pension system would be abolished. This pension reform was enforced as optional, i.e. voluntary. Yet this current government has abolished pension reform. So that's a few more points here, notes on what was said here. And the Prime Minister is right about the fact that the ratio between pensions, i.e. from 45 percent of the average wage, is falling to 40 percent, but it will continue to fall in the future. That is why we, too, had to proceed to the so-called solution. small pension reforms to deal with merit was an obligation under the Constitutional Court's decision. But that's where we actually saw the situation that's going to happen here over the next few years, that it's going to constantly decrease the ratio of pensions, the amount of pensions to average wages. That is why we have proceeded to pension reform in order to be able to redirect the part of the contributions required to save individual savers. If we don't do this, we'll just wait bitterly as bitter waiters to reduce wage levels in relation to average wages. [[pensions]] That's all that's gonna happen. That's just ordinary mathematical rules. [[13.00 hours]] I would also like to point out that, as a result of this rerouting of contributions, there would be some way that merit would be better addressed and, on the other hand, pensions for self-employed people could also be dealt with more fairly. Here, these people are always attacked by the fact that they do not pay enough for their pension. On the other hand, it must be said that the essence of having undignified pensions lies primarily in the incorrect calculation of these pensions as such. This is another debt that should be addressed to self-employed persons. So there's a lot of problems. And the fact that we're gonna stick our heads in the sand and we're not gonna do anything in this parliamentary term, as unfortunately happened, and I'm very sorry about this government doesn't mean that we really all shouldn't do anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u61	Thank you. At this point, I have no one enrolled in the debate. I don't see any more applications. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I would like to ask the appellant or rapporteur for the final word. It's not like that. We will now proceed to the vote on the amendments. I am asking the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to present us with the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u62	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I think that from the point of view of describing the amendments, you have made the situation very easy for me, because they have all been described here in such a way that there is no need for me to look at them again. Perhaps only one answer to Amendments A1 and A2 which mean a change in the system. Well, it wasn't in the government's proposal, so we suggested it. Period. That's my answer. That question was supposed to be directed somewhere else. I will now address the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy, which was held on 9 March 2017, which discussed all the proposals. Now I'll tell you how he dealt with them. If I may, Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u63	Introduce the procedure first. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u64	So the procedure would be like this. One. The proposals for legislative technical adaptations under Section 95 presented in the third reading were not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u65	They weren't loaded, i.e. we do not have legislative technical adaptations. Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u66	Secondly, there would be a vote on the A1 and A2 proposal, which are proposals relating to the Valorisation Mechanism. They may be voted together. But they can also be voted separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u67	I can't. Please introduce the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u68	That's how I introduce myself. That's the second point. Thirdly, my colleague Opálka, this is the point B, this is the third issue, it has been explained quite in detail here. And the fourth item on the vote is C1 and C2, which are Mr Sklenák's proposals.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u69	Together, too?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u70	Together. The last is to vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u71	Okay, thank you. You introduced the procedure. I'm asking if anyone has a proposal to change the procedure. I don't see the proposition. I'm opening the vote and asking who agrees to the draft procedure, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 349; 154 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 145, against no one. The procedure has been approved. I'm going to ask you to present the individual points and give them the positions of the guarantee committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u72	Thank you. The second vote will be points A1 and A2. Opinion recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u73	The guarantee committee. Excuse me, Madam Secretary? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 350, 155 Members and Members signed in, in favour of proposal 118, against 1. This proposal was adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u74	The next vote is on point B. Recommendant.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u75	Opinion of the Committee recommending it. Madam Secretary? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 351, registered 155 Members and Members, for proposal 127, against no one. This proposal has also been agreed with. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u76	The last vote is C1 and C2. The Committee has not delivered an opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u77	Opinion, Madam Secretary? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 352, 155 Members and Members, for proposal 116, against 26. This proposal has been approved. If I have my remarks right, we have gone over all the amendments and now we should vote on the proposal as a whole. [[The rapporteur agrees.]] So I will read the motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to House press 912, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with serial number 353; 156 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 121, against 17. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I end the third reading of this bill. Thank you. I am interrupting the meeting until 14.30 pm and request the members of the Organizing Committee to meet in five minutes for the meeting of the Organising Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-004-238.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the afternoon block of negotiations. To start with, I'll read an apology. Today, from 17.45 am to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mr Martin Komárek apologizes. I'm opening the first point of today's meeting, and that's
