ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-016-045.u1	45. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratify the amendment of the Protocol on persistent organic pollutants, the Protocol on the restriction of acidification, eutrophication and ground-floor ozone and the Protocol on heavy metals to the Convention on Long-Term Air Pollution Crossing the Borders of States/Household Printing 734/ - second reading This proposal was dealt with on 1 December 2016. The debate has been interrupted. I ask the Minister to take the floor and ask the rapporteur Václav Zemk to take his place.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-016-045.u2	I thank the President for saying this for me, so I don't have to worry about it again. Do you remember surely, or maybe, that I should not be so optimistic again, the debate within the interrupted second reading, where President Stanjura tried me, and it is a good thing that he keeps checking whether ministers understand the concepts that are here, what is acidification and eutrophication, and after all, we stayed with the pollutants. I wouldn't want to delay, I just want to remind you that this concerns three protocols in particular. As has already been said here, the protocol on persistent organic pollutants, which, just to remind you, are substances of a type of polychlorinated PCBs, dioxins, furans and other toxic substances. In addition, the protocol on the restriction of acidification, or acidification, eutrophication, or actually the carrying or enrichment of water with nutrients, especially nitrogenous substances, and ground ozone, and so-called. heavy metal protocol. For all three protocols, there is actually some simplification of the procedures for adopting amendments to the Annexes. What is important, however, the changes concern above all and are mainly targeted at the countries of Eastern Europe, the Caucasus and Central Asia, from whose territory there is a significant long-distance transmission of pollutants in the territory of other European countries, because the vast majority of European states, I dare say, all of them, including the Czech Republic, have already introduced those changes within EU legislation, i.e. their national legislation. [[12.40 hours]] So these changes to the protocols concerned are already being projected and only minor changes in Decree 415/2010 Coll. are coming in the Czech Republic, which addresses the permitted levels of pollution and implements the relevant provisions of the Act on Air Protection. The Czech Republic is currently already fulfilling the national emission ceilings applicable to 2020. Therefore, I would ask you once again to support these protocols, which will support the efforts of the international community to impose on a global scale stricter requirements for limiting and reducing these harmful substances, which in most cases are very toxic and mutagenic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-016-045.u3	Thank you. We have interrupted this point in the debate. We are therefore moving in the debate. The rapporteur introduced us to the resolutions in the previous one. I'm asking the same question. Is he interested in speaking on this matter? So please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-016-045.u4	Thank you for the floor. Maybe I'll just be brief. It's kind of hard to follow up on a debate that started here about six months ago. The debate was rather extensive, rich. I'm grateful for her. However, at this point, I would perhaps just recall that two committees, the Committee on the Environment and the Committee on Foreign Affairs, which was a guarantee committee, and both of these committees recommended to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies to agree to ratify this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-016-045.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-016-045.u6	It was December 1st of last year. But I asked the questions, and the Minister didn't even answer today. For example, I asked if we were in favour of limiting acidification or not. It says in the tape screen: entertainment in the hall - parentheses. We must have been amused, huh? I asked if the impacts on the Czech industry were being investigated, and that is a serious question. Yes or no. Or whether it may have any impact on the Czech industry. Of course, I'm not able to find out. And then I asked if we could limit the other signatories if we didn't ratify it. Because it's always important. Whether our signature is tied to some kind of obligation and restricting the others or not. At least the two questions. I'm not gonna say it again. We've already had our fun on other points today, so we don't have to have fun on this one. But I already said that it is clear how formally we are discussing these proposals. I had this dispute with the rapporteur who trained me. It was environmental. I was quoting his first-reading news report at the time, where there was absolutely nothing but a change in addition to the protocols, if I'm not mistaken. And how is that important? What's important is that we change the additions. I don't want to repeat the debate. But at least the two questions, whether by not ratifying it - because I am not prepared to vote in favour - whether we will limit the others, or whether we would cause any possible damage to the Czech Republic and whether this contract can have any impact, whether negative or positive, on the Czech industry. I really need a very brief answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-016-045.u7	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for any final words. The Minister is interested in the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-016-045.u8	Thank you. I will only try very, very briefly to respond to President Stanjur. It is so that the impact on the Czech economy or Czech businesses should not really be any, because we actually have requirements that result from these protocols already captured in our national legislation. Even approved by the amendments and are part of both EU legislation and even in some cases, the Czech Republic has historically more stringent requirements than the European Union has required of us. So this isn't gonna be a restriction for us. And from the point of view of ratification, it's always the case with those contracts, or with those protocols, that, of course, priority is being ratified by those members who, even today, are capable of simply fulfilling them to declare, let's say, their determination to demand them from the other states. Because the thing is, tonight, I can tell you how it's gonna go with the individual protocols. So the number of Contracting Parties, for example, has been 33 since the heavy metal protocol, and of which the Member States have already ratified 21. This means that other states, which are above all those countries of Eastern Europe, possibly. Central Asian countries, so according to the information my colleagues have given me, sometimes they just wait to ratify European states to join me. So it's more of a gesture that even if we fill it out today, so that it's not absolutely crucial to us, so by ratifying it, we're actually putting some pressure on the other countries that haven't ratified it yet, but for various reasons they want to or are forced to approach it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-13-ps2013-059-07-016-045.u9	Thank you, Minister. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the proposed resolutions. We will vote on the resolution of the Foreign Committee according to House Press 734/2. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking... Sorry. I'm done with the vote. I declare them misguided. I'm registering an application for a check-out that I'm going to comply with. I'd like you to rejoin your I.D. cards. [[He's waiting for a while.]] If it was a good idea... [[With a smile.]] Now, it looks like we're going to increase the number of votes... Excellent. I repeat, we are voting on the foreign committee resolution on this point, House press 734/2. Initiating vote. I'm asking who he is. Who's against it? This is vote number 238, registered 96, for 85, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved, and I conclude this point. Opening point
