ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and I welcome you all. I called the meeting pursuant to § 51 para. 4 of our Rules of Procedure at the request of 41 Members. The invitation was distributed to you through the MPs on Friday, May 5th. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I'm voting with card number 71. We would now proceed to the designation of the verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we designate Mrs Gabriela Pecková and Mrs Marta Semelová. I'll ask if anyone else has a suggestion. If you don't, we'll vote. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the proposal for the verifier of this meeting. Who's against it? It's vote number one. 104 Members are registered, for 95, against 1. This proposal was adopted. Mr Černoch votes with card number 72. So I am of the opinion that we have designated the verifier of this meeting, Mrs Gabriela Pecková and Mrs Marta Semelová. I would like to inform you that, before the opening of the meeting, the Members asked to apologise for their absence at the sitting of the following Members: Mr Adam Petr - personal reasons, Mr Adam Vojtěch - medical Šrámek, Mr Antonín - foreign trip, Mr Babiš Miloš - foreign trip, Mr Běhounek - working Váhalová, Mrs Berdychová - working grounds, Mrs Bohdalová - foreign trip, Mrs Golasowská without reason, Mr Nykl - medical reasons, Mr Opálka - personal reasons, Mr Heger - personal reasons, Mr Junek - personal reasons, Mrs KaňkovskKaňkovský - personal reasons, Mr Kott - foreign travel, Mrs Matušovská - personal reasons, Mr Nykl - medical Schwarzenberg, Mr Opálka - medical Valenta, Mr Pavera - personal reasons, Mrs Pěnčíková - foreign travel, Mr Petrů - medical reasons, Mr Pilný - working Zemánek, Mr Plzák - working path, Member - medical Velebný, Mrs Putnová - medical reasons, Mrs Valenček - foreign Zelienková. From the members of the government, Minister Stropnickýý apologizes from 4:30 for work reasons. And the Minister of Industry apologizes for the whole day for urgent work reasons. So many apologies. And now we would like to set up the 58th meeting, whose proposal is made on the invitation. I would like to remind you that pursuant to § 54 para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure Act shall be decided by the House only on the agenda referred to in the application. It is therefore not possible to propose an amendment or addition to the programme and it is also not possible to extend the approved programme. Before we vote, I have a request with priority from President Fiala. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, let me briefly introduce you to the reasons which led us to the motion for an extraordinary meeting. At the same time, I would like to get to the content of the name of this extraordinary meeting, namely the abuse of power by the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš to independent institutions of democratic society. Mr. Vice Prime Minister and Finance Minister Andrej Babiš recently complained in newspaper ads that he was silenced, that he couldn't talk about important cases. That is, of course, nonsense. But the problem is elsewhere. The problem is that Andrej Babiš himself does not explain what he should explain and, on the contrary, says things that he should not say as a top politician and should not do. On the first, explaining his business activities and financial transactions, the Chamber of Deputies had to invite him to do so. He finally gave his opinion within the required time limit, but he did not explain everything in a satisfactory manner. And now we have a second problem. The problem is very serious. In recent days there have been recordings concerning Andrej Babiš, which concern how and what he spoke to the reporters of the Mladá fronta today. I must say that we do not support the illegal publication of wiretaps, currently recorded recordings or other invasions into privacy, and we insist that these items be examined. At the same time, however, we cannot ignore the serious content of the recordings that began to circulate in public space. Already what has been published is suspected that a key member of the government has influenced the media, among other things. That he was using this media he owns to attack his political opponents. That he had access to information about ongoing police investigations. And instead of immediately telling this fact to the inspection authorities, he co-organized their abuse in political warfare. To meet here today, ladies and gentlemen, the initial suspicion that the Finance Minister wasn't telling the public the truth is that he abused and influenced his media, that he used this media for political struggle would be enough. But new suspicions regarding the abuse of police investigation or the misuse of information from police investigation are an even more serious reason, and I underline the reasons why we have called or why we have asked to convene this extraordinary meeting. As members of the Parliament of the democratic country, we need to take a clear position on these matters. Turns out Andrej Babiš is lying. That despite his promises to the public, he influenced the media. That he probably got access to the so-called living police files. That he was violating the basic rules of democracy's functioning. That he threatened trust in the state and its institutions. Members, as representatives of the people of this country, cannot stand idly by if there is suspicion of such a major abuse of political power by such a powerful politician as the Vice Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance and the head of one of the parties to the government coalition. That is why we have decided to call this meeting. We are pleased that our proposals have been supported by colleagues from TOP 09, and I firmly believe that the agenda for this meeting will be supported by Members from other political parties. These suspicions need to be discussed on parliamentary ground. We all need to think together about what needs to be done to protect legality and constitutionality. To call on the relevant state institutions to investigate the matter. I'm also referring to the abuse of the police investigation, the possible abuse of the police investigation to political ends. We need to speak here together to defend the democratic principles and values on which our Republic stands. We need to give a clear position as the Chamber of Deputies to the Vice Prime Minister, the Government, the President of the Republic, but also to the public. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to support the agenda for this meeting so that we can deal with the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u3	Thank you. I ask Prime Minister Kučera and the Minister of Finance to speak with priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u4	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the agenda of this meeting for the Club of Members of the TOP 09, namely the abuse of power by the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, towards independent institutions in democratic society. The very title of the agenda of today's meeting is literally chilling. It is precisely the abuse of power that Andrej Babiš has brought our country into crisis. And it must be said that the current crisis is not only a crisis in this government coalition, but it is, above all, a crisis in democracy, a crisis that we have not seen since the fall of the Communist regime. The morals are bent, the laws are bent here, even the Constitution itself is bent here. What President Václav Havel has advocated in our country, namely the fight for human rights and, above all, for higher social morality, and thus what the Czech Republic has secured respect for itself throughout the democratic world, is now trampled on by current President Zeman and Minister Andrej Babiš. The President of the Republic is a nicer visit to Communist China than to ensure political stability in his own country and to the Minister of Finance to cover his tax fraud against the prosperity of the entire society, not to mention some private media in which the views of one political entity are presented in order to harm his political competitors, although it is denied by their owner. I know it seems like a cliché, but it's no less than a fight of good and evil, a fight of democracy and oligarchy. It is clear to all today that Miloš Zeman and Andrej Babiš are one. They are indispensable comrades from the period of nomenclature socialism, from socialist prognostic institutes and foreign trade businesses. Whoever thought these people had disappeared irretrievably in the past was wrong. For TOP 09 I can say that we are consistent in our position, whether it be the work of President Zeman, so to the work of Andrej Babiš in the Government of the Czech Republic, from the very beginning. It should be recalled that Andrej Babiš did not elect the people to the seat of the Minister of Finance, but was appointed there after the agreement of the Social Democrats and People's Party, even though from the very beginning Andrej Babiš was in a clear conflict of interest and it was only a matter of time before the government of the ANO movement, the ČSSD and the People's Party reached a crisis that is now a crisis not only a government but also a crisis of society-wide and a crisis of morality. It is not only Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement but also the CSSD and the People's Party who are responsible for this. Let me, however, give this speech a little bit more context and look around the surrounding European countries, that is, the countries of old Europe, which we had together with President Havel after 1989 as a model of democracy. I will mention here Karel-Theodor zu Guttenberg, who resigned in March 2011 as German Defense Minister for writing part of his thesis. I will remind Mr Christian Wulff, the German President, who resigned in February 2012 because of the confusion about the house loan and the pressure on Bild's diary not to disclose this sensitive information. I will mention here Mr Hans Peter Fridrich, former German Minister of Agriculture, who resigned in February 2014 in connection with the misuse of his position and access to information when he, as Minister of the Interior, communicated information concerning the investigation of the opposition Member under the SPD. And, of course, I must also mention Mr José Manuel Soria, the Spanish Minister of Industry, who resigned in April 2016 because of ownership shares in companies based in tax havens. Finally, I must not forget Brun Le Roux, the French Interior Minister, who resigned in March 2017 because he suspected that he had employed his daughters as parliamentary assistants during the summer holidays. And then there's another country. In that country, it is possible that a person who was supposedly a co-worker of the StB may be part of the government and finance minister and cannot obtain a demonstration certificate; he is in a permanent conflict of interest, for example, when approving support for biofuels or subsidising support for agriculture; has placed persons in the public authorities who are in conflict of interest and cover his business; he is being investigated for a subsidy fraud, which he has probably committed in the construction of his recreation complex; who has failed to explain where he has obtained financing for the purchase of koruna bonds; which, by buying koruna bonds, seems to have been subject to tax reductions; which apparently affects its media and orders the media destruction of its political opponents; And who apparently looks into live police files and collects classified facts, which apparently even commits criminal activity. And, of course, at the very end - it affects the appointment of high-ranking persons. A politician who is unwilling to resign and adheres to his post at the cost of international disgrace and trample on morality. I'm sure you know what country I'm talking about. No, it's not a post-Soviet satellite from Central Asia. Unfortunately, this country is the Czech Republic, colleagues and esteemed colleagues. It's been more than a year since we last met here only because of Andrej Babiš. It was more than a year ago when Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka had a clear opportunity to call off the Minister of Finance. However, he did not use this option. What are the consequences? Now we're facing even bigger cases. Not only do tax cuts cause the purchase of koruna bonds, but mainly the execution of political competitors' orders in their own media or the sighting of live police files. First, I must say that I consider it at least rude, as the Minister expresses himself on the so far published recordings to the address of his coalition partners. However, I see this problem on a human level, where the finance minister merely shows how he despises people around him and is sure that everything can be bought is just a price. On a purely moral level, I perceive the misuse of information to damage competitors at a time - I quote - the Socan Convention and before the parliamentary elections. And now I'm passing by what word he refers to his employees. I really can't reproduce that here. However, I consider it essential that the information resulting from other published recordings can most likely be described as a criminal offence. First, a crime not interfering with a crime, i.e. that although the persons involved had reasonable grounds for suspecting an offence, they did not report it to the law enforcement authorities or commit a criminal offence in preparation for the planning of blackmailing the persons concerned. Absolutely shocking is the information that the Minister of Finance had at his disposal so-called. A live file from the investigation, and his relationships with all well-known Colonel Robert Šlachta. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that there is only one way out of this situation. The starting point is the appeal of the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš from the Government of the Czech Republic and the departure - and the departure of Andrej Babiš from public life, as is common in Western European democracies. That is why TOP 09 supports the last step of Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, who has already delivered to the President a motion for the appeal of Andrej Babiš, and we call on the President of the Republic of Miloš Zeman to take urgent action and recall the Minister of Finance according to the practice, practice and basic source of Czech law, i.e. the Constitution of the Czech Republic. At the same time, we demand that no one who has ties to Agrofert, the ANO movement or Andrej Babiš person be appointed to the Ministry of Finance. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that in the resolution we will adopt the topics of my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u5	Thank you. I beg the Minister of Finance, after him, the chairman of the club YES. He's downloading his application. In that case, President Kováčik will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u6	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen and, above all, citizens. I came here mainly to try to explain to people what's really going on in our country. [[13.20 hours]] Yes, today it will be another attempt to execute Babiš live. It's the second time such an execution here has been organized by traditional political parties. And there's another megacampaign against me. Just out of the number of extraordinary meetings or points relating to my person, it is clear that you ladies and gentlemen, and perhaps not all of them, bother you. I'm a pain in the ass. The aim of this campaign is to remove Babiš from politics, as the chairman of the TOP 09 club has just said. Since I joined politics, there have been campaigns. We had a St.B., a stork nest, subsidies, biofuels. Not even those bonds that were issued, and maybe even for their friends, no one understood. So that's a great job, but it didn't work. None of it got caught. Well, what just happened? Well, wiretaps. From-by-bye-bye. Manipulated! Even the website that broadcasts it. We're going to the editing room. Let's go edit it. Manipulated wiretaps. Unlawful. Someone's committing a crime on government members, and you're enjoying it. You just don't know that someday it might happen to you, that you're gonna have a bug in the kitchen or somewhere that someone's gonna be following you, bugging you that they're gonna put a provocateur on you. So that's a terrible coincidence, just now that the Prime Minister has proposed my appeal for incomprehensible reasons, there have been wiretaps, supposedly a year ago. Is that a coincidence? I don't think so. I've been hearing for a long time that you want to take me into custody, accuse and lock me up, just as Chairman TOP 09 has just said, so I can leave politics so I don't even run. I thought that Kubice's report would appear somewhere in September, the provocations that are about to be organized. And no, it's already arrived. So close Babiš. He's not supposed to be in politics. That's the target. Well, then, if they don't lock me up, but I guess they do, 'cause that's a good way to organize it, then maybe they'll shoot me. I don't know. Of course, the business that some people are doing here is a big deal. He wants me out of politics. It's horrible, of course, because you're not gonna do business with me. Not even in gambling, when I proposed a tax increase, everyone but our movement was against it. The Prime Minister also tried to do so when he asked me why I criticize the huge tunnel in the air rescue service prepared by Minister Němeček. He told me to blow off the criticism, we have a Kapsch. But you and Kapsch did the contract, our coalition partners. And when Mr. Took out that Kapsch, he negotiated a contract of 500 million a year cheaper. So I don't do business. And I mind. So I'm standing here right now, and I'm supposed to explain something. But I'd like to explain to people what's really going on here, what happened. This is today's battle for the future of this country. [[Resurrection and applause from both sides of the hall.]] We were a very successful government. We could have gone into history as the most successful government since the revolution. A government that ended up second in public budgets in Europe. Yeah, thanks to me, 'cause I run the financials like the family company's finances. Others in Europe behind Luxembourg. I've reduced my debt by 70 billion. We had a surplus. That new power pact, Kalousek - Sobotka, he's slashed $1 070 billion in debt. I'm down 70. We collected taxes, raised pensions, increased salaries for people. I've been tasked with getting money to raise salaries in the security forces since 1. 7. teachers etc. And I've been preparing the budget. We're having a total political crisis here today. And who caused it? Well, unfortunately - unfortunately, and I don't understand - the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister has proposed my appeal. And I'm asking - why? Why should I be called off? President Fiala was here, and he said I didn't answer the questions. But I answered everything. I did your job. He also said that - I don't know what you said, either, through Mr President. I gave you a very technical text, where I explained everything, on April 28th, I had a deadline on April 30th. Then what's missing, why didn't you write it to me? Why didn't the Prime Minister wait for my statement? Why has he already published on the 27th of April a compilation of lying things from the former editors of Mafra, whom I supposedly influence, which is nonsense? And he never sent me those 22 questions. It was published on the ČSSD website. Nobody wrote me to answer that. But I answered that. I answered it this Sunday because I expected it to be a pretext again that I didn't do something wrong. But I've done everything. And I find it absolutely scandalous when someone says that I'm doing some iniquities. About what? Why does the chairman of the TOP 09 say I'm under investigation? Where am I being investigated? Do you know anything about this? Yes, I went to the police, I was investigated for an hour. And you know what for? For corrupt trash, Czech TV reporters. And for an hour, the investigator wasn't able to tell me my attorney in my position. And what are we working on? Well, we're working on closing up Babiš. You need to take him into custody. teďka, apparently, we're working on making the wiretap that was illegal legal. Well, I don't know if a judge will allow it. So I fundamentally refuse to resign because there's no reason. Tell me one thing I, as a politician, did here as the finance minister, when I behave with the care of a proper economy and cost almost nothing to taxpayers. What did I do? Somebody tell me to put something on the paper I didn't answer. The more answers, the more questions. So I was losing. I say - if I shoot myself and you're all happy, at the funeral of the power pact Kalousek - Sobotka will say: We protest, Babiš must explain why he shot himself. That's it. Anybody ask me how I bought Agrofert? Those advisors from the Office of the Government who don't understand what business is? Well, how much did Agrofert have in 1995 when the Mečiarovec fired us? And who kicked me out of work? Well, Boris Vostrý. Boris Vostrý from Harvard. [[13.30 hours]] Do you remember the coupon, President Fialo, through the President? You remember, don't you? Boris Vostrý kicked me out of work. And Agrofert came up with me, and he had a fortune of a million. And up to four. And the fact that you've read some senseless estimates, you can study how much Warren Buffett bought the first shares and what they're worth today. How can I explain this to you if you don't understand? I explained everything, everything. Let someone show me what I didn't answer. I will return to our government. Absolutely incomprehensible situation. Destroyed reputation. We could've gone into history, we could've ruled after the election when we were successful. But why? Why did it turn out like that? Well, that's easy. Because the ČSSD has low preferences, and the Prime Minister needed something to figure out, something to show. Show that he doesn't respect the coalition contract. I don't understand. In the past, when the Prime Minister referred to the coalition agreement and said I couldn't call off the ministers, I had to ask the presidents of the coalition board, so today we asked if the coalition agreement worked. And actually, they said they did. But what was the demise? Why was the resignation of all ministers without anyone knowing? That's a violation of the coalition agreement. So the coalition contract's on? And a motion for an appeal. My appeal, which is unwarranted? That's also a violation of the coalition agreement. I understand the Constitution is more than a coalition contract, but why did we sign it? [[Laughter on the right.]] Everyone signed it. All coalition MPs. It's not a good time. It's not a good time. I'm so sorry. People are confused, they don't understand what's going on, why someone's ruining the work of all ministers. I must laugh when he says something about the abuse of political power. But what political power? Tell me what I did, where I abused what I did. Are you talking about the nonsense on the sound recordings? I think everyone knows how to edit it, the videos. There's no record of me giving orders to the media. It's not there. And you know it. But of course, everyone's fine with it, so he's already saying there's a living file. I don't know anything. I've never seen a living file in my life. He wasn't even holding a hand. What about the person who - yes, I made a huge mistake that I even talked to the person who came to me and told me what everything was going on for me, that I was even a KGB agent. Not only StB, but also KGB! That there's some kind of conspiracy going on, another report on how it's going to affect some StB trial, etc. I fundamentally refuse to influence anything. And tell me what political power I'm using. I don't have any political power at all. What's that? There are six of us in the government. [[Noise in the hall.]] Tell me which institution I influenced from the office of Finance Minister. [[Answers from the O.R.]] Tell me one case! I am not, as in the past some minister abused FAÚ etc. I think you've got the wrong idea. It's obvious the tapes are edited. That my voice is there and that can't be adjusted? Of course you can. It's obvious it's only for my dehonestity. I filed a criminal complaint and asked why you wouldn't leave it to the police, the investigation of the case. No? So let's remember when Mr. Sobotka's private e-mails were published. Today he says it's stolen e-mails. And what's the difference between the e-mails and the staged recordings? What difference does it make? Where it was clearly seen from the recordings, and at that time everyone said it was unethical, as ČSSD influenced the pre-election polls of public opinion, the selection of the director of the Czech Radio, how he uses his Party Literature daily Referendum. That's where it was clear. How other media take over, how they put their people in power structures. But there's another meter on Babiš. Everyone's doing it now. And that's where it was clear. But why didn't it work out then? Why? Who cared? That there is an e-mail where a Mr. Přikryl says: according to our interview, I did the work in the case of OKD, as we talked about them. The unsubstantiated letter from the European Commission to the Minister of Foreign Affairs of 2011 is crucial for future developments in the expected judicial proceedings. He says I had a chance to look into the file. Now what? Who's that? Did I get a chance to look at the file? Me? I've never looked into a file. Please, I'd like some colleagues, unfortunately, from the government, to clean up their own doorstep. If anyone's saying today that I'm resigning because Secretary Valachová resigned - she didn't resign until yesterday afternoon, then I think they've arranged it. And you have information that there was a suspicion of corruption in the Treasury? That the police were interfering? What's it about? Why is anyone talking about this? What's the connection? You're testing me from my 1995 business. That's 22 years. So I really don't know. I mean, I know it's a super timed, perfectly organized campaign. Yes, the campaign. The agency that, of course, organizes everything on me. We saw media independence at Václav Moravec on Sunday. Neither of them asked about corruption at the Ministry of Education, where the advisor was a close friend of Prime Minister Mr. Březina, convicted in the past. Not once. What was he talking about? About Kapschi. About Kapschi. And what about the ANO movement with Kapsch? We inherited it. Manipulatively, he was talking about debt. The debt has increased. Yes. We borrowed more in the first quarter because we paid back 11. The 4th great Kalouskův bond. His debt is 90 billion, ten-year-old, four percent. For that, dear citizens, we have paid 36 billion. interest! For my first quarter, we borrowed interest-free de facto. And we can go back to the time when Mr Kalousek says what I am influencing. So we can go back to history by 10. 3. 2011 when he calls: I swear on the kids, I don't have a secret tape. How he actually called the media. Kalousek shocked the editors. I have you on a secret video, he says. Kalousek threatened the editors. He said he was just fouling up. Miroslav Kalousek's statement on the secret video. And you had a meeting that night? Or are you just doing a meeting at Babiš that didn't say anything? And here's the interview. I swear on my kids, there's no record. Really. You're saying I'm lying? No. You're lying. I'm not lying. I've never ordered an article. None. And by the way, nothing came out of the crap that the editor said in there. Nothing has been published. So here he says about how he was organized and how he threatened. Did you hear me threaten anyone? [[Laughter, applause on the left.]] [[13.40 hours]] Here's another one, 12. 7. 2012. Kalousek reportedly threatened Police President Lessy over the CASA. He says it's a lie. Minister of Finance Miroslav Kalousek telephoned to investigate the purchase of transport aircraft by CASA to police President Petr Lessy. Supposedly he blamed him for the police procedure and intimidated him. Can you imagine me making a phone call? No. I tried it once when I owned the paper, and I was uploaded right away. So no. I didn't to anybody. So isn't that influence? Isn't this abuse of political power? So tell me when I took advantage of political power. Then here we are, Mr. Kalousek threatened the investigator. The Minister denies it. He threatened an investigator in charge of his party colleague Vlasta Parkanová's case. And he told him he quit the police force. So what's that? That's not abuse of political power? Have you ever heard of me threatening anyone? That I took advantage of my position as Minister of Finance or Deputy Prime Minister? Never! Never. So please, I'd really like you to stop saying things about me that aren't true. They're not true. And I fundamentally refuse to do so. I fundamentally refuse to do so. So I don't understand that the government that ruled for three and a half years has a prime minister who will destroy her work. The Prime Minister says I have some kind of power pact with President Zeman. What's that? What power pact? After all, Mr. President had a different opinion than I did for police reform when the Home Secretary wiped out the Schlacht unit. Different opinion. So there's no power pact. Now Mr. Kalousek's power pact is with the Prime Minister to remove Babiš. And of course we can go back to Lex Babiš etc. And I don't know why it is. Why? Is this about Počerady, is this about CEZ, is it about the OKD trial or is it about the business of people tunneling the Škoda Transportation? Or... why am I being tested from my business? I answered everything. No? Why? I repeat, you have absolutely nothing on me as a politician! And I could ask the Prime Minister why he privatized directly OKD, Skoda Holding, why he sent 11.5 billion. environmental burdens, money. Why did we lose the arbitration, why did he cut the debts for 400 billion? and also why, since 1996, did we cheat on the first race to the House when his organization says that he forged applications and signatures of members on the agendas of the annual membership meeting? I didn't ask why either. I don't get it. I don't understand why I'm the one who's always supposed to answer. And I repeat, I have a clean political career. So I'm the one that you guys prepared this campaign, and I'm terribly sorry that the government was damaged, that the citizens feel so bad about it. And I can say that I answered everything, there's no reason for me to resign, and I'm not resigning. You can kill me, but I won't resign! And I'm not leaving politics! I'm not gonna make you so happy. I'm gonna fight this corrupt hydera my whole life. All my life. And I can promise people that! [[Let's hear it from the YES benches.]] Someone's talking about the media. Well, have you forgotten how the editors left in Economy after Jančura's interview was corrected? Did this ever happen in Mafra? Someone editing a conversation and giving away some names? Well, it never happened! So I fundamentally reject it! I don't know about taking advantage of my political power. What kind of political power do I have? I don't know! I don't have one! I've never abused her. I'm not like you. So I want you to stop lying. And put something on the table. Bonds? That I'm being investigated? Financial Administration controls bonds issued by 525 companies and 75 thousand. People. He's a regular checker. There were attacks on the Chief of Financial Administration. I think you'd like to do your homework. I guess that's the point, I don't know. So I refuse. There is no thing for which I should resign. And, of course, we are acting within the coalition. Let's see what happens. I understand the Constitution is above the coalition agreement. But I asked the Prime Minister if he recognized the coalition contract or didn't. He only recognizes her when it suits him. So, of course, I expect to hear here again what a danger I am to democracy. Then tell me what I've done undemocratic! Our movement? Yes, it's democratic. That's proof that I am, for example, how we vote for candidates. I am a threat to your corrupt system, which you have built here in 26 years and which I will continue to fight. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u7	I ask President Kováčik to prepare the Minister of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, Madam and gentlemen, I, too, will fight the corruption hysteria of what I will be able to do. For example, the proposal for a law on property returns, which we communists will carry here over and over again, and we will come up with everyone who goes into politics or another public office to lay down their accounts, to show their accounts and also to leave. Perhaps, at that time, when it was presented here at the beginning of this parliamentary term by us, we would have given more thought to advance, and yet we did not have to sit here today. But what I'm telling you is, it's before the election and it's not a matter of substance, but it's a election campaign. I heard - and it was very serious - what the previous speakers said. Whether they were the plaintiffs of the program, a bit of a bumpy title, but it still shows what it is, or whether it was Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš. I was particularly interested in the other important announcements of the claim about the most successful government. And so, in line with what we said here in January, I ask what this so-called. The most successful government has been working for citizens for many months? In addition to arguing with one another about who is the bigger robber, about who is watching, about who is to be called off or who is to submit or not to resign. What has happened since the first time we asked here in January to end this government and be replaced by a new handing out of cards at that time in possible early elections? What laws have been passed, important to citizens? Social, whether it be about executions, whether it be about what really burns and interests citizens. I feel like there wasn't much going on. However, today and daily we learn about various accusations, attacks, cases, mutual reproaches, simply why we communists certainly did not go into politics, whether municipal or supreme. [[13.50 hours]] I just want to remind you that politics is a service. And I also want to remind you, or rather ask - are we still parliamentary democracies? Or are we approaching some other form of government, where Parliament does not control the government, but vice versa, where an individual adopts laws, takes credit for it or for it? I just want to know whether we will continue to apply Parliament's supervisory role to the government from the Constitution or whether we will be defensive as a parliament. If we hide, we keep quiet, we'll say, "it's gonna turn out, these new elections are gonna happen somehow, we're gonna leave it to the citizens again," and until then, we're gonna be passive. That's what it looked like. It's been like that for a long time. Personally, I want to see for myself, and along with me and the KSČM, what it will look like now. We want to know from both the Prime Minister and the Vice Prime Minister whether the current governance - does not rule, whether the current government coalition waged a hard election campaign will continue, or whether the current or current government formation is able to bring something for the public, for citizens, for companies, for municipalities, for cities, for the international prestige of the Czech Republic and for its internal political satisfaction that citizens will think after all - we have chosen correctly. This is why the KSČM MP after a long discussion, a very comprehensive discussion, decided to support the agenda. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u9	Thank you. I beg the Secretary of State and after him, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u10	Good noon - afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I'll confess. As you know, I've talked about my father here more than once who's dead. And he had one of those that he wasn't able to remember any jokes. I mean, he only remembered one joke. The one joke he remembered, of course, I have to remember my whole life because he was one. It's almost like the family heirloom, the joke, because it was almost an obligation to remember it when it was the only joke my father knew and was able to tell in society. I'm about the same way. I also basically only remember the one joke my father taught me. And what's the worst part, ladies and gentlemen, is that the joke isn't much. If I tell you, you're all gonna say, well, family heirloom, that's really not enough. If that's what you're saving, it's God's pleasure... Still, I'd like to tell you the joke, and I'm sorry it's so trivial. The joke is that a man gets on a tram who's very drunk. . [[A voice from the diaper: Drunk]] I didn't mean to say that. And that gentleman, of course, he's fucking himself in that tram, so he leans over one sitting, and unfortunately he's gonna spill his entire stomach contents into his lap. And the person who gets it like that, of course, gets madly angry and screams, "Lord, look, for God's sake, look, what have you done?! You're a pig! Or worse! And the guy says to him, "I'm a pig?" Look at you guys! - And I confess to you that this is about the situation in which I feel after Mr. Andrej Babiš's speech. [[A round of applause for Members of Social Democracy, TOP 09 and ODS.]] I've been looking at his anger for a long time with such amazement. I admit I saw him for the first time on that TV show Interview, where I was impressed by the fact that he didn't answer the only question he got from the editor. Although Mr Babiš says I have been in politics too long, I tell you that I have never dared to ignore what journalists are asking me and to show them that I don't give a damn about their questions. So I'm intrigued. And actually, this strategy goes on. No matter what we ask Mr. Babiš, whether we ask ten or twenty-two questions, whatever we ask him, we'll virtually never know what we're asking! I'm just saying this for the record, so we're all here to make a statement. We don't get answers to any questions! It's obvious! You all agree. I don't know if it's ever gonna change, but it's good for us to tell each other. We don't get answers to Mr. Babiš's questions. He himself asked us some questions. [[Answers to be said]] And I'm gonna answer them because I'm used to it, so now I'm gonna try. I followed his questions, and I'll answer them. But before I start answering those questions, I'd like to tell you - I know I always have to be careful here in front of the microphone, because sometimes I start screaming and then you remind me. But I'm thinking, hell, I should be upset today, right? Not Mr. Babiš! He gets so upset, even on TV, but I'm looking at it - I'm sorry, I also looked at the tapes - when I read about the Social Democrats: I would wait for the parliamentary elections. I don't want to shoot all the patrons now. We're loaded very nicely. I would have timed it before the election. I'd save it for next year... And there's talk of us... Well, I should be upset, shouldn't I? So, if a person is talking to a newspaper editor whose real owner he is - I'm sorry to Mr. Babiš, he's going to say no, but we know that he is, the real owner of Agrofert, Mafry and the Ministry of Finance, the last big acquisition of Agrofert, so we know that it's really his - and he's talking to some editor who's very helpful there, and he's saying, "This is what we could do, right? What do you say? I wouldn't... And he says, "Well, I'd wait till the election, we're pretty loaded... I'm sorry, can I start screaming here today? Isn't it legitimate for me to start? 'Cause it bothers me a little bit that someone in this position controls this kind of media, so he's planning it so nicely, he's got us there as if, according to some system, he's gonna start shooting at the right time. And some experienced PR group is gonna decide when we're gonna put on what to... Well, that doesn't leave us much if you've got it all figured out! Well, then I should be upset. Not because we are likely to lose it when Mr Babiš is so well prepared, but especially because it is of course a question of whether it is normal for a politician to do such things in the Czech Republic. I'm not saying Mr. Babiš is the first oligarch in the media. But he's the first prime minister and the finance minister to connect it! And that's a whole new quality! The other day, when I spoke to him, Mr. Babiš asked: " Have I ever blackmailed anyone? Has anyone ever seen me blackmail anyone? - That was the question. So how am I supposed to interpret, Minister, when you told me that sentence a few days ago, call me off, and I'll show you what my media can do... I repeat your sentence. You told me to call me off, and I'll show you what my media can do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u11	I ask the Minister of Finance to refrain from commenting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u12	I think all the MPs know me, so let's leave that to them if I like to make it up or lie. If anyone ever caught me lying or anything, I don't think they're gonna believe me. If they're more used to me telling the truth, maybe they'll believe me. I'm saying this as an answer to your question if you've ever blackmailed anyone. I'll tell you, this sentence of yours personally seemed like hard blackmail to me. And now for the next question you asked. You asked me what I was doing undemocratic... Can I get some water? [[He's taking a bottle of water from his seat in the government bench next to the sitting minister Babiš. There is an incomprehensible remark from the plenary and then the laughter of the Members from the right.]] No, it's my water. [[With a smile.]] [[14.00 hours]] I still have to try, because it seems to be necessary to explain what is undemocratic about what we are discussing here, and why the Prime Minister obviously had to decide that Mr Babiš could not continue to be in government. I'm not gonna play political. The case of Andrej Babiš has spread beyond the border. You can find it in Reuters, in Tageszeitung, you can find it in the Financial Times, so world experts like Karen Dondersová and others comment on it. And that's where you'll read from this Belgian expert that today-- that's an explanation for what's undemocratic. She says that today society has the power of legislative, executive, judicial and media, a kind of fourth power, which is the watchdog of other powers. It's a matter of control and balance between them. In order for such a system to work, each of these forces must be self-guided, and there is no way that anyone else can control it. And I quote: If anyone in the government controls the media directly or indirectly, the entire system of control and balance will cease to function. Basically, the reason for the existence of journalism and democracy is collapsing. So that's undemocratic. And Mrs.Dondersová also says that she is shocked that in the Czech Republic she can perform a position as high as Babiš, a politician who probably doesn't know anything about this and who doesn't feel the ethical standards at all and who apparently has no problem breaking them in a brutal way. So I think that's why I'd like the House to agree that Mr. Babiš should leave the government. Because that system, if it works, that someone is using their political power and influence on important media - the Young Front is, as far as I know, one of the most read journals here - it's simply a threat to the whole system. That's just not how he works. I'd like to tell you one thing. I find these days interesting in the fact that one great legend is ending, or even two. The first legend that Mr. Babiš here repeated many times when he said that he wasn't actually a politician, that he actually sits here with us like the duck that quacks, cradles, acts, but he's not really a duck. No. Mr. Babiš sits here with us as an MP, he's in government as Deputy Prime Minister, he does everything we do, and he's really a politician. He didn't believe it for a long time. So now I'd advise him to look at the foreign newspaper. In the media abroad, Mr. Minister, unfortunately, you are treated as a politician; they see you as part of the Czech political scene. And according to what you do, they even judge Czech politics. You are an expression of Czech politics. You may have stubbornly repeated in this country that you do not belong in politics, but there it is quite clear in the articles. You're a Czech politician. You are a Czech politician and they judge you there as someone who shows what is possible in Czech politics and how a Czech politician can behave. For them, the legend ends that you don't belong in politics. Nobody cares there. There's talk of you being suspected of receiving tax-free income. There's talk of suspicion that your office is holding a protective hand over you. There are rumors that the Cape čapí is being dealt with by the international commission. Experts talk about it being an abuse of the meaning of subsidies that should have been intended for small and medium-sized enterprises. In the case of the Cape čapí, there is talk of suspicion that you are reading police files. There is talk of you refusing to answer the questions of journalists, even being arrogant to them, as it has been said here, you've already said it here in some way, some kind of messed up or something. That means you're a Czech public politician in the newspapers and the thousands I was talking about. That means the end of the legend of Mr. Babiš, who is not a politician. It comes to us from the outside that you are 100%, and even as you behave, it seems like a fairly successful politician. And not that you're out of the matrix. But you're not just part of the matrix, you're even creating the matrix here. You've been telling us for so long that you want to fight the matrix until you've shown that you're actually the source of it, because what you're creating is the system. You're not out of line. It's not some random conflict of interest law. What's going on these last few days means you're building some kind of matrix right here. And then there's another legend that I think should end, which I'm glad to be able to tell the public here in the House. It has long been said that it is advantageous for someone who is rich to enter politics. I'm sure that's not the kind of person that's gonna steal. I mean, that was your position, that all the stealing, all the corrupt, only I don't need it because I have enough money. Well, I'd like to make one conclusion here, which seems obvious to me from what's going on in front of us. When someone like that comes into politics, there's a whole new danger that he's going to use the resources he has in a way that we see here, that he'll just pay where, that he'll pay for the media, and that he'll start fighting in a way that the one who doesn't have the money can't afford. And so I dare say that when people like you enter politics, there is a great danger. I myself said that even a man like you has the right to be involved in elections, to be elected, and you have the right to function. That's what I said, you can't deny it. And I say, three years later, that we can see the great risks it carries. I would like to contact the Czech public. Stop believing that someone being secured means it's safer. Looks like they're new, heavy, very serious risks. That man is able to pay where he can with his money. And he's able to use political influence in combination with money to create a monopoly. [[Mr Bohuslav Chalupa of YES shouts from the bench: It is democracy!]] This is not a democracy, because, as I explained to you a moment ago, democracy is that the system must have control and balance. As Mr. Babiš shows, he's disrupting all controls and balances.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u13	I ask the Members not to shout from the point of view. They will be able to sign up for the debate. I suppose.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u14	Today I came to the conclusion that Mr Babiš entered politics primarily to defend the interests of his business. I think that he never actually entered politics to learn what is public interest. That is why I would like the House to agree today that Mr Babiš does not belong in the Czech Government and to vote for him to leave that government. And I would also like the President to comply with the Constitution to do what the Prime Minister asked him to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u15	Thank you. I beg President Kalousek, who is the last to be logged in with priority rights. And if there are no more applications, then we will vote on the agenda. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u16	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to thank Minister Babiš for extending my collection of Dadaist statements. Please let us remember. The statement "I have no political power, and I have never abused it" seems almost as good as the statement "I have never taken any money, and the amount does not agree." [[Laughs of some Members, applause of the ČSSD.]] But now, please, cut to the chase. Minister Babiš here blamed us for bothering him terribly and trying to get him out of politics. I'd like to ask him not to take it personally. It's not really personal, if anyone's upset or doesn't mind Babiš. It bothers us, Minister, that your behavior, which is unfortunately well known beyond the borders, is being moved somewhere among the banana republics with the effective support of the President of the Czech Republic. And I'm still very sorry about Costa Rica. We really think that the Czech Republic does not deserve this and that the Chamber of Deputies is here to defend and maintain the minimum standards of civilised European political behaviour, customs and culture. I'm not going back - you've been coming back in your speech for decades. I'm not going back to čapí's nest, or credit, or tax fraud. We discussed this on other occasions and at another meeting. I'm really going to stick to the subject for which the meeting was convened, that is, for the shocking information that was made on three published recordings. I don't want to explore how they came into existence and how they got public. And probably in a pretty nasty way that deserves to be condemned. And it's really a matter for the police to investigate in a consistent manner. However, if the content has been heard, the Chamber of Deputies cannot ignore the information that has been said there, because all three recordings testify to an unprecedented abuse of political power against independent institutions. [[14.10 hours]] The first recording attracted most of the public by the extraordinary case of the amazing vulgarisms that you used to frequent your government colleagues, but that would not really make it necessary to convene an extraordinary meeting. However, even if you were to address your colleagues there, not with the words you used, but if you were to say "an honest colleague of the Zaorálek, an honored colleague, Marksová Tominová," there was absolutely shocking information, information where you yourself confirm that you have made a great effort to influence the composition of the Arbitration Court in the Chamber of Economics and Agrarians. This is an independent decision-making institution enjoying almost the same protection as the courts. And it is absolutely unimaginable for a politician in a civilized country, the Minister of Finance, a member of the government to take action in the direction of some dark agreements or pressures to influence the personnel composition of this congregation. It is the same as trying - I hope you are not - to influence the appointment process of judges or officials of individual courts. It's just something that's already enough to disqualify politics. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] The second record only confirmed what we all already know, and all those who read the papers and know how the Young Front and Lidové noviny used to write and how they write today, what they write about, what they don't write about, what they won't write about, so it's just confirmed. There it has been confirmed that you are tasking your editors for your own political interests and for the destruction of your political opponents. I'm not able to continue until...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u17	Quiet in the Chamber, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u18	Thank you for understanding. And for the destruction of your political opponents. It's terribly dangerous for democracy. Democracy cannot exist without independent media. And their mission is to control power. You are, Minister, and on this recording it is confirmed that he made the Young Front and the Lidové noviny part of Agrofert's intelligence and propaganda division. And instead of controlling power, they became a part of it, giving up completely on their social mission. This is the second thing that would be immediately enough in a civilised world to disqualify politically any high policy. Record number three then clearly confirms that you were introduced - and not that it was a provocation, you happily accepted the introduction, and you even said what should be released before the Socan convention and what should be released before the election, in order to damage the socans as much as possible - with information from the live police file. Mr Brunclík, whose speech you comment on on the recording - I quote, you said "that's a bit of a mess" - confirmed to the Czech Radio that the interview quoted on the recording is authentic and that it was provided in Luhačovice on 8 February. So quite shortly after you handed Mafra over to the trust fund and swore that you wouldn't really influence your paper. That's another case, of course. Once again, he alone would be sufficient for an absolute scandal and total political disqualification in any civilised country. We've got three. Any one of them would be fine. And you have the courage to tell us that you don't have any political power, and you're not using it at all, and that it's all a lie and a campaign against you. No, Minister, I am sorry, you are acting in a way that if the Czech Republic were to tolerate, if the Chamber of Deputies were to tolerate, it would really agree that we are not a civilised European country. You quoted my name in your speech, I didn't count it at least 20 times, so let me comment very briefly. I have heard similar words in this Chamber of Deputies Vít Bárta. Vít Bárta was such an openingist on the Czech political scene. He also criticized traditional political parties, he also fought corrupt hydro, he also had an extraordinary fondness for police files, and he was also a whiny liar. But against you, Minister, that was a huge format and a fair man. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u19	Thank you. I beg President Faltýnek and Minister Pelikán will prepare himself. Still priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u20	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, Mr President. As usual, when we deal with Mr. Babiš and the cases that are already evergreen in this House, I took my favorite reading, which is called Miroslav Kalousek - 20 years of his administrative and political games. But since you all already know this book, I will not quote and use it today, but I just want to remind everyone who is interested that this book published by the Foundation Fund against Corruption is very informative. However, when we talk about the potential influence of the media and of these matters, let me give you one small quote from this book. It is just one sentence, and it concerns the statement made by Mr Kalousek, then the Minister of Finance, to Mr Police President and investigators and prosecutors, when he says that as a Christian he cannot recommend to an investigator or a supervisory prosecutor to shoot themselves, but frankly, if not to shoot himself, at least resignation from their duties is the only possible option. My friends, colleagues, first of all, I consider this meeting to be a staged theater with a clear end. And they have already agreed, and if we listened carefully to the speeches of individual speakers, rarely a colleague of the Foreign Minister Luboš Zaorálek and Chairman of the TOP 09 MP Michal Kučera, that it is necessary for the coalition TOP 09 and the ČSSD to adopt a resolution in this House that Babiš should get out of Czech politics. That was very clear here. And we all know that's how the script is all set up, directed, staged, and that's exactly how it's gonna turn out. However, I would like to remind you today how this was all from my point of view and what led to this extraordinary meeting. It's so-called, as the journalists say, a deep human story. [[14.20 hours]] The Prime Minister is attacking Andrej Babiš and the ANO movement since the regional elections. That's when we won, but the victory of our movement threatened long-acting money lines in the regions. She also participated in building them with social democracy. And all you have to do is remember the case of the ROP Northwest. After the elections, some colleagues found that a similar scenario could also take place a year after the parliamentary elections, and therefore it was necessary to tarnish the ANO movement and, above all, its chairman somehow. And, uh, our coalition partners started to be at the beginning of the year when polls showed a possible loss, and things started to happen. Because unlike traditional political parties, we have no corruption scandal, neither, Prime Minister Sobotka and Mr Kalousek agreed to do so through the chairman of the Andrej Babiš movement. [[Laughing in the hall]] That was then, I feel, January, February. First, they tried to poison him by adopting Lex Babiš, a law that was made, pushed through, and voted only for one person. And I respect him for that. Chairman of the ODS Petr Fiala said it even in one medium, on the Internet, on Facebook. It was already clear that we were forming a coalition of traditional political parties in the House and a super-efficient link between Prime Minister Sobotka and Mr Kalousek. But Lex Babiš didn't work out as planned. The chairman of our movement didn't get poisoned, so it was necessary to pull out some heavier caliber. Mr Kalousek, the anti-Babiš coalition, has made tax evasion out of a botched bill that no one but once again favourite finance minister of our country, Mr Kalousek. Yes, by strictly following the messed-up, but the law in force, according to Prime Minister Andrej Babiš, should have allowed tax evasion. That's a logical design worthy of a master, my friends. Babiš fucked the state, wrote the Prime Minister on Facebook when his advisors recommended it. And the attacks continued. On 14 April there was a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, where an extraordinary item called Tax fraud of the Minister of Finance was pushed through by no one other than Miroslav Kalousek, the former Minister of Finance. And I've been living the whole time thinking that the point was being discussed, that it was tax fraud by former finance minister Miroslav Kalousek. And at the end of the day, we were convinced that someone else was the target here. At that time, the MPs, all of us, not me, most of you, Andrej Babiš, gave an ultimatum by Sunday, April 30, to explain the unexplained. To explain the unexplained. Why he acted by the law. I say in parentheses messed up, but somebody else messed up. We know who screwed up. Moreover, MEPs attacked the tax administration, saying that it was not, again, traditionally without concrete evidence. The Prime Minister added to the boiler when he declared on 21 April - I quote: "There is suspicion of tax evasion in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns. " Make it look like Babiš is stealing big. Andrej Babiš answered all the questions on the given date, but the Prime Minister didn't seem to have the answer. But he didn't read anything specific. And in my opinion, but I hope I'm wrong, but I don't think he even read the whole 20-page material. Why, too. This also proves the fact that he has not responded to the letter until now. And he wasn't afraid to call this document a pamphlet. Classic. And when I was thinking about it today, I didn't notice that you would actually ask any additions or explanations from one of your fellow Members, or you didn't say specifically what the answer is weak, wrong, false, etc. But maybe I didn't hear it. But I didn't notice anything like that, which is weird. So maybe some of us, of you, haven't read it either, the 20 pages, including the opinions and opinions. And at this point, it's actually a comedy. A comedy of social democracy and its chairman. I'm sorry to have to say this, and I have an internal problem with it, because of course it's a shame that we are demoting the results of the government's work here in front of the Czech public through this circus. Instead of calling the Prime Minister's coalition negotiations and having his problems face-to-face with the coalition partners, as it was this morning, unfortunately late, he preferred to call on his fellow Vice Prime Minister to resign through the media. On 2 May, the Prime Minister spoke at a press conference announcing that the government would resign. It's been said here a few times. Personally, I am very sorry, because this step has actually marked and dehonested the government's work throughout its term of office. Okay. It was his decision, which he didn't consult with anyone, but it was the Prime Minister's decision. And then the wonders in our country began to happen. The very next day, Wednesday morning, the police launched an extensive event related to subsidies to Czech sport, in which social democracy is involved. Potential grant fraud in the order of hundreds of millions of crowns, in which the deputy and friend of Minister Valachová and other people are involved. I think it's a fuck-up like Brno, and it's gotta be a cover-up. I'm sorry, Brno. What the hell he didn't want, the same day, there was a reason why we're actually meeting here today. Same day. The same day, illegal edited recordings of Andrej Babiš's wiretap were made by a journalist. After that, no one wanted to discuss what happened at the Ministry of Education and other sports organizations, but what Mr Babiš said on these illegal recordings. That's brilliantly simple. That's the best I could do. [[14.30 hours]] But let's not be fooled, folks. Let us not be fooled, dear citizens. Raiding the Ministry of Education is not the only problem that needs to be covered at this point. What about the outstanding CZK 300 million to Mr Altner, who is no longer among us, when social democracy simply ignores the decision of the court and tells our public that debts are not payable and do not have to be paid? But let's leave it at that. I've done such a brief monitoring of the last week of our press. And what exactly happened? It's three things. First, the Attorney General filed charges in the case of the tunneling of the Mostecký coal company. Among the defendants, for your information, is the ex-Deputy Minister of Industry for Social Democracy. Under the governments of social democracy, the government sold a share of this company in US Appian Group quotes and subsequently Škoda Plzeň. Under all other governments, the police investigation of the company's tunnelling was swept three times under the rug and it was only renewed in 2012 after the court wrongfully condemned the privatisation actors in Switzerland for money laundering, i.e. for bringing money stolen to Switzerland in Bohemia. Secondly, last week the court continues with experts and officials who have prepared the sale of the state interest in OKD actually to Mr Bakal. Who signed the contract then? Our current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. The expert resists in this process that he received the award to appreciate the proceeds of the shares, and not to appreciate the assets and not to value those tens of thousands of flats, land, real estate, hospitals, recreational facilities etc. That's what a fifth-grade kid would understand, what's the difference! But Mr. Sobotka is making excuses for not understanding the opinion that he just signed the whole thing. When the European Commission was saving years ago if the low price of sales was not public support, the state did everything it could to prevent Mr Bakala from returning anything. And waiting for us in some short time, and this was also mentioned this week, or last time, that we will deal with the release of two colleagues in the case of the ROP Northwest. What about the media and politicians? Nothing. Nothing! It's okay, it's standard. Unfortunately, we've gotten used to that in the past 27 years. After that, the Prime Minister felt the chance, changed his mind again, made another opinional cocktail, and turned the political crisis into a potato, called off his decision on the government's demise, and again wanted to call off the coalition partner without coalition negotiations. The president didn't hear him when I said it politely, and he said he wanted to hear the name of the successor. There the whole crisis is stuck in quotes, and the Prime Minister is waiting for our proposals and continues to attack. But okay, we're used to it. And the House is meeting at an emergency meeting, and it's going to deal with the fact that some journalist from Mafra - and I don't know if it was Hujer or the provocator - will probably find out the police - visited Mr. Babiš and tried to please him. Since this is no longer an absurd theater, I wonder what else it could be. This ridiculous theater, premeditated, directed, agreed with a clear end? I have no doubt that colleagues of coalition partners and Members of Social Democracy and KDU-ČSL will undoubtedly support the agenda of the meeting. What we're about to learn today, and we've heard here that Babiš is using the media. And the fact that most of the media, especially the public, is against Babiš and against our movement is not at all important. But luckily, the public sees it because our people aren't completely stupid. And I get a lot of e-mails and texts every day to defend ourselves to this theater, to get Babiš out of politics. It is probably not important that all the parties sitting here are hiring PR agencies that propose to them how to harm political competitors. We've gotten used to it that way for years, and there's nothing we can do about it. I can already hear more passwords and speeches - that Babiš poses a danger to parliamentary democracy, that is what you all agree on here, and it is necessary to get him out of politics, to ban him from running and not letting him into public life at all. I suppose the House will adopt some overwhelming resolution, which the Minister of Finance and perhaps our entire movement will condemn, and I understand, and it is basically from the very beginning, but I just don't understand why our coalition partners are actually the originator of these matters, virtually. Chief Coalition Partner headed by the Prime Minister. It sounded here, and it's going to sound x times here, and it's true that the House is a sovereign, and it can accept the resolution it wants. And no one's questioning that. But one thing we shouldn't forget: there's an even stronger souvenir over the House, and that's the voter. He should decide who will be involved in the management of our country. But it seems that most of you don't want to leave it to the voters, it would probably be very risky, and that's why we need to adopt a resolution here in the House, which will tell our public that, for example - now it has occurred to me, this resolution might sound like: We, the politicians of traditional parties, social democracy, ODS, TOP 09 and KDU-ČSL, are interested in maintaining the political conditions that have been here for the last 27 years. To this end, we will join forces and do everything we can to keep Babiš and others from talking to us. Voters do not show sufficient maturity, so the wise Chamber of Deputies must teach them what is right for democracy in the Czech Republic. - It's probably not gonna be that open. I'm bohužel so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u21	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I thank Prime Minister Faltýnek. Another registered priority right is Minister Pelikán, after whom President Stanjura. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are still at a stage where only the agenda should be discussed, and I will try to stick to it, and for this reason I will also be quite brief. After all, a lot of what I would have said before me was a colleague of Faltýnek or a colleague of Babiš. The only topic by the name of the meeting is some kind of abuse of power against independent institutions of a democratic society. Unfortunately, we have not learned how to abuse what power and which independent institutions. Not to mention that it is not possible to abuse power from the point of view of formal logic towards independent institutions. But okay. The only thing we're gonna know exactly is that the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš. This would probably not create any doubt that we would be discussing this here, when the Minister of the Interior delivers his considerably simplistic and length of study corresponding to criminal qualifications almost anything to the police the next day, or on the second day the GIBS launched an investigation exactly according to such an assignment. Or while we're at the paper, it might be a high-ranking Social Democrat and a close friend of the Prime Minister calling me the day before some interview comes out in the Hospodářské noviny, and he's telling me what I said there was nice, and he's also telling me that I didn't say something quite nice there, so the other half of the interview is never gonna work out, which is something not so nice. We could probably talk about these things, too. But we're limited to Andrej Babiš. And as it turns out, we're actually supposed to talk about what was on some tapes that somebody, and we don't know who, recorded. Which someone, we don't know who, cut as much as he could use. Which someone, and we don't know who, lets into the world as it suits him. Some coward does that that he can't even sign. We can only speculate who he is. If we take it from who it suits: Is it the Prime Minister? Is he the Home Secretary? It's one of the godfathers behind them. Oh, my pánbůh, he knows. What I want to draw your attention to, ladies and gentlemen, is that it is not possible to say on one side "It's disgusting that such recordings were made. It needs to be investigated. How is that possible?" And, on the other hand, discuss what is contained in these recordings. Ladies and gentlemen, if you seriously debate what the content of these anonymous non-authentic recordings is, you are becoming an accomplice and an instrument of who is gradually letting those recordings into the world. And ladies and gentlemen, you might like it, because it will help you stop that disgusting Andrej Babiš. But messing with something like that never ends well. Stop being hypocrites. If someone was recording you, we might find out a lot worse. And maybe someone's already recording you. Maybe soon, when he needs it too, someone will let it into the world. If you let this happen once, you'll never stop it again. Ladies and gentlemen, here are... the rhetoric of ethics, democracy, constitutionality, etc. So I would like to remind you that we also have something called the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and which is part of our constitutional order. And that also has some article 10. And he says: Everyone has the right to protection against unauthorized interference with private and family life. Everyone has the right to protection against unauthorised collection, disclosure or other abuse of personal data. [[with emphasis]] Everyone is, ladies and gentlemen, even Andrej Babiš. And I ask that you, as the Chamber of Deputies, do not approve of the agenda of the meeting, the subject of which is a violation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u23	I thank the Minister of Justice. The President of the Citizen's Democratic Party, Zbyněk Stanjura, is another member of the priority right. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor. Vice-President Bartošek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u24	Thank you for the floor. It's not easy to perform after Luc Brasi's performance, defending his Don and his loyal aide, who controls the Justice Department, but... [[Let's hear it from the right.]] I'll try and start with what the Minister of Justice ended up with. [[Puts aside a bottle of water.]] I don't know whose it is. The minister threatened us that they might actually be recording us already. Maybe, maybe not. Minister, what are you doing not to be done like the Minister of Justice? [[Let's hear it from the right.]] What are you doing to make sure that there are no leaks from police files in the Mladá fronta and Lidovky holding company today and daily? What did you do as Minister of Justice to prevent it? Nothing. It's a holding company, so let's burn our fingers. It's that simple. The Minister of Finance has taken a stand today, as a favorite, whining - they're all hurting me. Besides stealing everything, everyone's still hurting him. And he asked rhetorical questions and had quite strong statements. And I will try from public sources, not from those recordings, to remind the Minister of some lies when he said he never lied. So let's remember. Today he says he owned Agrofert since 1995. I have no reason not to believe him. [[I didn't say that.]] But until 2001, he denied it, and I said nothing. Let's remember the stork's nest. That was in a different condition, Mr. Secretary. He stood there and said, "I'm a billionaire." I'm a billionaire. So what? I wouldn't do anything for $50 million. And what did he say about the Hawk's čapí? Remember how he told the truth. Those were unknown investors. I don't know who it was. I don't know who that was. All we did was vouch for it. To say, "They were my children." The unknown investor was the children of Minister Babiš, but as always, he was telling the truth. He wasn't lying when he said they were unknown investors. But you might know that. Yesterday I learned, and from the press conference, to distinguish Andrej Babiš's businessman before joining politics and Andrej Babiš as a politician after his entry into politics. I don't have a problem with that, even if it's a little funny. Crown bonds. It was published by Agrofert when Mr. Andrej Babiš was a businessman. That's just the truth. Whether the law was messed up or not. But when did Andrej Babiš buy them? As an entrepreneur or as a politician? Like a politician. [[Finance Minister: He didn't buy, he paid.]] He wasn't shopping. I did. You normally shop and don't pay. Sure. We know that. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] You come to the store, you buy, you pay in nine months. It's quite common. Whoever says otherwise is lying and organizing a campaign. We all know it. I shop sometimes, and I pay another time. I did. He paid as a Member, and the next tranche was paid by the Minister of Finance, who was screaming here: All stealing, taxes are due! He paid them as a politician. The Minister of Finance mentioned Mr. Březina. I don't know him. And that's actually why the whole case came about. Simple question, Minister: Who is Mr. Březina with in the coalition at the Prague City Council? Isn't that the YES movement? Isn't she cooperating with your mayor today and every day? I think so. So if he's so unacceptable, why are you in the coalition with him? Do something. Get rid of him! [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Don't point your finger at the others. [[14.50 hours]] Luca Brasi here told us these are the traditional political parties. He must know something about it. For 18 years he was a member of the Czech Social Democratic Party, and as he often and repeatedly says, I am proud of it. So I guess you were building the money lines you were talking about. And notice what he said. I wouldn't think of that either. [[Laughter and applause across the hall.]] That's what pisses him off. Not that anyone thought of it, but that he didn't think of it. But I agree with him that we're having an absurd theater here. Let's hear it today. We don't have to go back the day before yesterday. Social Democrats say that Andrej Babiš cannot be in government, a disaster. Andrej Babiš and his faithful say: This is organized by the Prime Minister, Březina and I don't know who, maybe the Foreign Minister. But in that government, they all want to stay together. No one wants to leave the ministerial seat or the Social Democrats who don't want to terminate the coalition treaty while they're with the criminal YES. But neither is the YES movement, where they are with it - I will not quote what they say about the Prime Minister - but with the Social Democrats. They don't want to leave either. And the folk brothers, of course, stay there: Let's see how it turns out, as long as we're there with them. But then they will say, "We are the third ones, we have nothing in common with the first ones or others." And maybe somebody will believe them. I didn't. The crisis that we are experiencing, and this is without doubt a proper description of the situation, has not only caused the ANO movement and the Minister of Finance, but also Prime Minister Sobotka, Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, Czech Social Democratic Party and KDU. Let us remember - President Mihola is not here at the moment - when the House voted to abolish the duty of ministers to present a demonstration certificate. Who was in? Government MPs and communists, I understand. And then they promised me, like, across the aisle, we kind of missed that. Don't worry, we're going to submit a parliamentary bill that will return the obligation to present the illustration certificate to the ministers. That was the first time constitutional practices were violated during this parliamentary term, not now. The first time, but it was convenient then, so the coalition partners of the YES movement pretended not to know about it. They voted with Andrej Babiš and his movement, so they have the same responsibility as they do. The Minister of Finance is defending himself by being a victim. That's his usual and favorite word - he's the victim. I'm a billionaire, but I'm a victim. I don't have political power. However, everyone writes how politically the strongest player in the Czech Republic is. That he was the victim of a provocateur agent and that he was recording it. With all due respect, I say it's disgusting. I agree that everyone has the right to privacy and that recording is not illegal, in private. But he recorded it, as he says, at my house in the falcon hall. So I modeled it so much, how does an agent like that get to the Treasury Secretary's meeting repeatedly? I mean, you take the phone, you get the finance minister's number, and you say, "I'd take you," and now what? I guess he wanted to say something because it wasn't an interview, obviously. I'm a journalist from Mafra, loyal, passionate, I know exactly what to write. I'd like to discuss it with you. And it wasn't weird for the Minister of Finance and he met him repeatedly, with this alleged provocateur. I wasn't listening, but I read the transcripts on the servers. Now, let's see: supposedly, an agent provocateur, otherwise an employee of Mafra, will bring police files to the finance minister. He rustles, watches and doesn't ask the logical question that I think any of us would ask: What is it? Someone broke the law. That's a logical question. But what did the Minister of Finance ask Babiš? "Who's it for?" He doesn't ask what's going on, whether it's legal or illegal. He's asking who it's up against. Against the soccer and maybe against the ODS. Good. Let's wait, let's time ourselves. As he says, I kicked it away from myself before the Socan House, and maybe before the election. I have four specific questions for the Minister of Finance. The Minister's flat tire? He told me he wanted to be a police president. So, first question, who did Robert Šlachta tell you that he wanted to be police president? Second, second question: When was this? Three. Wasn't it weird that he said that to you, Minister of Finance? And four, and that's what I'm most interested in: what did you say to him? [[Laughs in the hall.]] I'd really like to know. And who did you send that message for? I tried to count, it's really incredible stories when the minister bought his first plot at 15. So I counted when he collected the balls, five crowns an hour - if he didn't go to school and collect them six hours a day, that's thirty crowns a day. If he did it every week every day, that's 150 crowns a week, that's about six hundred a month. Well, he's been collecting the tennis balls for a long time to save up on the property he bought at the age of 15 to sell it for millions. I don't know exactly when the Minister of Finance was born, but when he was 15, we didn't have a market economy here. I'm younger, obviously when I was 15, I didn't even think I'd buy any land. I don't know what the Communists would say about a 15-year-old wanting to buy land. Maybe he was from a good family, so the comrades allowed it. We have to think about the back wheels, don't we? Let us note the interesting approach of the Minister of Finance, but also of his loyal defenders. If any of you write a paper about it, it's true. If they write anything about Andrej Babiš, it's a lie and a campaign. Really, those journalists, that's awful. They're writing the truth about everyone. He always says, "I read in the papers." Yesterday I recorded his statement: Well, I think it was recorded by the Social Democrats, but I don't have the evidence. But he already knows that it's organized by the Prime Minister, who, of course, is responsible for who the Minister of Finance is. Now he's pretending he doesn't want to fight him. But for three and a half years, they sat here together and voted one bad law after another hand in hand. And we also had a meeting here at the Czech Post Office. We've had her suspended for two years, and nothing. We had a meeting here about the Chap's Nest, and that's where the government MPs cut off, a year ago, maybe two. As the legendary figure in Pelíšky said, I give it two or three years, and then maybe they'll investigate. We'll see. Nothing again. What about it? They're quite serious - they had a meeting this morning. According to them, they're criminals, they're criminals, they're corrupters, they're abusers of power. But they will rule together until the proper term of election for the benefit of the people of the Czech Republic. I wonder if they believe that. We certainly don't believe it, and certainly not even citizens can believe it. A proper meeting of the Chamber of Deputies begins next week on Tuesday. What are we discussing? What atmosphere? My opinion is that if no government proposal goes through, it's only right. But that's why we're suggesting that we end the agony, the awkward circus, the theater and agree on a realistic deadline for early elections, which we think is the beginning of September. Since we are the proponents of this meeting, let me present to you the motion for two resolutions that it will obtain - I think it can be supported by all the members present in the Chamber of Deputies who do not have blinders or ears. One. The Chamber of Deputies notes that Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš repeatedly lied in his public speeches and abused his media to compromise political opponents. And two. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the President of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman, to respect the Constitution of the Czech Republic consistently in the performance of his duties. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u25	Thank you to President Stanjur. With priority right, Mr. Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Bartošek. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Personally, I think I'd best follow up on Minister Zaorálek. I also think that having property is not an obstacle to being in politics, but it carries a great degree of risk. And it turns out in practice that the risk is greater than we might have imagined before. [[15.00 hours]] Mr. Secretary - now he's gone, never mind, I'll say it anyway. [[Voices from the O.R. He's not here, he's gone.]] You're saying you're not from the world of politics. You claim you're not a politician. And I'm telling you, that's not true. You've been a part of the political world since the '50s, '90s. [[revival in the hall, speaker corrected]] Maybe the '50s, too. You have shaped the political scene in this republic. You were a direct part of it, you just couldn't see so much. Too bad you don't remember your ties to Mr. Langer, Gross and others. Too bad you forgot so quickly that you were active and that you were in very close contact with the world of politics in the Czech Republic. If the real truth is the wiretap that's out there - and I'm concerned that listening to strangers is dirty, and it's not supposed to be done if it's not approved by the law - but if the wiretap is true, I can think of one such story from the 1950s when it was said, "When they arrested millionaires, I kept my mouth shut because it didn't concern me." When they arrested those who owned hundreds of thousands, I also kept my mouth shut because it didn't concern me. And then when they came for me, there was no one left to stand up for me. Pragmatically, I could approach this by saying: Social democracy is spoken of in eavesdropping, ODS is spoken of in eavesdropping, so I could say that it does not concern me, that is my political competition. But it concerns me. It's about each of you. And while you may not want to admit it, so do you, dear members of the YES movement. It's just real, that's what it is. And if that's true, I'm telling you, he's returning to the Republic of Moresa, which we know before 1989 with the full degree of non-freedom, manipulation and influence of public opinion. [[Member Janulík from the O.R. Off the microphone: And if that's not true?]] I will get to that, my colleague, through Mr President. What I'm sorry about is that instead of taking part in a substantive debate and answering questions here, when we don't get answers, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, you go into personal attacks. This isn't about discussion. This is about the fact that you are unable to discuss and are unable to answer. And instead of discussing it, we often find you insulting people instead of explaining things. And I am even convinced that you are damaging the YES movement in many ways by your conduct. And I'm sure you made a major mistake when someone tells you that these are false files and interrogations, that you didn't go out and go to the police. And I'm gonna answer that. As a member of the government, if it harms you, it's not true, the wiretap is rigged, why don't you ask for the Security Council of the State to be convened? You have this competence! You can have it checked out! And I'm willing to support you! You have it in your power, and you will not use it either. You've said many times at coalition councils how you don't influence the media, how you don't enter them. It's not true! It's not true. And I am convinced that in a civilized society, you would resign or resign as Minister. And one more question I'm asking myself. Assuming that the recording you're talking about getting into your hands with the Beretta file, interrogation of other people, and if this overlaps with the time when the Chamber of Deputies was holding an investigation committee on police reform, I wonder if you lied to us. All the more so, the whole situation should be investigated whether or not it is true and whether or not the interrogations have been tampered with. Because if that's true, there are many things that could explain. On behalf of the People's Party, we'll support the agenda for the meeting. And one last thing I want to say. If we think or if anyone thinks that what is happening is just a threat or an attack on social democracy, for example, to be weakened or eliminated before the convention or before the election, if it is to be an attack on the ODS or any other party, then the essence is much deeper and more complex. In the same way, companies, for example, can be eliminated in a competitive fight, cases can be made for individual people, and justice is not allowed. It means, it's not that we're only dealing with wiretaps here. Today, we are dealing with the future of this country and its further direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-10-ps2013-058-01-000-000.u27	I thank Vice-President Bartošek, who has been the last to sign up with priority rights so far. We will vote on the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby and from the galleys. I'll read the note. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day due to a business trip abroad. Mrs Nytrová apologizes today throughout the day for personal reasons. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the proposal for the 58th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as presented in writing. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 2, 146 Members and Members registered, for 106, against 39. The draft meeting has been approved. We will now proceed to the only item on the show
