ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u1	41. The Senate Bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, Act No. 26/2000 Coll., on public auctions, as amended, and Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its solution (Insolvency Act), as amended /German press 1108/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 1108/1. I ask that the motion put forward by Senator Jitka Seitlová. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u2	Dear Vice-President, Dear Representatives of the Government, Dear Colleagues and Colleagues, allow me to come before you with a Senate amendment to the Act, Press 1108, amending the Civil Procedure Code, the Act on Public Auctions and the Act on Bankruptcy and the ways in which it is dealt with. In the Czech Republic, more than 58,000 housing-owners' communities are registered, which manage 1.3 million housing units. Since 2000, people who purchased an apartment have been obliged to create in houses with a number of over five housing units and with three or more owners a legal entity of the owners' community for the purpose of joint house management. Even if it has not been officially created, according to law, such a community exists de facto and the administration must, of course, be exercised by the authorised administrator. The legislation provides for a common property responsibility for the community and its members. Unfortunately, the instrument for protecting the rights of owners against non-payers for joint management and service is, by coincidence, insufficient by adopting successively different legislation. In cases of recovery of non-payer owners' debts, the community is in an unequal position vis-à-vis other creditors, in particular mortgage creditors. The amount of debt can therefore come to another person who will start paying in a joint account and all services, the amount of debt is in the order of tens of thousands of crowns. However, I myself have encountered cases that are not quite unique when debt amounts range from 200 to 400,000 crowns. In cases where the apartment has been purchased for mortgage or subsequently stopped for loan and is the sole asset value of the debtor, the community and the people who manage the community will unfortunately not receive reimbursement of the amount due, and because they bear the property responsibility, they must pay it themselves. In execution proceedings, public auction or insolvency proceedings, creditors have priority over the full satisfaction of collateral claims, e.g. banks and preferential claims. Debts must be paid by the remaining members of the community. It can mean tens of thousands of crowns per apartment, which if they are the people who will come out and the last saved money has just been put into the apartment, it can be a very serious problem for them and for the whole community. On the basis of the information available to the Association of Apartment Cooperatives, where the community owners are also associated, almost 64 per cent of these claims are unenforceable due to the reasons I have stated. In doing so, the Community and its members are not in any way able to influence the choice or conduct of an undesirable partner, while the mortgage creditor in whose full decision to grant a loan or mortgage is protected in his business risk by a preferential right to cover the claim, unfortunately, the community is paying an unequal position in this legal system. In neighbouring Germany, it is by law a similar community in insolvency proceedings that has a preferred position. In Austria, a special legal arrangement is in force allowing the creation of a lien to cover the debts associated with the ownership of the apartments under the conditions laid down. In order to correct the unequal position of the community vis-à-vis senior and mortgage creditors in recovering debts for their compulsory services, the Senate presents before you a bill drawn up by a group of senators, I will say literally across political clubs and political spectrum. [[15.40 hours]] The proposal has three parts. In the first part, it is proposed to amend the Code of Civil Procedure so that the claims relating to the administration of the house are satisfied by the proceeds of the settlement of the apartment preferably, in order of the claims of the State's costs. In the second part, an amendment to the Act on Public Auctions is submitted so that claims relating to the administration of the house are satisfied preferably with first-class claims. The third part of the proposal concerns the insolvency law and also includes claims for house management to the group satisfied preferably. In all these cases, priority satisfaction is proposed up to 10 per cent of the yield. The Senate discussed this proposal in several readings and carried out a series of amendments against the original proposal. The proposal was discussed with both the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Regional Development, which are gesturers of these legislation, and according to their disposition it was modified. This Senate proposal was supported by most senators, again across the political spectrum. From the point of view of the urgency of solving this problem, where debts continue to rise and people are not protected, the Senate is therefore asking for approval of the proposal in your quicker decision, as has already been said by the President of your plenary. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u3	I thank the Senator for putting her on that point. I ask now that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Jan Farský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Senator, an explanation of the content of this bill has been made here, perhaps I will just add that it is a Senate proposal, to make it quite clear. It was submitted on 21 November 2016 and arrived in the House on 3 May 2017. The Government has expressed its views on it by giving a favourable opinion without any comments, and the Law is designed to be approved in an accelerated procedure pursuant to Section 90 (2) of the Act. 2. The essence of this proposal has been explained by the Senator and I think it is quite comprehensive. What I would like to add, what can be controversial, what can be debatable, is the inclusion in the first group of preferential claims in that the first, if we approve this, will be satisfied by the state's claims, the second will be claims related to the management of the house and the property against the owner of the unit, up to one-tenth of the proceeds from the sale of the unit, thereby reducing by one degree mortgage pledges, secured pledges, but even the underpayments of maintenance. What certainly softens this otherwise forceful adjustment is that it divides only 10 per cent or 10 per cent from the proceeds of the sale of the unit, which makes this otherwise strong provision less likely to make me think that the government has given a favourable opinion on this and, as well as after the long debates in the Senate, it has gone through this proposal. In the rest, I can refer to the comment of the vice-president. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Karel Fiedler first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to thank the senators for their initiative and the presentation of this proposal, which I support, and I also call on other fellow Members and MEPs to support this certainly sensible thing. I myself held two seminars in the Chamber of Deputies, which dealt with the issue of the community of owners of units, although it arose from another impulse and from another title, from the recovery of claims from nonpayers. However, representatives of both cooperatives and of the housing units were often mentioned this problem. Please note that the association of owners or home managers guarantees those obligations and pays them which they create without wanting them. Those are basically debts from the bad guys, as a matter of fact. It's something other than a commercial base, for example. housing loans secured by a pledge that so far had priority, where it was a commercial basis, for the commercial interest of both parties to conclude this relationship, whereas, in this case, what the Senate proposal deals with is a matter that arises forced to the house administrator, and has to deal with debts actually incurred against his will, because, thanks to other circumstances - we could discuss whether or not the co-owners of the house should have or have no right to comment on who will become their co-partner or not. I think that, after the discussions and with the Deputy Ombudswoman, this would really be worth opening up. I thank the senators once again for their initiative. I certainly support the proposal, and I hope and hope that the Chamber of Deputies will also do so, because this is a matter that will really help the community of owners, who often fight to keep their homes in a state of habitable for normal citizens, so that it can help deal with their difficult situation. I'm stressing, we're dealing with the thing that comes out to those housekeepers without wanting to do it without doing it on their own, but they have to deal with it. And this is a very sensible proposal that will help deal with the situation. I myself might go beyond the Senate proposal of 10 per cent, but of course that's not possible in the '90s, and it would probably trigger a big debate. I am glad that - as I have heard - there is a consensus that the government also supported this proposal. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u7	I thank Mr Fiedler. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. Please, Mr. Adamec. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u8	Thank you. Mr President, my colleague, Senator, ladies and gentlemen, I understand, of course, the reasons, because when I take it only by insolvency, I know how these insolvencys have always turned out. It's just the creditors who have been given priority, and the state has always chosen almost everything and it hasn't been for the rest, but here I understand that the owners or most of the owners or the community are a little innocent when someone just starts not fulfilling their obligations. And I think that the 10 percent, even if it expands, I would say that the group of preferred claims, that I do not understand this in principle, but in practical and pragmatic terms, I suppose I have no big problem with that. What bothers me is that we are expanding the circle of the preferred creditors again, but I think from the title that has already fallen here, that the communities are not getting into it entirely by their own fault that they can't influence it, so I would finally agree with this proposal and I would encourage us to approve this bill in the 90's in the present text. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u9	I thank Mr Adamc. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the senator, or the rapporteur. There is no interest and no objection. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I'm going to sign you all off, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the continuation of negotiations on the Houses of the Press 1108 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 201 vote, 104 Members of Parliament are logged in, sorry - 105. For 100, against none. The motion was accepted. [[15.50 hours]] The motion for a resolution was approved and it was decided to continue the negotiations. I therefore initiate a detailed debate which I do not register any application for. If no one reports for a detailed debate, I will conclude the detailed debate. Do I ask the final words of the appellant or the rapporteur, if any? [[They weren't interested.]] We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Senate Bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, and Act No. 26/2000 Coll., on public auctions, as amended and Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and its solutions, as amended, according to the House Press 1108." [[insolvency law]] Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote 202. 110 Members and Members are registered, for 108, against none. I state that consent has been given to the bill and that I am done with the hearing. I thank the Senator and the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u10	I really want to thank you for all the apartment owners. You've done an excellent thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-017-041.u11	Thank you. And the next point of our negotiations is
