ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u1	1. Assessment of the signature of the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic under memorandum with Australian coal miners for lithium mining in the sovereign territory of the Czech Republic Please have Mr Pavel Kováčik take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Madam Government, ladies and gentlemen, here in the pre-meeting of the priority rights before the beginning of this meeting - and I am pleased that the programme has been approved, and I thank everyone who voted for it. And I appreciate the three heroes who voted against because they're gonna be written down in history, definitely in gold letters, that they don't go with the crowd. But since there have been enough words here, both in my speech, two speeches, and in the President's speech, I refer to these two speeches as an introductory word and leave room for discussion to other colleagues who do not have priority rights, that is to say, to all others who have something else to say about the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u3	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering twelve applications. Mr Okamura will be the first to appear, Mr Radim Fiala will be prepared. [[Noise and screams in the hall.]] Before I give the floor to Mr Okamur, Vice-President Filip is given priority rights. I'll ask you to bear with me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay anything; I had it as a factual comment on the Prime Minister's speech. I'm not gonna apologize to him. Because if he'd listened to me, I wasn't talking about the fact that I was just referring here to the comment of Minister Havlíček. I responded to what he said in the Senate of Parliament of the Czech Republic. He said we wouldn't get back to tin ores until 2025. So I have nothing to apologize for, I didn't lie, and he should realize what he's saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u5	Thank you, too, and now Mr Okamura duly signed up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, let me start by stressing, on behalf of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, that from the outset we insist that lithium mining be ensured by a state company and all profits go into the budget of the Czech Republic, i.e. citizens of the Czech Republic. After the state has been told that it has lost control of the Chinese lithium, there is a firefight between the ANO and the ČSSD movement, who is to blame. From what has been said in previous speeches, it is clear that a small group of speculators actually acquired the right to lithium, who are still wondering what they will do with the wealth that has fallen into their laps. The Minister of the Interior is preparing a criminal complaint against the Ministry of the Environment. It is billions, and as for such sums, it must be said that the entire government is responsible. And it's everyone who's wasted these billions so shamefully. It was the previous ODS government, and especially the government managed by Mr Kalousek, which in 2010 gave the right to research lithium at the Cínovec private company, despite the fact that the land and mine belong to the state company. Let me give you a little quote from the CEO of Diamo State Company. I quote: "When a private person acquires a exploration area, he has a preferential right of extraction. The state can't enter any more. When it acquires Diamo's exploration territory, it can then prepare options for the government to deal with this mining right. The government will decide whether to benefit a private company or a state enterprise or together." End of quote from the CEO of Diamo State. The state of absolutely incomprehensible, apparently even corrupted by the decision of the party consisting of the ODS and TOP 09 lost the opportunity to decide what would happen to strategic raw materials in its territory. Of course, the following popular government, the ANO and the ČSSD movement did not attempt to solve the problem of stolen lithium, which activists, including us, have been alerting the SPD for years. So the butter on the head has all five of these sides. And it must be said that after OKD tweaking, Mr. Sobotka wrote down another gigantic notch, and that is the confirmation of the tunnel on Cínovec. Instead of trying to deal with the situation, the ČSSD aggravated this situation at the last minute before leaving for the post-election bench of shame by signing the memorandum. It was clear that the new government would try, by which I mean the new post-election government, to try to negotiate better conditions with a company that has a preferential right to mining. The Minister of the CSSD, whose name I don't even remember, and I don't want to know it, has prepared at the last minute a memorandum that is as sewn up for a possible arbitration if the State wants to withdraw from disadvantageous agreements. We have before the elections, and this case really is a exemplary example, which absolutely pregnantly illustrates why not vote again for those who are helping to rob this country so clearly, and it doesn't matter whether it's simply incompetence and stupidity or corruption and association with criminals. So when I briefly recapitulate the history of this lithium problem, it is involved in TOP 09, ODS, folklore, YES and ČSSD. Either way, ladies and gentlemen from all the government sides of the present and past, you owe citizens a few trillion crowns, and I am amazed by the insolence with which you have the courage to enter new and new governments again and again. What is needed now is, first of all, a deep legal audit of the state from the point of view of international law. It is also necessary to think about how to get the mining rights back, or at least to get the maximum of the natural wealth that originally belonged to all citizens of the Czech Republic. The state has two mining fees by law, for determining the conquering area and for earning the mineral. There is a possibility to set charges that could motivate a private person to leave the mining back to the state. And of course, as in the case of solar barons, it is possible for the House to set a special tax, which will at least return some of the proceeds from lithium to citizens. Last but not least, I would urge prosecutors and police officers to quickly start saving possible corruption, because what the Minister of Industry of the ČSSD did at the last minute is not a standard negotiation, and at the last minute he gave the private company a strong weapon against its own state. I consider it directly a criminal act which is absolutely incompatible with the position of a member of the Czech Government, who is in fact obliged to defend the interests of his state, i.e. the Czech Republic. Of course, it's foolish to want the government of a man who helped tweak the OKD. Paradoxically, the fact that this is actually a fraud and criminal act could reverse any litigation in favour of the Czech Republic. Finally, let me propose a resolution that we would like to vote on here in this House, i.e. resolution of our movement Freedom and direct democracy of the SPD, as amended by: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Czech Government to carry out the extraction of lithium in the Czech Republic and the profit from this extraction remains the income of the state budget of the Czech Republic. In case of further use of lithium, it is necessary to support projects ensuring its processing in the Czech Republic by business entities based in the Czech Republic. End of the text of our resolution. Finally, I would just like to add that any political competition cannot criticise that I am not going to vote on our resolution, so I am probably not going to be on it, because I am live at 20.00 on Czech Television in the pre-election debate, so I apologize in advance. If the debate extends for more than about 45 minutes, I will not be able to vote on our resolution, because the Czech Television has pointed out in advance that, despite the debate on lithium, we must come to the election debate. So I say in advance that we are proposing this resolution in the sense that I say, and I stress again that our SPD movement insists that lithium mining be secured by a state-owned company and all profits go into the budget of the Czech Republic, i.e. citizens of the Czech Republic. The content of the memorandum presented by the government and its predecessors is totally unacceptable to us. And it's a run-in on a tunnel and a fraud of the century. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u7	For the sake of order, I repeat only in accordance with the Rules of Procedure: it is important for the resolution to be voted on in detail, otherwise it is not possible to put the resolution to a vote. I'm registering a few factual remarks. I'll read the apology first. Today, from 18 o'clock to the end of the day, the Minister of the Interior, Milan Chovanec, apologizes for his duties within the Ministry of the Interior. Mr Šarapatka will now make a point of fact. Oh, okay. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I am one of the 200 Members who have been given the confidence of ten million of our citizens. I'm not going to discuss whether the memorandum is good or bad. It bothers me here that it was signed about us without us, behind our backs. It was done secretly. And I won't just blame Minister Havlíček, but the Prime Minister must have known about it, of course. And I consider it a contempt for ten million of these inhabitants of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, lithium is a mineral that makes our lives easier, but there's another mineral that's needed to live, and that's water. Fifteen years of water belongs, more or less distribution companies belong to foreign companies, so foreigners sell Czech water to Čech and profits flow elsewhere. Dear colleagues, don't you feel parallel here? I'm afraid this is the first step towards the next creepy privatization of our mineral resources into other people's hands. Colleagues, please think. Think of the vote when we will vote on annulment. I and our SPD movement will support this annulment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u9	Thank you. Now, Mr Korte, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. In the more than seven hours we've been here, we've heard a few questions about who's to blame. I think I have an answer. It's not my answer. Is the answer... This cardinal question was addressed by the important Hanspaul group Wooden Shoes in its song, whose chorus says... Don't worry, I won't sing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u11	I ask the Members not to shout at each other. And please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u12	Who's to blame? It's all Noh's Noh. Who else could've done it. That's the answer. And I think that's why we're here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u13	Thank you for your point of view. Next in order, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. I'll be really factual, unlike my colleagues. I'm going to leave all this nonsense, it was said here at the beginning by Mr. Okamura, about the various tunnels and the robberies and so on. But one thing in fact. This is where the trillions we're losing are constantly mumbling. What are the facts? On Cínovec there are 650 million tons of ore reserves, theoretical of course, which may contain up to 1.3 million tons of lithium. From this we can make - theoretically - 6.9 million tons of lithium carbonate, which is actually a product that is traded. It has a theoretical value of 1.5 trillion crowns, but only if he was lying there somewhere on a pile and we added the merchant and sold it to him on the spot. Because no one has ever devised a procedure that would have zero mining costs, zero adjustment costs, and still a hundred percent recovery. If Mr. Okamura has it, I'm challenging him here, and I'm proposing him for the Nobelův Prize, because that's the only way. The real profit from mining and from the adjustment that we can expect from the feasibility study is only around 0.5 billion per year. And just for the record, those 650 million tons of theoretical supplies, so that we could even extract them, we'd need more than 300 years a year at a capacity of 2 million tons. It's just for the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u15	Thank you. Just for the record, address the Member through me. Mr Radim Fiala will now appear and prepare Mr Jiří Hovorka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u16	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, before I come to what I actually have to say today, although I know that much has already been said, let me respond by your means to my colleague Zemk. It doesn't matter how many millions of tons there are, it doesn't matter how much money it makes and how much of it the Czech Republic will get. Even if it's one crown, there can't be such a circus around it, and we have to do it in a plan and we need to know what we want and what we're going for. Now allow me briefly on the whole case. In my opinion, it is always important to ask fundamental questions about the memorandum. First, why right now, and second, in what interest. I think the first question is a simple and easy answer. Right now, because he's a few days ahead of the election, because after the election, there might not be a minister who would sign this scoundrel again. The memorandum on lithium mining and processing is a matter which goes far beyond the responsibility of one single ministry. This is not a memorandum on cultural exchange. It is a document that addresses the issue of the Czech Republic's essential mineral wealth in huge financial value. And now whatever it is. Although everyone knows this, this document has been signed, and has been signed, as part of the coalition informs us, without the knowledge of the Czech government. The second question is in what interest. The answer is simple again. Certainly not in the interests of the Czech Republic. This document does not deal with the economic interest of the Czech Republic either. It only deals with the economic benefit and employment of the municipality of Cínovec. This document clearly expresses the situation where the use of the mineral wealth of the Czech Republic is in the hands of transnational interests. Those who have so far had illusions about the position of the Czech Republic, I think they must have lost them now. We are an economic colony that works for the profit of multinational companies and banks. And our mineral wealth does not serve us, but it is literally ploughed through political parties in a foreign, something else's interest. It is important to say that, on the basis of a memorandum, the Czech Republic will suffer damage even if this memorandum is - let us all believe - rejected by the new government. There is no doubt that the memorandum provides a legal basis for possible arbitration against the Czech Republic. So we only have two options. To accept that the profits of lithium mining will be stolen from the Czech Republic or risk arbitration, which can and will probably be very expensive for the Czech Republic. For the SPD, I can say that we're voting for a second option. The Czech Republic must not let the proceeds from lithium mining be stolen. If the arbitration loses on the basis of this memorandum, the person who got the Czech Republic into this situation must be responsible for this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies. Today from 18.30 to the end of the day, Mr Jiří Běhounek apologizes and today from 19.30 for personal reasons, Mr František Adámek apologizes for today's meeting. With a point of fact, Mr Zemek is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u18	Thank you, thank you. I have to react again. Whether there's a crown gain or not. I think the purpose of mining is and has always been profit. No one's going to benefit from the loss. Not even a state. I mean, why would anyone benefit from loss? And what's the real benefit to the state is jobs. The follow-up production, taxes and fees, and salaries. There's a gros we can make on it. And that's what this is all about. Where the subsequent sophisticated production will be, for example, battery production. We can make money off that, not lithium mining. That's an illusion. As I figured out here to get the trillions, we'd have to benefit from it for 300 years. And in 300 years, no one's gonna want lithium, so there'll be other technologies. Please let us be aware of that. And only if I wanted to fabulate or speculate about who it was for the benefit of, for example, the multinational Rio Tinto Group, which has taken hold on Jadar in Serbia, is, of course, a thorn in the eye to mine and process lithium in the Czech Republic. Why would I? They're gonna make those productions! Why would they pay here, why would they tolerate any competition here in the Czech Republic? If I wanted to fabulate here, I'd say that maybe my colleagues here are in this group's mercenary. But I will not do as many other speculations do here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will now prepare Mrs Miroslava Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, Mining of Minerals in the Czech Republic suffers from several serious defects that make the Republic often Klondajk. The future coal miner is hoarding the territory and the administrator will provide it for the notice from which the owner of the raw material, this is the Czech Republic, has almost nothing. Though mineral wealth is her property. We are now watching this live on the subject of future lithium extraction. The main question is, and there is no solution in the memorandum why it is signed with EMH when the Czech company Geomet obtained the research licence. It is argued that EMH is the owner of Geomet. But what happens if someone else buys Geomet? Then the minister closes another memorandum with another owner of Geomet? What are references with similar mining of EMH? According to their website, they have no other project. Why is a partner of the Czech Republic a company without references to mining anything? EMH does not have any references to any ore, let alone lithium. EMH did not introduce cinvaldite processing technology. The development of technology takes place at the University of Chemical Technology in Prague, Institute of Metal Materials and Corrosion Engineering, which is not used anywhere in the world on an industrial scale. So what leads to the signing of a memorandum without any discussion 19 days before the end of the term of office of the Chamber of Deputies? At this point, questions are essential about who is really a company that has obtained a mining licence and how it is possible to ensure that as much of the production and processing as possible remains in the Czech Republic and how to ensure the State's greatest share of profits. In my opinion, the effective setting of a solution that would be beneficial for the state is a question of broad and long discussion, which must necessarily be public. Since the problem is complicated, it seems very strange that the Minister will sign a rather important document without discussion concerning the entire case without openly consulting the matter in the government. Or better yet, which would be consulted first in the House. Although this document does not have a clear legal obligation, it should be borne in mind that it applies to us according to general legislation so called. pre-contractual liability, which can also be enforced by the courts. In this case, the possibility of potential arbitrage and abuse of the memorandum by a private entity, Australian company can therefore be considered. The effort of European Metals Holdings to launch arbitration against the Czech Republic under the 1991 Agreement between the Czech Republic and Australia on mutual support and protection of investments cannot be completely excluded. And those examples from the past, when similar agreements on investment protection were used and the Czech Republic had to pay for arbitration, here are the examples. And the memorandum explicitly refers in one of its articles to this 1991 Investment Protection Agreement. That's a serious matter. From the discussion that has been here, from what the ministers have said, even the Prime Minister, I am aware of several facts. During our service nothing special happened, the memorandum is not binding. The MIT is making excuses for the Ministry of the Environment that it could no longer do anything because the relevant permissions of the Ministry of the Environment for the survey have already been granted. The Ministry of the Environment refers to the authorisation issued by local officials. Everyone is making excuses for the applicable upper law that they must act in accordance with the law. But no one here was interested in dealing with a change in the upper law. The Upper Law has been in the House several times during this parliamentary term. He's been adapting on important points twice lately. Print 731 of 27. 6. 2012. The debate was only about the division of charges between mining of the municipalities concerned, the sharing of revenues with the state and the remediation of environmental burdens and the reclamation fund. No one saw anything but coal and mining limits. The MIT apparently did not know about the issue of setting prices for strategic raw materials at that time. The Economic Committee invited Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček. He directly had the opportunity to influence the Members and change the law. But in that sense, no proposal has been made. The rate of remuneration shall not exceed 10 per cent of the market price per unit of quantity for each type of mineral obtained. On the basis of the amendment of two of our colleagues who fixed the five-year remuneration rates, the rates were de facto fixed. A certain turnover occurred only in the Government resolution of 14 June 2017 on the raw materials policy of the Czech Republic in the field of minerals and their resources. This was already clear that these bearings had to be protected and ensured effective control of mining and exploration by the state. The development of prices on commodity exchanges in segments of valuable raw materials such as cobalt, zirconium, titanium, gold, lithium, uranium, and I want to emphasise rubidium and cesium, is very attractive. Prices of pure raw materials are commonly available on the Internet. The cost of accompanying rubidium and cesia metals is higher than lithium and further increasing. But these other elements are not mentioned in the memorandum, and even here it didn't sound very much. Next thing. The company Cínovecká deponie, controlled by the investment group RSJ billionaire and philanthropist Karel Janeček, received the last permit from the Mining Authority to mine lithium from the excavation site in Krušnohorský Cínovec in October 2016. The state-owned company Diamo sold it at a ridiculous price. It's a two-billion-dollar lithium mine. Currently, the occurrence of rubidium and cesium in fractions obtained by size sorting from the halls remaining after tungsten mining is mapped. European Metals owns 100 percent of lithium Tinovec projects in the Czech Republic through its 100% subsidiary Geomet. Tin is a historical mine that contains a significant undeveloped source of lithium and tin with by-product of tungsten, rubidium, scandium, niobium, cobalt and potash. The company praises itself in its annual report by gaining control of the site on Cínovec, admitting that it knows about these bonuses. They will prepare for the mining work, they will build crushing lines and thousands of tons will pass through separation processes. You get what you don't even talk about today. [[18.40 hours]] Dear colleagues, please support the resolution proposed by KDU-ČSL, which will bind the government and give recommendations to the new House on how to take care of profits for the Czech Republic. And it really doesn't have to be just negligible. Let us create a state fund for the future so that the proceeds of mineral wealth are deposited into a special account and used then for strategic objectives that have long-term importance for the prosperity and stability of the Czech Republic. We are not a developing country in poor Africa managed by sales tribal chiefs. We are a national community with a long-term tradition. Let us also demonstrate in this way that we understand what is common good. I would, because it didn't come out, have asked for an answer to two more questions. First, why it was necessary to sign the memorandum so shortly before the elections. That's what I'd like to hear from the Minister, maybe. from the Prime Minister. And the second question is, how did the price of the earned mineral be determined, because we know that the price is very low because it's actually a concentrated extracted material. These are my matters and I again recommend the adoption of the resolution proposed by the KDU-ČSL. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, too. Before we continue to discuss this, it is important to identify the rapporteur. As the first performer was Mr Okamura, he left, as the next envoy was Mr Radim Fiala. I see that he agrees, but in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we must agree that he is the rapporteur. I will therefore interrupt the Chamber of Deputies for two minutes and ask that you call Members to vote on the rapporteur. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 18.41 to 18.44 hours.]] Madam, ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up. I'm going to ask you to take your seats in your benches so the scrutinists and scrutinists can count how many of us are in the hall. [[After a while.]] I'll ask you to take your seats. And I'm going to ask you to raise your hands so that you can count the number of Members and Members in the Chamber. [[It's adding up.]] Members present are 87, the quorum is 44. I shall therefore vote that Mr Radim Fiala be the rapporteur for this press. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand. [[Count.]] Who's against the proposal? Please, we can count. The result of the vote (number 5) is that, for a proposal of 87 Members, no one. I will ask Mr Radim Fiala to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. With a point of fact, I had Mr Benešík registered here. He's present. Please, you have the floor. [[18.50 hours]] With a point of fact, I had Mr Benešík registered here. He's present. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u22	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I signed up with a point of fact because I had no choice. I listened to the discussion before, and it seemed to me that when all the clubs, apart from the KDU-ČSL Club, supported the proposal a month ago, which went to the hands of the miners, so that they would have a fixed price for five years, some of them would have downplayed it. That doesn't deserve to be bagged. This is a very important matter. And if we have so many defenders of the Czech national wealth who deserve this defense, then the elector should also know that when it comes to the real vote on the real law, it is not for the miners, but it defends the interests of the Czech voters. And in this case, it was only KDU-ČSL. No one else. You can all read the satin vote. From Tomio Okamura through ODS, TOP 09, ČSSD, YES and KSČM - all supported a five-year period for which no price changes. I wouldn't bagage this. I believe everyone will do it because they just have butter on their heads. WHETHER-WHL doesn't have butter on his head, so he can afford to say it out loud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u23	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First, Mr Kučera, then Mr Zemek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u24	Thank you for the floor. That is what it is called to shoot yourself in the knee live, Mr Benešík, through Mr President. I would like to point out that it was just KDU-ČSL that went to the miners' hands and supported the breach of mining limits in the Czech Republic. It was the People's Ministers who supported breaking the mining limits and went to the miners. And it was the People's Ministers in the Government of YES, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL who supported the reduction of lithium fees in the payment decree, which is laid down by the Government's regulation. It was your government. You were part of that government, virtually. your side. So please don't say who's what, who's on whose arm. Because if anyone is responsible for the current state of affairs, it's the current government. And you are part of it, Mr Benešík, through Mr President. You and your party people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u25	Thank you. I note other factual points: first Mr Zemek, Mr Benešík, Minister Jurečka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u26	Thank you. I don't want to judge who voted for what. I didn't vote for it because I'm a member of the committee. However, when we realize that if the company theoretically got a mining permit before it started, it would take about five years. And then we can change it. So we're arguing about nonsense here. Why are we arguing here? That's just nonsense. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u27	Thank you. Now, Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u28	Well, the alliance is obvious. Me about the goat, gentlemen about the wagon. I'm talking about the law itself. Of course, the five-year deadline doesn't go far and just for lithium. That goes for everything. And why is someone here supposed to have a guaranteed price and terms for five years? And with that lithium is only and only a litmus paper, when we see that over time over months or perhaps few years, definitely within five years, the price of these raw materials is changing. And the fact that this vote was of course beneficial for the miners and not for the Czech Republic and taxpayers is evident. And the fact that I'm being attacked by gentlemen from one side and the other side, of course, that's what I was expecting. I am talking about voting in the Chamber of Deputies, not the government. That's why I say one about a goat, the other about a wagon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u29	Thank you. Now Minister Jurečka. Mr Opálka and others will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u30	Beautiful evening. I did not want to talk, I think that the debate was off limits, but I must say that Mr Kučera urged me to do this, because I am clearly convinced that the vote on the fixation for five years was one of the votes where it was tested, how Members feel about defending the national interests of this state. Because it does not concern, as Mr Benešík has just said, only lithium, but many other minerals that are mined in the Czech Republic. And fixing fees for five years in a situation where commodity markets can change quite significantly doesn't strike me as responsible for the approach of legislators who are now fighting in the breasts here that they want to defend the interests of this state. I was one of the five Members in this House, who therefore voted quite clearly openly against it, and then I also spoke out and I drew your attention to the discussion that this vote on the fixation of five years is not a responsible vote. And to Mr Kučer through Mr President, when he accused us here, the government that we have broken the limits and where we defend national interests. Well, we only broke them at one single mine with a fixation of 500 meters from the house. And look, Mr Kučera, through Mr President, who owns the mine. The mine belongs to ČEZ, which is majority owned by the Czech state. So in this case too, when the decision was not easy, it was ultimately a decision that was in the interest of this state when we were talking about the financial proceeds from the extraction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u31	Thank you, too. Next up, Mr Opálka, Mr Kučera will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, almost all the political clubs have been accused here that we have come to the hands of the miners because we have extended or set a deadline of five years. You know, that's two different things. A fee that is not in our power, and then the prospect of a miner who must invest and who must also be certain. Tell me the field where not only mining is rented, but also anything else from year to year. I don't think that's where you'd be looking for a partner to make a deal and make a deal. Let's not mix the two things together. They don't have anything to do with each other. The shit's on the side that the government did with the reduction in the fee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u33	As another Mr Kučera with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor. As much as I hate to say, I have to agree with my previous speaker from the Communist Party, because he was right in this case. And to my colleagues on the part of the people, as well as how anyone runs or starts or supports the miners, I would like to remind them how they voted in those incriminating votes in the amendment to the Upper Law on how much money should be left in the region. I will remind you that I have tabled an amendment to ensure that the crop charge is evenly distributed between the municipality, the region to which mining has the fundamental effects, whether it be coal mining, whether it be lithium mining or whatever else, and the state budget. The municipality, the county and the state budget. Against this resolution, Members voted against this proposal by the people, Mr Benešík, through Mr President. You took money from the Ústí Region. It was you who took the money from the Ústí Region, from the brown coal, from the lithium that's going to benefit there, and you let them into the state budget, and you're going to feed those civil servants that you raised in numbers during your government. So thanks to you, the Ústí Region will have no money, there will be negative impacts of mining, and the money will go into the state budget, where it will pass, as you have been eating it for four years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u35	Next, Mr Benešík, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u36	I didn't take any money from any county. I voted more or less for the budgetary determination of taxes, for example, to the municipalities that make up the regions. And that's where it comes in. And otherwise, I'm not surprised that the TOP 09 and the KSČM are converging here. I experienced this as a member of the KDU-ČSL in 2006, when the current Chairman of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, then President of the KDU-ČSL, proposed a government with the support of communists. That's why he ended up at the head of the KDU-ČSL. Gentlemen, you may have artillery preparation here for something similar, but leave us out of this discussion. Thank you. The cooperation of former KDU-ČSL members, today at TOP 09, and KSČM is a long time ago for us. These people are in the top 09, not the KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u37	Wishing you a good evening is a bit of a contradiction, but good evening. With another factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. After that, Mr. Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u38	Until recently, I respected my previous speaker, Mr Benešík, for his discretion. What he's done here at the moment, it's not even populism, it's the pinnacle of embarrassment. I am sorry, Mr Benešík, through Mr President, that you are so low on something. I was saying pretty clear facts here, when you voted against the interest of the county, when you voted for the miners, and they are absolutely facts. You guys are bringing up feelings and some historical experience. I feel very, very sorry for you. I really don't understand how you can go down on something like this, how you can go down on some personal attacks. This is all from my side on a material level. Please, if you haven't voted in favour of the resolution that the Ústí Region isn't supposed to receive money, then please deny it. I think everyone can see that. Both you and, of course, the majority of the members of the government coalition voted. If you didn't vote for the government to cut the lithium charges. [[Voices from the O.R.]] You voted, yes, so please disprove, if not, and proceed factually. And you have some historical experience here. I really feel sorry for you, Mr Benešík, through Mr President, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. Mr Fiedler, Mr Benešík after him. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't mean to make a point of fact, but the debate before me led me to do it. If I understand it correctly, I think it bothers the KDU representatives that the fees, where, as we have heard here several times, they have contributed to the vote that they have been reduced, so it bothers you that it is only for five years. You guys probably wanted it for a long time. How are we supposed to understand that? And speaking of the problem that this meeting is now held four or five days before the elections, she could have been held much earlier, because I proposed a meeting point of the Chamber of Deputies for the first time on 27 June of this year. Of course, the votes of the government coalition, including the KDU, including Mr Benešík, who voted against us dealing with this. It was similar on July 11, when the parties to the government coalition once again voted over my proposal to address the subject of lithium, let's say, in time before a memorandum was signed, where we had not yet learned why it had been signed. Colleagues, touch your own conscience as you voted. Am I supposed to read here who voted? The parties to the government coalition have refused to let us deal with the subject of lithium before. That's the truth. Don't play that comedy with voters before the election tonight!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u41	I thank Mr Fiedler. With a factual remark, Mr Benešík. After that, with a factual remark, Mr Kučera. I had a reminder here. Please report to the actual notes by letter F. Thank you. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. All I wanted to say was that I didn't say any of my impressions here. I was talking here based on the fact of 2006. That's just the way it was. It's not my impression, it's just a reality that's simply traceable. I know that it is quite difficult for TOP 09 to swallow this because Miroslav Kalousek is the chairman of the TOP 09 now and the largest communist in the Czech Republic. In 2006 we thought so in KDU-ČSL too, it was roughly until the elections, then we found that it really wasn't. I know this is hard for you. Personally, it was hard for me back then, too. I had to deal with it, I dealt with it. I believe that you will also deal with this, through Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u43	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u44	I see that this is where fellow Benešík has actually decided to commit political suicide. I really can't comment on what could have happened in 2006 if this had happened because it didn't happen. But what I can really comment on is that it is Mr. Benešík and his party the people who broke the bill of illustration and which, for the first time in history since 1989, has allowed the Minister, even the Minister of Finance, a man without a clerk and who is in government with a man who is probably an agent of StB, a man who is probably not, but who is criminally prosecuted. With this man, Mr Benešík, through the President, the People's Party is ruling. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u45	That was the last point of fact so far. Mrs Miroslava Němcová has now duly signed up for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u46	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. I will try to be as brief as possible because I agree with what Zbyněk Stanjura, chairman of the Civic Democratic Party Club, has said here about the feeling that this is more than anything else in the election meeting, and it is not in my interest to prolong it in any way. However, the current course, in particular the introductory words, on which those who do not have the right to express themselves, did not give me the opportunity to make a factual comment, led me to write down a few factual remarks. It's four o'clock, and I promise it won't be long. First of all, the question that is often mentioned here is how it is possible that the memorandum was signed just ten or fourteen days before the elections, as a question that proves to be the most inconvenient. I would like to remind you as a memorial that we had here in 2010 a meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which was the only day before the elections. The meeting was lobbied to overrule the veto of the President of the Republic, then Václav Klaus, so that the proportion of the biofuels in petrol and diesel would increase from June of that year. There were elections in May, and this folder was due to be increased as early as June. The citation from Hospodářské noviny of 28 May 2010 reads as follows: "It was possible to lobby one day before the elections and celebrates even the largest farmer in the Czech Republic, billionaire Andrej Babiš, whose Agrofert produces not only rape, grain for biofuels, but also produces biodiesel himself." The comment goes on as follows: President of the Agrarian Chamber Jan Veleba describes the whole event as it could have been that one day before the elections, the House met and made such a serious year. He describes it as follows: "It was standard procedure. I have sent letters to the heads of our regional chambers to contact Members in their regions. I also approached some myself, such as the Vice-President of ČSSD Bohuslav Sobotka, and this time there was also great cooperation with Agrofert. I've been communicating with Babiš, and I know that he's been working very hard on everything. In contrast to the vast majority of other entrepreneurs, Andrej Babiš himself speaks openly about lobbying. Yes, I lobbied for biofuels, I called some Members. I'm not afraid to say my views out loud." So the conclusion is this. If one day before the election what served the business of Mr. then only the entrepreneur Andrej Babiš, it was okay that it took place one day before the election, suddenly the memorandum that was signed, and definitely the memorandum is completely different from the law, it was signed 14 days before the election and it is in a mess. Which means I don't stand up for memoranda. I'm not a lawyer, I can't judge all aspects and what this may mean for the Czech Republic. From that is the government, this even will still be the office until a new government is appointed, and therefore has relatively some time left for it to obtain legal opinions and decide on steps that can avert potential risks. But the conclusion is clear. If it was good for Andrej Babiš once, it can't be second-guessed as something completely immoral. [[19.10 hours]] Second comment, on the memorandum itself. I was listening not only to Andrej Babiš here, but also Mr. Faltýnek talks about the fact that it will probably not just be that the Minister of Industry and Trade does not sign something that is called. Nothing that's just a blank piece of paper doesn't tie us to anything. And so I looked at the document published by the Slovak Institute of Memory of the Nation, which published a list of documents relating now to the trial which was decided by the Constitutional Court of the Slovak Republic in the last act, and here is a list of documents signed with engineer Andrej Babiš. There is a first proposal to obtain cooperation, a second document report on obtaining cooperation, a third letter of illustration, a fourth commitment to cooperation, a fifth memorandum. Then it ends, when the 15th is the evaluation of secret cooperation, in the meantime, it's kind of like a place of residence, which is probably something in the jargon of the day that they've decided and made a deal. But this memorandum as the fifth document means that being Prime Minister, I would not take lightly the words of the former Minister of Finance that it would probably not be about anything, because who else should know that signing a memorandum means something serious. Third point. The memoirs in general. I remember when the Chinese President was here, and the Prague Castle was used as an astronomical clock by individual ministers of the Czech government, and there were dozens of memorabilia signed there. No one really knew what, even the Minister of Culture was telling the media at the time that he had learned that they were signing a memorandum of culture at the Castle, but that he himself was not familiar with them and did not know anything about them. So if, on the one hand, the criticism is that the government has not been informed about the lithium memorandum, I would like to know which of the memorandums the government has adopted over the past four years. I think some memoranda have also been signed on defense. I'd be quite interested to know if the various ministers were to speak here and say how many memoranda their department has signed over the four years. We would put it on the one hand, on the other hand, what they signed famously in front of the Číňan in Prague Castle, and we would find out, for example, what the sums are, and if something quite extraordinary has happened now. And again, I'm not here as an arbiter of Minister Havlíček, it's certainly a failure of the entire government and of the Minister of the Environment. If he says the letter wasn't right, that he looked at him and told his clerk that he couldn't leave like this, then I'm gonna ask, "What's next? I'm sure the Minister of the Environment, when he found out that it was all so horribly wrong and so risky, he informed his Prime Minister. Isn't it? He did not tell him that a signature had been submitted to him, a proposal, and that it seemed to him that it was therefore absolutely serious, full of risks, and that is why he warned, which is why he is pounding on the door, so he calls quickly for extraordinary government action, so does he simply propose any steps? Well, he didn't do anything. Now he's doing a big show here. The last point, I mentioned it at the beginning, concerns colleagues from KDU-ČSL. When they were talking about how they saved the upper law - or they were the only ones, but we all contributed to the victory of these mining companies, I would like to tell them the very fundamental questions when Mr Mihola here says, "Will you, I hope, report your vote to your supporters?" Vice-President of the House of Bartošek: Compare this in your own conscience. Babiš is not only a suspect of moral failure. Well, does the Vice-President know now that he's a suspect? And did he know that at the time he voted that ministers might not have a clean illustration certificate? You, fellow KDU-ČSL colleagues, will report on your vote, I hope, to a meeting with your supporters. And I hope you'll compare it in your conscience, too. That was a few of my notes, ladies and gentlemen. I don't think a meeting four days before the election can bring any reasonable conclusions. I have arrived at it because it is my duty, we are paid by Members and our electoral mandate is ongoing, and therefore we have to do our job, but I do not think that this thing, which is politicised, escalated, will move any of our negotiations, no matter what conclusion it adopts, to some extent. I'm very sorry this theater is happening. Thank you all for your attention and I would hope, but I dare not say that even with a slight certainty in the voice that the situation can be better after the election. I'm afraid not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u47	Thank you, Mrs Němcová. Minister Jurečka apologizes today from 7:00 p.m. for work reasons. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely sorry to keep you away from the subject for three minutes, but I simply cannot respond to the total indecency that Mr. Ondřej Benešík, a fellow Member, made here when he said that I had to end up in KDU-ČSL after negotiating with President Paroubek in 2006. I'd like to tell you, I never thought it would be him who was an active politician at the time. As a result of my negotiations at the time, and it is traceable in open sources, the government of ČSSD and KDU-ČSL was not supported by communists, but it was the central-right Government of Topolánkův, where I had the honour of being Minister of Finance at the request of President Topolánek and at the request of my then party KDU-ČSL, and I held office until the fall of the Government of Topolánkův, including being President of the Council of European Union Finance Ministers as a Minister for KDU-ČSL. I don't know any political party where a person has to end up becoming Minister of Finance and is in office throughout the mandate of that government. In 2009, I left the KDU-ČSL series not because I negotiated something in 2006, but because I lost hope that my party would be part of the Christian Democratic Party because it simply insisted on being socialists going to church. That after I founded the TOP 09, KDU-ČSL created its own legend about the reasons for my leaving KDU-ČSL, it's just their thing and I don't blame them. However, the whole party knew why I did it, Prime Minister Topolánek knew why I did it, and that is why they asked me to be the Minister of Finance in that government, which, among other things, was due to this. Today, when I get blamed by aesthebians or journalists who went to primary school at that time, I still understand, and I'm not even talking about it anymore. When I am blamed by members of the People's Party, who were already active politicians at the time and remember well how it was and why it was, it is shameful and I want to publicly oppose this indecency when it was publicly spoken out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u49	Thank you to President Kalousek. With a factual remark, Mr Benešík. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u50	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. I've been accused of indecency here. I haven't talked about Miroslav Kalousek in four years. I wasn't talking about him until today. In 2006, I was a member of the KDU-ČSL Regional Committee. Evaluate yourself, you who are in political parties, how much it is or is not an influential function. I didn't say, I insist on it, or if the tape screen shows otherwise, I'm fixing it now that Miroslav Kalousek left KDU-ČSL in 2006. Miroslav Kalousek, and I said this repeatedly, was forced to leave the post of President of KDU-ČSL in 2006. That while he was a member of KDU-ČSL, he was building another project, it is also true, but that is of course his thing. Of course, I did not want to raise this discussion. And the fact that KDU-ČSL members at least at the regional level, as I was, knew the truth about negotiating with someone or not negotiating with someone... Let me be clear, we had information that he was willing to support the government of KDU-ČSL, social democracy with the support of KSČM. That is why we invited Miroslav Kalousek to resign in the Zlín Region, which ultimately led to this result. [[19.20 hours]] I don't know what shame I said, in my opinion, none at all. I described things the way they were. And the interesting thing is, at least at least in your party and in the movements, you choose those people from your own ranks as ministers, or you reach for a non-partisan. For me, it is interesting information that Miroslav Kalousek, as a member of the KDU-ČSL, has chosen Prime Minister of the ODS and designed Prime Minister Mirek Topolánek for the ODS. That's really news to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u51	Thank you. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Josef Hájek, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u52	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will return a little bit to the topic of today's meeting, because today's extraordinary meeting of the Chamber of Deputies is called to assess the signature of the Minister of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic under a memorandum with Australian coal miners on the sovereign territory of the Czech Republic. The risks that this signature brings to the Czech Republic by Minister Havlíček are mentioned in a number of comments by economists and politicians and I assume that other speakers will mention them in their speeches. Minister Havlíček joined his ministerial office on 4 April this year and already in two months, exactly 14 June, the government on his proposal, his Ministry of Industry and Trade, approved a document entitled Surovinová policy of the Czech Republic in the field of mineral resources and their resources. On the website of the Ministry of Industry and Trade it is stated that this document has completed the process of updating the Czech state raw materials policy continuously since 2012, with its own approval process lasting almost a year and a half. In this context, the Ministry of Industry and Trade further states that this update of the Czech Republic's raw materials policy has been prepared - I quote - "with the ambition to develop a coherent strategy for the next 15 years, which sets limits for the use of mineral resources both from domestic and foreign sources." End of quote. In this context, I was wondering what strategy and boundaries the MIT set for the extraction and processing of lithium for the next 15 years. In the 76-page document of raw materials policy of the Czech Republic is called. hi-tech raw materials dedicated to the words of twenty lines, of which lithium four lines, which I dare quote. "At present it is possible to register the interest of private investors in certain locations. As an example of a promising hi-tech raw material with potential in the Czech Republic we can mention lithium, which is located mainly in the Czech Republic in the Ore Mountains. Around 300 miles have been identified in the area of Tinovka and its surroundings in the past. tonnes of ores with increased lithium content.' The end of the quote and the end of everything mentioned in this lithium report. So if this is a coherent state strategy to exploit lithium for the next 15 years, I'm not surprised we're in the field of mineral resources by the banana republic. Our state has largely lost control of the water market. In the case of brown coal, mining profits were used to privatise the Mostec coal company, not for the benefit of citizens and taxpayers. In the case of coal coal, the scenario was similar to that in Mostecký coal, with only the difference that Bakal managed to tundle significantly higher amounts from OKD. In this context, it is good to remember and ask what political representation the state represented at the time of privatisation of Mostecká uhelná or OKD. The answer is simple: the Czech Party has always been socially democratic. When we were discussing a disadvantageous privatisation of OKD here in the Chamber of Deputies for nine months, the Prime Minister explained to us that he had no choice but to sell a 46 percent share of the state because the state lost its majority in OKD due to the wild privatisation. If this 46 percent share of the state of OKD was sold below the price, the court should decide sometime next January, however, tens of billions of OKD's output from Bakal will unfortunately never return to the Czech Republic. We are gathered here today at an extraordinary meeting to prevent, in my opinion, a repetition of a scenario that could deprive our citizens of profiting from the extraction and processing of our mineral wealth, in this case lithium. The signing of the Memorandum of Understanding between the MIT and European Metals Holdings Ltd. in the field of lithium mining and processing has led to a global discussion on this issue, and that is, from my point of view, a good thing. If this discussion had not been initiated, the citizen would not have learned that the company with which the MIT signed the memorandum has its registered office in the British Virgin Islands, that is, in a tax haven, where there is zero tax on profits. Citizens would also not know that the shareholders of this Australian company are largely anonymous. The taxpayer would also probably not know that the Ministry of Industry and Trade for the lithium commodity has set a fee for the acquired mineral at 0.66% of the final price of lithium, although the upper law allows for a fee of up to 10 percent of the final price. We could lose up to 9.5 billion on Tin Man bearing alone. Crowns. Thanks to this whole social debate and social pressure, the MIT was forced to quickly process material called Report on the need to safeguard the economic interests of the state in the area of critical EU superstrategic raw materials and some other raw materials, which Minister Jiří Havlíček presented to the government on Wednesday, 11 October. I repeat, Wednesday, October 11th. In connection with this report, the MIT states on the website of its Ministry - I quote: "At present, the interest of mining organisations is increasing in the use of exclusive bearings of EU superstrategic raw materials such as cobalt, tungsten and lithium, and it was therefore necessary to protect their future use for the benefit of the State without the need for immediate legislative changes. The necessary changes to mining legislation but also raw materials policies are time-consuming and these raw materials have special economic potential for the Czech Republic. Therefore, there is no choice but to adopt the bearings of strategic raw materials of the Czech Republic with higher control of the state in the public interest to enforce quickly," Minister Jiří Havlíček added. The material defines unforgettable conditions for the fulfilment of public interest in the acquisition of strategic raw materials deposits in the Czech Republic and in the draft Government resolution it is imposed to implement these conditions into the raw materials policy of the Czech Republic in the field of mineral raw materials. The Government resolution was also supplemented by a new point, which is the processing of material for government meetings with an analysis of the possibility to participate in the potential production and processing of lithium in the territory of the Czech Republic by Diamo. This material is to be submitted by the MPO to the Government by 15 November 2017. So much for the quote from the Ministry of Industry and Trade website. In connection with this initiative by Minister Havlíček, who only started after the general public became interested in the fate of lithium, I will allow me to politely ask why these strategies and principles, which concern the protection of the interests of the Czech Republic in the field of superstrategic raw materials and thus lithium, were not processed by your Ministry four months earlier, so that they could be included in the state's raw materials policy. Was it a coincidence, intent or negligence that such an important material, which is undoubtedly the state's raw material policy, which is designed to create a state strategy with a 15-year outlook, lacks strategies and concepts for the acquisition and exploitation of lithium and other superstrategic raw materials? There are hundreds of billions of crowns in play here, which is why I don't believe in coincidences like this. [[19.30 hours]] In this context, your words that by approving the state's raw material policy, a coherent strategy has been developed for the next 15 years, which has also set limits for the use of mineral resources, are an empty phrase and a warning for me to be alert in the case of lithium. In my opinion, due to the lack of state strategy and the missing constraints, lithium could repeat the same scenario, which led the state to lose its majority in brown and black coal mining. In the field of mineral resources, it must be treated with proper care. This does not in any way mean that the private sector is not in a position to enter into business in this area. On the other hand, the state must guarantee citizens, as in Norway or Germany, that both the miner and the state will profit from the extracted mineral resources. This has not happened in the case of OKD, especially in the case of OKD. It is a challenge both for us politicians and for the officials concerned. The state and its apparatus must be more flexible. And this is not just about mineral resources. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u53	I thank Mr Hájek. With priority rights, Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade. Please, Minister. Then a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I will only briefly respond to Mr Hájek and to some of the other speeches and topics that have been raised here. I will therefore take this from the end to the point of view of Mr Hájek concerning raw materials policy. I have already mentioned this here in my opening speech, how in a rather difficult way the state raw material policy was born into the world. Indeed, the work that started on it at some point in 2012 really took five years to change the raw materials policy of the Czech Republic. Again, the government took only note of raw material policy in the first half of 2016. There was a rather complicated lengthy process of the SEA, in which it is no longer possible to change the text of the raw materials policy itself, and the government adopted - I think, after a rather good consensus, and I want to thank colleagues from the Ministry of the Environment for having managed to push a number of accompanying resolutions into the raw materials policy, which actually strengthen the state's position in the field of exploration and subsequent extraction. I would like to say how the Member here spoke of the urgent approval by the Government of our report last Wednesday on the need to safeguard the interests of the state in the field of strategic and critical raw materials - Mr President, by your means, Mr President, it has certainly not been approved suddenly, it has not been presented suddenly. Every government material has a process of processing itself. This material has been processed at the Ministry of Industry and Trade since the end of June this year. There was a proper reminder procedure. So it's definitely not that this material reacts to the media shrink that appeared in the public space after the signature of the memorandum that took place 2. 10. That's total nonsense, and I really reject it. With regard to some of the other speeches that have been made here, I would like to respond to those topics that I did not comment on in my rather extensive presentation at the beginning. I would just like to repeat it again, and I repeat it here again on microphone, the memorandum is not legally binding for the Czech Republic. This was confirmed simply by the authorities of our best state universities - Charles University, Masaryk University in Brno and Olomouc University. These people, academics who lecture international law at these universities, confirmed this on the camera of Czech Television. So I would really trust those who teach this field to their students. Notabene preparation of the memorandum took place with the participation of lawyers - specialists in international law - both from the Ministry of Industry and Trade and after the working level his text was consulted with experts from the Ministry of Finance who have the issue of international arbitration in their work. The Ministry of Finance represents the State in this. So from this point of view, I would like to reiterate that the memorandum is not legally binding. It is not an agreement, it is not a treaty and there are no obligations for the Czech Republic. So what do we have a memorandum for? I'm gonna say it again, and I've already said it here in my opening act. This memorandum only opens the way to the Czech state to participate again in the project of potential lithium mining on Cínovec. That's really it. What form and if at all, must be decided by the government, of course. This is not decided by the Minister of Industry and Trade, and it is not decided by the memorandum we signed. This memorandum creates only the possibility, I repeat again, what form and when and if at all, must be decided by the government. There are a number of possibilities, such as the question of creating a joint venture or the question of capital entry, or the question of the contribution to the land project, which the state still owns at this point in the locality. These are all things that must be the subject of serious discussion with the government. The only one who can decide is the government. With regard to the system of payments for extracted minerals, I would like to say that my statement, which I have already given in this matter, applies, and that this current government was the first government to mention the rate of payments for elements such as lithium in its government's regulation, because so far - yes, lithium was a 10% rate, but that was set within the whole general group of ores, the rate of 10 per cent. It paid a relatively complicated formula for the calculation of the final levy and it was necessary to change this system. The government has decided to change this system, to determine for each element a specific amount for the extracted volume of this mineral raw material. From this point of view, I think the government has done the right thing. That currently the table, respectively. for some raw materials, the levies do not correspond to the reality of the market, that's another thing. I would just like to quote how the rates of some specific elements such as cesium, tin, lithium, manganese, copper, rubidium, tungsten, gold have been set. I will quote from the justification that was presented and was part of that government regulation approved by the government in the spring of last year. I'll quote specifically. "After consultations with the Ministry of Environment, the Czech Mining Authority, the Mining Union, the Employee Union of the Mining and Oil Industry, such as cesium, tin, lithium, manganese, copper, rubidium, tungsten and gold, the rate was set at 5 percent of the market price, which is half the maximum permitted rate under the then applicable Mining Act. The rate was rounded to the whole crown. For tin, lithium, manganese, copper, tungsten and gold, the rate is based on the average world price level for 2014 according to Deutsche Rohstoffagentur, with the so-called US dollar exchange rate for the conversion of prices from US dollars to Czech crowns being used. monthly accumulated average for the period January to December 2014 according to data from the Czech National Bank. In the case of tungsten and lithium, for which the raw materials traded contain only a limited amount of mineral, the rate was converted into pure metal. Cesium and rubidium are not publicly traded commodities, therefore their official prices are not available.' I could quote the whole justification for the government's order here, but at this point, I don't think it's helpful. I think that really the debate on strategic and superstrategic raw materials has opened up this rather arduous topic, and it is undoubtedly necessary for us to deal intensively with the system of payments from extracted minerals and basically the levels of those rates. As long as I'm in charge of the Minister of Industry and Trade, the work will definitely run. I think we need to address this issue in the coming months. I presume that even the minister who takes my place will be able to carry this thing out so that the government can accept this change. Then there was another suggestion that mining should be organized by the state. That is true, I totally agree with that, but it must also be said how. And I don't think that's what this whole debate was all about. It is necessary to realise the fact, and I have already addressed it as part of my speech at the beginning of today's debate, when the state once issued a survey license which entitles the holders of exploratory licences to obtain a preferential right to possible extraction, so there is no other way than to deal with the person who owns the licences. That's perfectly logical. I also wish, from the very beginning, that the state enterprise Diamo carried out the survey itself, to carry out the mining itself, even subsequently, but simply in a given situation, when the research licenses were already issued once, there is no other subject with whom to deal than Geomet, virtually. with its owner. [[19.40 hours]] What about the future? In the future, the only way is - and all my steps were to do this - to map the state's mineral wealth, to map the potential of any interesting raw materials that may not have been interesting a few years ago. The developments in the world are so steep, you may not have heard of lithium a year ago, and today lithium is one of the most relegated words in the Czech public and media space. So the situation is changing over time, and the state should be able to respond to that. And what I'm suggesting, and what I was able to enforce on the government last week, is that the state of its mineral wealth charted quite thoroughly to assess the potential that it might be, and that, if that potential actually is, it could exploit. Thank you for listening to me, co-workers and colleagues, and I wish you a good evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u55	Thank you, Minister. Mr Zemek, Mr Fiedler, has made a point of fact. Both factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u56	Thank you for the floor. I'll take care of my colleague Hájek. You see, I'm here to observe such an effort not only with my colleague Hájek, but also with other colleagues to create an atmosphere here, such as that something unfair is going on, that there is some fraudulent company or some scam going on here, but it isn't. Here's what they say about some hidden structure. I've just opened up the site for the Geomet company, and it's where they're keying the structure on their website. Plus, they're committed to exposing the supposedly hidden stockholders. I merely note that it is quite common in the world that small mining companies acquire investors through shares, and I am surprised that Mr. colleague Hájek does not know this as a miner or as a miner. That's one thing. Second thing. Once again, I'm registering some kind of connection with the OKD case. I've already registered it with my colleague Babiš. He just pulled out the name of Mr. Havlík, virtually. Mr. Pavlík was right, he said it wrong, who allegedly worked for Bakala. So he worked in OKD, as I found out, some racing engineer, but that's probably the same level as if I said that colleague Hájek over there is an agent of Bakala because he worked in OKD. That's just nonsense. I would like to call on us here to really try not to defamate people and companies that we don't really know anything about, that is, some of them. There's a deterrent example of Diag Human case where there's been arbitration so that we don't get any arbitration for damaging the good name. I'm just pointing it out so we can avoid it. We're protected by immunity, but then the state could be sued for a lost investment, but not because it violates something state here, but because someone here is gonna damage the company's good name. That's for the record.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u57	Thank you, honourable Member. I highly recommend - don't damage your good names. prosit, Mr Fiedler and his point of order. After that, Mr Komárek, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u58	It will be very short, Mr President. I'd just like to see Minister Havlíček, who's right behind me. Minister, you will say in one sentence that this referendum is not binding, that it is not enforceable, memorandum, sorry, it is in my mouth, memorandum. [[The President draws attention to the slippage]] So the memorandum isn't binding. And in the second sentence, you say right after it opens the way for us to get back into the game. And it's already binding? So in one case, when it's about who's going to benefit, it's not binding, and it's putting us back in the game, it's binding at the same time? Minister, listen to what you're saying. That you're making fun of us, we've gotten used to it, but don't make fun of the citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u59	Mr Komárek and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u60	I dare say, although I don't normally quote, in response to this crazy debate, to quote passages from an article that is ten days old and called the Flying Battle of Lithium: Minister Jiří Havlíček, ČSSD, signed a memorandum with Australian company. The Memorandum gives this company a privileged position in further negotiations on lithium mining in Cínovec. Lithium will appear to be one of the most desirable ingredients in a few years. It will be the oil of the future. The Saudi wells are slowly orphaned, and everyone will want lithium. The Czech Republic is suddenly becoming an almost raw material superpower. Technically, it looks like an amazing revolution and economically as a great source of wealth growth for Czech citizens. When politicians grab it, there's an inebriated mixture that no one knows. There will be speeches for and against. No matter what, all the polls. The TV will broadcast it, so every MP will want to flourish and the parties will collect pre-election points. At aspoň they'll think they're collecting them. How is a normal person supposed to know about this? It's pretty simple. A minister who, on his own behalf, closes a major deal a few days before the election, potentially a trillion-dollar deal with a foreign company is either dumb or crazy. At the word of the guide, a kind reader can take the word more appropriate. I apologize to the Minister for the vulgarity, but I only quoted the author. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. Other factual points - Mr Sklenák, Mr Zemek, Mr Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u62	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues. All I have to do is ask. We've been here almost seven hours. I am trying to follow this debate very closely, and unfortunately some questions and answers have been repeated here for several times. I don't know if you're leaving and you're coming and you don't have a chance to watch it, so maybe ask your colleagues what we've been talking about. Because colleague Fiedler asked what legal commitment is and what a declaration of will is - we've been here about six times, and he again asks what legally binding means and what a declaration of will for cooperation means. Let's try to answer and get away from it and go to other questions. We'll never end up like this. We thought we'd like to finish the meeting this morning, so please, really, let's listen and not repeat ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u63	We're done. Friday's the election. Mr. Zemek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u64	Thank you. He kind Sklenák took the wind off my sails. I'm gonna say something similar. I sometimes feel like I'm in this movie, mareček, hand me a pen, discussing the word of a hero, and then, after about half an Plha, he loggs in there, saying he doesn't understand one word. Sometimes it kind of looks like this around here. The way I see it, the memorandum. It's basically the basis for some further negotiations. It is a declaration of common interest, of course non-binding, but it sets a certain standard for further negotiations. If any other interested party comes, we can say yes, there was another interested party who gave such and such conditions, so give better. That's how I feel. It's casual, but it sets a certain bar that we can't go under anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u65	Mr Hájek and his factual point. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u66	Once again, Mr President. Yes, I have a mining education, and that's why it keeps me up. Indeed, Minister, I am not satisfied that there is a state's raw materials policy for the fifteen years you have inherited. It's on four lines. Please, this is the material that's about the Tin Man bearing. There's geological information collected for 50 years. Fifty years! There's the final report of the Tinovec South bearing, the 1991 signature. There are basic documentation, mining, well situation, well profiles, geological maps, tectonic maps, coordinates, that means complete know-how, how the bearing conquered, that means the state, if it wanted - unfortunately your Ministry of Industry and Trade - had all the tools to take an interest in this raw material, it was lithium. Christ, it's lithium, I already have, virtually. My wife has had a lithium battery bike for five years, so don't tell us we've known about lithium for one year. Just these materials are clear, the state should have reacted earlier. And I pointed out in my speech that the state must be more flexible and absolutely flexible in these areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u68	Thank you for the floor, good evening. Colleagues, allow me to comment on what I witness here today. Well, in any case, you once again performed a hysterical attack on ANO and Mr. Babiš for the sake of discussing lithium here. We were supposed to talk about lithium, and half of this discussion was about what ANO and Mr Babiš, what kind of crooks we are. It's what we're discussing here. The memorandum, it's a scoundrel. You're here... Social democracy here proudly and bravely talked about wagging a dog. I feel like they were wriggling through the Chamber of Deputies and citizens today. I think it was a good show, but I must say that Mr. Havlíček was emotional and aggressive, Mr. Zaorálek chose a dramatic position of discretion. So he is a minister who, after 25 years of government or a share of government in the Czech Republic since 1990, has only just declared war on cheap work. Minister chovanec appeals to discretion and reason. It was the minister who managed, in quotation marks, to reorganize the police in a week, to liquidate the ÚOOZ and basically break up the whole system of, say, an uncorrupted investigation, without discussion in the Chamber of Deputies, on the Security Committee, without discussion in the government, in violation of the coalition agreement, etc. I feel that what Minister Havlíček and social democracy are doing here with a memorandum is again the same model, so-called. Shot in the dark, waiting to see what it does. Again, it's not discussed with the House, it hasn't been discussed with the government, so everyone here is doing what they want. I will follow up on what Mr. colleague Hájek said through you. Yes, this state is acting like an idiot. Excuse me for saying this, because we're talking about--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u69	I won't forgive you. Please, no offense, even if it's for the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u70	Okay, as a fool, because we're talking about science and research resources here. Last year, there was, I don't know, 34 billion, there's going to be a lot more billions there, and we're not, as Mr. Hájek said through you, we've been using lithium batteries in our mobile phones for five years, and the wheels are riding on it, and we know that lithium is actually a valuable raw material. That the D.O.D. knows. That actually the ministries aren't communicating with each other, that we're scratching our left hand behind our right ear. Is that how this state works? Do we want to imitate Israel with its innovative potential, with this ability at all, to deal with things in advance? I don't understand. Whether Minister Havlíček and Czech Social Democracy deserve commendation, this will be considered primarily by citizens outside the walls of this still respectable building, and I hope that they will show you this properly on Friday and Saturday. Let me just mention that the future legislature - because I had it ready, I really don't want to keep you, the domestic support we're talking about is also about supporting the domestic industry. So not only the defensive one, which I speak of often enough, but the domestic industry itself, and for example the view of increasing or reducing payments as far as the miners are concerned, is not quite as clear as that of some performances, and it will certainly be appropriate for the next legislative body to communicate much more with the miners, to become familiar with the problems they are facing, because if it takes 10 to 15 years to permit mining activity, and we are talking about strategic raw materials, where the country, if it doesn't benefit, will lag behind, then we're probably talking about nothing here. I'm only interested in one thing right now. I don't even care now if it's a memorandum or isn't legally binding in any way, because I don't think we can agree on that here. I wonder if Minister Havlíček will come out here and say that the memorandum will be annulled. That should be the point of this House's resolution, and that memorandum should simply disappear from the face of the earth. That's one. And if not, I call on the Minister and the entire social democracy that, in the event that they are wrong that this is not binding, and arbitration will be raised against the Czech Republic, because it is again a proven model, because from some things from the past I feel that the state administration has prepared some of the problems deliberately in order for the arbitration to take place, but that is my impression, so if an unknown company starts to benefit, then the ČSSD will in some way undoubtedly benefit from it, and if it does not benefit and it will be arbitration, it will not be such a broth, but better than a wire in the eye. I ask Minister Havlíček and social democracy, its members, to make a binding statement here on the microphone, or to say that if the arbitration is that they will pay it out of their own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u71	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. With a factual remark, Mr Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u72	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. So I'm not going to commit to anything, because I don't really understand the issue, so I'm going to take two general points. I only looked up a short report, and I have publicly available information that a memorandum was signed, attended by representatives of tripartite and mayor. I don't think those mayors would want to defend the interests of the ČSSD or rob this republic at all. I think that it defends the interests of its region and the workforce in particular. What it says is that it expresses the common will of both parties so that in the future acquired lithium from the bearing Cínovec is further modified and processed into the most possible final form on the Czech territory and for the benefit of the Czech Republic. One comment. Second point. A number of such memoranda are concluded. Now, if you'll excuse me, it might be a little ironic, but I also found that a memorandum has been concluded in the past with the nuclear energy agency on cooperation in the use of uranium ore deposits in Mongolia. I really don't know that the Mongol hoarder is discussing that we're trying to rob him. If it is discussed and if there is a memorandum, and I have closed a few in my life, it has always been just a declaration of mutual cooperation. And if the situation has come to such a point that a permit has already been issued, then I think it's okay that we're trying to find ways for mutual cooperation. Greetings to Mongolia.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u73	Thank you. Mr Martin Kolovratník, duly applied for. Mr. Jaroslav Borka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u74	Colleagues, colleagues, good evening from me. I listened very carefully to the debate, and I have been present in the hall for practically the whole time - that is the response to Mr Sklenák. I admit, I agree that sometimes we may be spinning around a little bit. But I have prepared the documents and will try to bring my views to the debate for an economic committee on behalf of colleagues from the Economic Committee, which is de facto the guarantee to the Ministry of Industry and Trade. And so I apologize if, at some point, I'm going to repeat myself on these questions, try to skip or shorten so that I don't really delay and say what has been said here several times. However, before I go into this performance, I must say in the introduction that the course of this debate is a great unpleasant surprise and disappointment for me at the beginning. I have already said somewhere in the media when the case broke out in quotation marks that it was unpleasant for me, unpleasant and human, because my relations with Minister Havlíček up to now were correct, factual, not to say friendly, but quite positive. We worked very well at the level of the Economic Committee and the Ministry of Industry. And I also said that I hope that it will explain that it will be illuminated, that we may be wrong, that we will learn the truth. Unfortunately, what shocked me at the beginning of the debate when the highest floor of social democracy came upon us and when we learned about StB, Zaorálek's nest, holding, party press, etc. I really didn't see that coming. We all know that colleagues from KSČM asked for this meeting, YES joined the request. In the opening 30 minutes, we immediately learned a huge attack on the YES movement. And I don't understand, I don't understand. On the contrary, I would like to thank Minister Havlíček for the matter that came a little while ago, unfortunately not until 7:35 p.m. I think the Prime Minister did, too, and I don't know why, messed up. He was talking about vrtět Dog. The fact that we, the Yes movement, are wagging the dog. I don't know. If the memorandum hadn't been signed, we probably wouldn't have called for an explanation. Well, I understand, there's some action first, and then there's a reaction to it. [[20.00 hours]] Now, about what I was gonna say. It's already been heard. We just wanted to ask. We asked 16 questions, which we sent to the Ministry of Industry and Trade in an open letter, and so far there was no answer. And now my view is in the House, the view of the Economic Committee. Until now, every similar strategic point, colleagues and colleagues, has been openly and normally discussed on the Guarantee Committee by the MIT. Just randomly - the completion of the Dukovan core, Temelina. We discussed this this year in June and July. The Economic Committee adopted a resolution across the political spectrum. The coalition and opposition agreement that we do not want to lose self-sufficiency, that the House is asking the government to continue this trend. Overcompensation of renewable sources. A huge billion-dollar theme. Again on the last economic committee I managed during this period on 14 September. An open debate with Deputy Minister Kovačovská, a large, wide debate, once again a consensus between the coalition and the opposition. We discussed it. All of a sudden, nothing. So suddenly a memorandum is signed. Minister Havlíček said that they have been debating this issue at the MIT for a long time. They were debating with us on the Economic Committee. I found the 28th meeting of October 2015, my friends, a two-year-old meeting of the Economic Committee, where one of the amendments to the Mining Act was discussed. It was the House's 500 press. Very long debate. The proposal was submitted by the Deputy Minister of Industry Eduard Muřický and again in the report submitted - to simplify and make more transparent the procedure for managing the payments of the minerals obtained, to increase the revenue of the state budget from the payments of the minerals obtained, etc. etc. And now all of a sudden, nothing. And that, colleagues from social democracy, is what we ask. What we just don't understand. In those e-mails, in those documents that many of us have received, there is an offer - and I believe it may be just speculation - one explanation. It was supposed to help the company quickly enter the stock exchange, withdraw the money from the capital markets, lower the rates then maybe it's this company's shares that are attractive. It's been said. She writes on the web that supplies are her own. So specific questions from me. I'm not gonna repeat them after someone else because they haven't been laid yet. From internal documents of the Ministry of Industry I have verified, it has already been mentioned, reduction of charges from 10 percent to less than 0.7. This happened on the proposal of the MIT and the Czech Mining Authority by resolution 98 and 2016. Diamo has proven to have prepared an analysis for the MIT this summer, which mentions the possibility that the complete management and extraction of raw materials will ensure itself, but that the government must decide. That it's one of the choices that the government has to decide. It's a political decision. So I would like to ask my fellow ministers who discussed this, at what levels of the ministry this has been discussed. And again, why didn't this information ever come to the House on the Economic Committee? I can quote from the material. On 30 June at 13 o'clock this year, the Tripartite Economic Policy Working Team acted. Director of the Department of the MIT Mr Kavina said there: The MIT believes that lithium is a great opportunity for the Czech Republic, we must be able to use it. This is a high-tech commodity for industry, batteries etc. etc., I will shorten this, but also for energy storage in connection with renewable sources. Clearly, the Ministry has been dealt with and this matter has been dealt with since spring. I must ask again, for the tenth time, why the memorandum was signed without a government or at least without an economic committee. Question two. I quote from publicly available sources Jaromír Starý from the Czech Geological Service. The bearing is impressive when it comes to the amount of metals, but the ore is quite poor. In our country, the cafeteria is about 0.2 percent, in the world it is two to four times bigger. So the geologists do not question the economic return on mining - and attention, any profitability is linked to the use of other metals, mainly tungsten, tin, rubidium and cesium. The Minister spoke of this in a hint a little while ago, but I ask in the memorandum: Were the prices of these metals also considered? Did you write, did you sign the memorandum just because you knew or knew what the prices of these accompanying metals were? I think I'll skip the third question so I don't repeat what was said here, that's the property structure of the Australian company. The largest shareholder of 27 %, the British mailbox company Computershare Company Nominees. I guess I'm just gonna ask you for nothing if the MIT did some kind of background check on its partner's property structure. I'm afraid that wasn't the case. And now the explanation of why we're asking. Why do we want to talk to you and know the questions at this meeting? It was said that the memorandum is not in your opinion, according to the Minister, that it is not significant that it does not really bind us to anything. But I don't know. When I look at the working translation of the memorandum, at the beginning I will read that the partners - the Ministry and the EMH - take note of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and Australia on mutual support and protection of investments signed in Canberra in 1993, take note of the Agreement between the Czech Republic and Australia on the abolition of double taxation. Based on these agreements, they say that they want to support the exploration of lithium ores, promote exploitation and processing, promote metallurgical processing and industrial production of these ores, facilitate investment, etc. etc. And so I ask, what if we stop doing that? What if the Czech Republic decides otherwise, and perhaps today we will adopt a resolution on the annulment of this memorandum? Is it really that meaningless? Are we not at risk of arbitration and possible arbitration, where the Czech Republic will be represented, as we have noticed several times by Mr Radek Pokorný, a friend of the Prime Minister? Maybe it'll be another interesting profitable business for him. Friends, these questions really are too many. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. Mr. President of the KSČM Kováčik parliamentary club. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u76	Good evening again. I promise it won't be many more times, but I still have to at this point. Firstly, I would now like to propose a procedural proposal for us to act and vote on the agenda after 21st and 24th hours. Secondly, I'm telling the honored auditorium that the live feed has just ended. Maybe this will speed things up after all. I'm presenting my procedural proposal now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u77	Thank you for this wonderful procedural proposal, which I will vote on without debate. Now, take two minutes to call our colleagues from the lobby, and then we'll start voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u78	So we're going to vote. I'll ask my colleagues to take their seats. I will ask the scrutinists for the number of Members present, so I ask the Members to raise their hand so that we can establish a quorum. [[A census of Members present is taking place.]] There are 95 Members and Members present, so the quorum is 48. I am opening the vote (number 6) on Mr Kováčik's procedural proposal. Those who are in favour of taking action today in terms of both territorial and procedural terms and voting after 21st and after 24th o'clock should raise their hand. Who's against it? [[The voter count is in progress.]] So 68 of the Members present were pros, 4 against. The procedural proposal has been accepted. We, in addition to the fact that we can still act after 21st hour, can continue with another registered one and that is Mr Jaroslav Borka. Please, Mr. Ambassador. It is followed by another one, two, three, four, five, six entered in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u79	Dear colleagues, many things have been said here, so I will limit myself only to explaining what I think is actually the essence of this problem that we are dealing with today. When I first intersected Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka on lithium mining on January 17, 2017, I had no idea that it had actually been decided. At the time I wanted to know how the state wanted to ensure that lithium extracted by private companies was processed in the Czech Republic, and I asked if it could benefit the state-owned company Diamo, which would guarantee that the raw material would be harvested not only here, but that it would also be processed in our country. The Prime Minister told me that it was for consideration and that the Ministry of Industry and Trade would examine everything. However, it was already clear for well-known reasons that Diamo would not benefit, and the right to engage separately is only possible after 2025. In my second interview on September 7, I was wondering how the state would ensure that lithium and other elements would not only be mined, but also processed here in our country. I learned that the feasibility study is not completed, Diamo is preparing material for the government, the content of which is also strengthening the role of the state in the use of bearings. There is therefore a question: why does the state no longer have such an important document and the relevant legal framework? After all, Geomet's permission for geological exploration was issued in 2010. And I have to point out one thing that in 2007 it was also known that lithium's importance was increasing, as this year the United States of America started producing lithium batteries, so it was clear that lithium as such would become increasingly important for the development of this area. Unfortunately, after this finding, Diamo is having the company process the evaluation and sell the pond on Cínovec to a private company, Karel Janeček, who is not hiding by buying this and wanting to do business with it. It is not to be believed that our experts do not know the value of land in a few years. And so here is the question of what was going to happen to Diamo, the state enterprise, in order to do so. I will say that it was not only the area of Tínovka, but a similar scenario happened in Karlovy Vary in Horní Slavkov, where also extracted minerals were sold, respectively. heaps of tin mining for the private company Sanaka, which is also under the thumb of Karel Janeček. Moreover, mining in the Karlovy Vary and Ústí Region would help to restructure the economy after the coal mining downturn. This means that the government that approved this programme could actually get funding, jobs for the unemployed and other benefits associated with it. I do not understand why it has not worked out a sophisticated raw material policy with many years of historical tradition, which would respond to current developments and benefit citizens. I would like to point out before I go to such a summary that, unfortunately, it is not just lithium. There are other metals in the bearing, such as tin, tungsten, Niobium and molybdenum. But what is also interesting is the rubidium, which is not much talked about anywhere. There was no reason, of course, we didn't know much about it in the past. But the practical importance of rubidium is now rising. Metal rubidium is used in the production of photocells, thermoion convectors and to remove residues of gases from vacuum tubes. An important use is found by rubidium as part of precise atomic clock, in GPS satellites and also ruby oxide is used as a glass additive to increase the hardness of glass. [[20.20 hours]] I don't think tonight's argument about whether the Ministry of the Environment or the Ministry of Industry is guilty would be the most important thing. I think that this thing began much earlier when governments that came after 1989 did not appreciate or wanted to appreciate the importance of this element and recklessly sold to private entities so that the state is actually very difficult to achieve at present. And here's one more thing I'd like to say. Minister Havlíček and others here have told us that the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, together with YES, wanted to direct this matter to the elections. I just want to say that I can't agree with that. As I was saying, on January 19th, I intersected the first interpellation. On 30 March, we sent a letter to the Supreme State Attorney Pavel Zeman to assess whether the mining permit on Cínovec was okay, and we appealed that unfortunately only lithium is mentioned there, but other elements found there are not mentioned in this permit. On 15 June we organised a seminar with the result that we again pointed out that concrete measures were taken to change the system, respectively. conclusions that were made many and many years ago. There was also a press conference. In September, I intersected for the second time, and I didn't get the answers again. Then, in June, a petition followed. And here's the thing I'd like to say. For example, an expert on mining from the Mining University, Professor Slivka evaluates the position of politicians critically, that we have not responded enough in the development of the state's raw materials policy, and other things. On the other hand, it must be said that it is the Institute of Clean Technology, the Centre of Competence, that is the College of Mining. This means that insufficient raw materials are analysed there, which, of course, was not lithium at the time. Yet this school did not come to this because there was a contract with Geomet, which I do not know if this answer can satisfy me. And I'm saying, frankly, I don't know what the academics were doing either, virtually. professional public in the Czech Geological Service, Czech Mining Office, Mining College, Geological Institute of the Academy of Sciences. These are all organisations that should have pointed out more strongly that lithium is rising in importance and something needs to be done about it. I would like to conclude by saying that I certainly think that this was not a purpose in the sense that we would like to play theater here in front of the citizens. But at least one thing we should take from here - the task of solving the share of the private company and the share of the state-owned company Diamo or some other company that would ensure that lithium will actually be processed here in the Czech Republic and that it will benefit both the state and those areas that are particularly concerned, i.e. Karlovy Vary and Ústí Region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u80	I thank Mr Borka. Another duly signed up is Mrs Alena Nohavová. Please, madam, you have the floor. [[There's a Mrs. Havel going to the microphone. It comes from the diaper: Nohava, not Havel.]] Nohavová, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u81	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of voters have recently asked politicians what is the situation with regard to lithium mining. I am not an expert on raw materials policy, so I took advantage of the written interpelation of the Minister of Industry and Trade on lithium mining in the Czech Republic, so in my speech I will rely on the Minister's reply to the written interpelation. It has already been said that lithium was once unnecessary waste. Today, it is an essential element for the production of high-performance batteries needed for the electrical industry. And so it seems that we finally have - the last time it was uranium - raw material supplies in the 1950s, and we can directly say strategic raw materials that will be needed and balanced directly with gold in the near future, all over the world. I asked the Minister whether we were really able to benefit from these strategic lithium reserves, with their own resources and in the interests of the Czech Republic and its people, or again allow this raw material to fall as another of our property, such as water, sand, coal, into the hands of foreign owners. And if we allow the right to research and mining to be acquired by a foreign entity, then it will be another tunnel to the property of all of us, such as the sale of OKD, the sale of Mostecká, such as the sale of sewers, water companies, the sale of electricity and gas distributors and dozens of other smaller and larger, the sale, one can say for the mouth, foreign owners. That is to say, ugly thieves carried out over the last 27 years in the framework of capitalism. At a time when lithium experts have already identified themselves as a strategic raw material, a large part of the land on which waste heaps of tin mining, in which lithium is contained, from the ownership of the state through the ownership of the municipality through a foundation to one of the Czech billionaires, is a story in itself. Extraction from ponds is surface and is easier and relatively cheap. At the same time, this eliminates the old environmental burden. According to the communication by the Minister of Industry and Trade, the Czech company Geomet, which is owned by the Australian company European Metals, has the biggest plans in the Ore Mountains. It wants to mine deep and get more raw materials from the bearing. This company has been granted three research territories by the Ministry of the Environment and the company is conducting a drilling survey on them. The profitability of mining will be assessed by studies and results that will be published around 2018. The Minister's reply further states: Geomet made the request first. According to Czech law, no other entity or state company, e.g. Diamo, for reconnaissance territory in the same location ask. - You'd say a well-written law, wouldn't you? But obviously for multinational business, and not for the Czech Republic. But the Australian company is only a subsidiary of another multinational company located in the Virgin Islands in tax havens, and its owners are hidden. Why does the Czech State, through the Minister of Industry and Trade, close a memorandum of understanding with such a company a few weeks before the election, which they also claim does not commit anyone to anything? If it doesn't tie, then why did they close it? And why did they close it with their daughter's company? This is the reason to cancel the memorandum. Australia and I have an agreement to protect investment, whereas we don't have an agreement with the Virgin Islands. The Chairman of the ANO movement screams loudly about the stealthy organized ČSSD. Minister Havlíček's procedure really reeks of it. But isn't it just that the thief is screaming to catch the thief? After all, an extension of the search permit was issued by the Ministry of Environment controlled by YES. Who less than a year ago and why and in the interest of whom did they decide to lower the price of the raw material extracted from 10 per cent to a ridiculous 0.6 per cent? Unfortunately, we are once again witnessing at least two different groups fighting over the property of the nation. And in addition, they're putting up their prey fights as part of the election struggle for the welfare of the people. [[20.30 hours]] The Minister also states in his reply that it is necessary to ensure that minerals obtained in the Czech territory are further processed so that added value, employment and other benefits remain in our country. However, specific proposals are missing. And how about by law to change the lobbyist one for the benefit of the foreigner manipulated? Didn't the D.O.D. think of that? Even though he is responsible for this resort? After 1989, all governments in the Czech Republic, which took turns here, failed or did not want to prove the extracted raw materials processed into the most final form on the Czech territory. The chain of companies in the Czech Republic has thus broken from mining to processing to final production. To whom to benefit and who and how the responsible ministers have taken an interest, this is already passé. Shall we admit it again? Will this be the case with lithium? The Minister wishes to make the most effective use possible. But wishing without real efforts to fulfill them, which we have witnessed for 27 years, is, in a better case, incompetence and, in a worse case, fraud. KSČM perceives this issue very sensitively and will do everything we can to avoid losing this raw material. If they can look after their supplies of raw materials within the European Union and in the world for their citizens, Germany, France, Britain, China, the United States, Russia, even the governments of developing and semi-colonial states, they must do so and ensure the government of the Czech Republic. If she can't do it, then she'll have to be coerced, even by civil coercion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u82	Thank you, Mrs Nohavová. Another envoy is Mr Karel Fiedler, followed by Mr Luzar, Mrs Havlová, followed by Mr Kudela, followed by Mr Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u83	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've been taking notes again from what was going on here during the debate, so first I'm going to comment a little, and then I'm going to say the main thing I want to say in this debate here. There was a mention from Prime Minister Sobotka about the movie Dang Dog and the fact that this case is supposed to be a diversion. I agree with this, but I will comment on this, as I said just a moment ago, last time, at the end of my contribution. The Prime Minister also mentioned Mr. Andrej Babiš as an aesthetic. I think it was even mentioned by the Aestébák Bureš, which I think also fell from the Minister of Trade and Industry. Let us remember who proposed and how he appointed Minister Babiš to the government. Now I'm far from expressing myself here about this lashing and here about this. But let's get to the crucial thing. Who suggested this person to Minister Babiš, the ex-minister, then? It was Minister Sobotka. And if it bothers him today, if he criticizes this person and his coalition partner in this way today, then let him question his own conscience. I will only add to that what I think all the time is that his vanity to sit in the Prime Minister's chair has triumphed over making a coalition deal with anyone. Basically, we've been here for three years because it took four months for the government to come up, and now it's really the government in a coma, so for three years, we've been hearing how great the government is, amazing how it works, how it's one of the most successful governments, how it's all done, and I've already been here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, even in the main Chamber, talking before, and all of a sudden here we hear how it's going. I hope that citizens and voters, when they go to the urns in a moment, will remember that they have heard a number of lies and falsehoods from those, in particular, traditional parliamentary parties that convince them how best they can do and how to vote for them, because they have a patent for it basically under the law on political parties. But I'm not gonna drag that in here, so we'd really run away. It was also said here by Prime Minister Sobotka that the Communists had engaged other MPs. That's what I'm really doing. I mentioned it here in my first post that I myself suggested that we deal with this point in time. No one had to encourage me - neither the Communists nor any other political party. On the contrary, I have proposed this myself, even though some Members have already intersected it and, in the form of interspersing, they have basically prevented me from doing so. However, I proposed it twice as an emergency meeting, and it was the parties to the coalition, as I once said here today, that was rejected. If Prime Minister Sobotka is proposing lithium to solve the case to watch the movie Whisper the Dog, it's a really pathetic suggestion. I think that gros, and it was crucial to look at what we heard here, how the case occurred, what history was, what the causal links were, which some colleagues have devoted themselves to, just those concerned were trying to avoid. A purpose link. It was said from Vice-President Bartošek that there is a special purpose connection or that we are witnessing a special purpose connection of KSČM, SPD, YES. Let's wait until after the election. We may all wonder what coalitions will be formed and what negotiations will take place. And as has been mentioned several times here, although perhaps the Minister of Industry and Trade will not agree with this, because he believes that his answer to why the memorandum was signed, so let me not say again, because I am running for a referendum on the European Union, so I am wrong about why the memorandum has been signed this way, and perhaps you Members, you will make your every opinion, just as citizens and voters who have been watching this transmission for a long time will certainly do. The solarium was also remembered here. Now don't get mad at me, fellows from the ANO MP's club. It was just a disbanded Dawn Club, which was very energetic in the number of then I mean ten people here we literally sweated blood to convince you that there was going to be another solar tunnel and its expansion. And then, when we proposed it, there were amendments, so as not to be angry with me by ANO fellow Members, and they often voted against those proposals. But it's not just about them. This is basically about the entire government coalition, because, as I said a while ago, the government coalition has been able to complement itself for three years and vote for one another and vote for one another for oil rape. And look, when the election approaches, they suddenly become friends. By the way, I'm going to say to this beet tree that there's been a long debate here about how much we have to mix, and today it's also said here, so I'm responding. Colleagues and co-workers, citizens, if you're listening to this, we're mixing the rape into the oil because somebody's making us do it. We need to meet some limits on renewable energy sources. Nonsense. In Norway, they've already found that these electric cars aren't as bright as they thought. We all found out that it wasn't as great as we thought it was with the rape. Someone's making us do this? Well, we are forced by the European Union and the directives and guidelines that are adopted there, and we are unable to make decisions about them because we have to accept them because we are forced to do so. Well, since it's been mentioned here, I'll take the liberty of reacting to that, too. [[20.40 hours]] Then here was the example of Norway mentioned. Let's just think about it a little bit, because it's very similar. In Norway, oil is extracted and profits from oil production are taxed at 78 percent. We heard here how out of 10 percent of the charges were reduced to 0.66, that's the 0.7. I fear that what works in Norway may not work so well with us because we have witnessed that, as our previous speaker, Nohavová said, anything from water, various raw materials, coal, has simply been able to devalue. I think the most sensible thing would be if this government, and let us remember the important thing, that this government will be here much longer than this Chamber of Deputies, which, on the day of the election, but we know that our mandate is until October 26th, so on October 26th, this Chamber of Deputies ends, but this government will still be here, I would almost say, an estimated, indefinite time. It took four months for the last government to come into existence. When I see what is being born, not born, or what coalitions are being speculated about, I think we may have a period when a number of complaints and protests can also be about how elections, how campaigns and everything else have been going on can be even longer. [[Mr Brázdil warns the speaker off the microphone that he no longer speaks on direct television.]] It doesn't matter at all that it's not on TV. An ANO colleague misunderstood that. And now he's broken my mind. I think it would be the most reasonable not to take advantage of it. I do not know what this Chamber of Deputies is voting for, what is possible, but there will be no lower debts after this government, they will be almost as high, the cosmetic change in the amount of our debt is really cosmetic and the debts will remain equally large. I think it would be most sensible for us to let our grandsons deal with it more wisely, not in this election hysteria, or in the post-election hysteria that will be, I can already see how the coalition parties that will negotiate with each other, how they will blame each other. That would be the most reasonable option in my opinion. If this was not possible, I think the second most reasonable option is to go, but not entirely, through higher taxation of profits, whether it turns out to be really that interesting or not, and if it isn't, I'm going to point it to point 1, which I said, whether it stays for those who are after us and calmly after more discussion and more analyses decide on it. Now, about what I said in the introduction. It was said here that it was about distracting, this election carnage that is happening here today. I completely agree that this is a diversion, only unlike my previous speakers, I see it from a different point of view, why it is distracting. I believe that this is about making various cases, whether it be a Tea Nest, whether it be koruna bonds, and now I am not going to debate whether they were justified, unjustified, what the substance of the matter is, now lithium, I was talking about solars and other matters, about restricting the personal freedom of citizens, that it is only a creeping salami method of gradually removing the Czech Republic from autonomy, so that citizens would not notice it, to deal with lithium, to deal with other matters, because it seems that before these elections, lithium is the most important case. I agree that this is a very fundamental problem. I was the one who wanted us to deal with it, and I suggested that we deal with it at the meeting, and I signed the ark under the call of this meeting. But citizens are being led away by these cases from what I consider most important to these elections, because in these elections, citizens will be able to comment on the direction of the Czech Republic, whether by the salami method they will get rid of other things, because I consider the referendum on the European Union to be the most important issue of these elections, and lithium has served very beautifully to make the citizens forget about it for a very long time or lose sight of it, to deal with lithium. But the Prime Minister, who spoke so beautifully here at the beginning, clearly states that his aim and supposedly our aim is to adopt the euro. I don't know if we can express ourselves or not. I know that, in particular, as far as the adoption of the euro is concerned, there is a great deal of resentment for this in society. I think and believe that citizens should have the right to express themselves in the referendum on the European Union as well as on how further we will continue, whether we will address other matters, whether our powers will be further reduced. We couldn't recall losing some of our decision-making powers a few years ago. I would very much hate to see that our decision-making will also be limited in the subject on which today's meeting was. I believe that the citizens will improve, they will return to what is essential for this time. I say that lithium is crucial and the memorandum is crucial, but I think that it is much more important and fundamental that citizens can express how they want to continue in the referendum on the European Union. And the government and opposition parties, whose representatives have spoken here today, as we know, very often do not want to accept this issue completely undemocratically. Thank you for your attention. I also took the liberty of a little vote when everyone here played it out in front of me. But I think I mentioned, in a substantial part of my contribution, why I signed the request to convene this extraordinary meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u84	I thank Mr Fiedler. We are continuing the debate with Mr Leo Luzar's speech. Mrs Olga Havlová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u85	Mr President, Madam Minister, the Minister is here too, so, Minister, thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for staying here until these late evening hours. I'm gonna try to be really material. Although it is not my custom, I will return to the fundamental problems of the treaty that we have before us and why we are actually here today. We've heard a lot about populism, pre-election agitation, and all that stuff. Maybe we didn't do enough basic work. I regret that Minister Havlíček is not here because I think he should be here, it is his subject. He did this, he should be answering here. Perhaps my words will be passed on to him, or maybe he'll meet them. First of all, it deserves to answer the question, I am talking about a memorandum that talks about the Treaty on the Protection of Investment between Australia and the Czech Republic. I found this contract, I read it, and I found out that it was signed on July 29, 1991 by Mr. Václav Klaus in Canberra. The memorandum states that it was 1993. I'm asking what kind of contract this is. Is it another contract or the same, but just a typo? I would understand that ratification has entered into force and so forth, but it would not have been signed in Canberra in 1993. She was signed in 1991. So I'm asking what we're talking about in a memorandum to this company that has some relations with Australia. [[20.50 hours]] The second thing that is here and which was said here by the Minister when he defended it, he said that important constitutional lawyers guaranteed, my opinions, gentlemen even said it on TV. I heard a different statement on TV from the lawyers who said it was like they wouldn't do it. Even the Minister of Justice here let the imagination out of his previous action and talked about the risks associated with this. I think there really are risks here, because, Mr. Absent Minister Havlíček, when you were entering these lawyers, if any. Did you know their opinion, did the lawyers know both this international treaty between Australia and the Czech Republic, as well as laws on mining issues? Did they have a chance to compare both the memorandum and the contract and the laws? Because I think there's a fine dog buried in it, and not a dog wriggling, but a dog buried in these contracts, and I think that makes it clear to me why this treaty, the memorandum was created. And if you look at it, and I'll try to explain briefly what the problem is. First of all, the research law states that the licence granted for the survey is non-transferable. I just can't hand over the license granted to Geomet to anyone else that the company has decided so, here I have a signed research license, so I'm gonna have it done to someone else. It's not. That's what she has to do. And she's responsible for the results of the survey, which she's obliged to hand over the survey results to the state. Yes, this company has the right, but in the quotation marks of copyright, of the message it sent to the State, and if anyone further uses the report to ask for mining, to define the space, etc., then, of course, they are entitled to a reward. So it's not true that that's how you once give permission to explore that this company has to do it already. It's not true. The value of the survey was calculated by Mr Špidla as Director of the Department of Advisors and Counsellors of the Prime Minister in August this year in order of one billion crowns. Orderly, I'm warning you, she wasn't drawing any accurate readings. So it is possible to stop the possibility that the company that has the rights to exploration will automatically continue to mine. He's not legally entitled to it. That's what I want to point out. That is why I will return, why this memorandum is necessary and why it must be stated in the memorandum that it is governed by the agreement between Australia and the Czech Republic. If you look at the memorandum properly, then on page seven of the memorandum, i.e. the Investment Protection Agreement, which was signed in 1991, I reiterate the date, because it is quite important, is spoken, Article VI, expropriation and nationalization. In 1991 these two words were a red rag. Absolutely. And in this treaty, it is very precise what the state has to say when it wants to expropriate and nationalize. And they're very gluttoned. But the laws on rock mining and determining who will or won't be, they're counting on this again. These laws speak of the fact that it is not true that the one who does the research must also be the one who will benefit and that the state determines. In other words, the State discriminates against these entities in the free market because it says: It is not true that you must then. No, that's for the state to decide. The state is going to wonder if it wants to benefit at all, whether it's going to commit to mining one or the other, and if it happens to be someone other than the one who did the research, he's entitled to seven years of protection for his work and he can set a price for the job. She's entitled to that. This is where I use the copyright parallel. Authors protect their works for 70 years, research protects themselves for seven years. And that's the problem why this company needs this memorandum. Because it talks about it, and because it's from 1991, there are clear conditions under which this company can be deprived of its imaginary rights. And they are really, in my opinion, preparing the ground for possible arbitration under this treaty. And that's a little bit of a problem, because if you look at how the arbitrations have been going on in history, here are the words that have already been said, so everyone defends history, and I'm going to use the example that hasn't been made here yet, Diag Human has been here, but remember the arbitrations with Nova TV, CET 21, as we were convinced on TV, dozens of lawyers have expressed themselves, here are clear evidence that I am right, then Mr Železný was still there, as the whole nation convinced that he was right and the state is safe. Yet we paid $10 billion. Then where was he to prove he was wrong? Where will the Minister be when the Czech Republic pays? And here are the examples. I don't think those constitutional lawyers or those lawyers on international agreements and agreements and memoranda were comparing the treaty first, they would notice the difference, the date of signing the treaty in the memorandum, so they didn't compare the mining laws that are three and that affect this issue here, and the diction to this treaty. And if someone, and the Australian society, actually plays at it in my opinion, will use that article VI on expropriation and nationalization, where it is clearly written, when and under what conditions the state can, we will not be able to exercise the possibility of assigning lithium mining to anyone other than them, because they will say: We protect our investment according to what we have signed up for. Among other things, the material is said, which is also interesting, but I warn you, it was created in 1991, to stimulate investment. No support, no offer. Motivate. In other words, just the thought of volunteering that we want to benefit is inciting the investment. And based on that, they might want to return the costs. And I ask, the costs - and I will repeat again, one billion of Mr Špidla's material as a government adviser - but what if, in the meantime, this company in the free markets gets the money by encouraging the Czech government to sign the Minister and other loans and other matters will be promised and will have to pay for them. Not maybe future leaks from lithium's profits, who knows when it's going to benefit, it's all true, and that we have seven years, ten years here, that maybe, who knows how it's going to be. But this inciting here that they're going to take credit, they're going to take financial collateral, bank interest and others, and they're all protected by the 1991 Australian-Czech-Republic agreement. Not 1993, 1991. And that's the problem here. And that's where I see why the Australian company wanted to sign this memorandum. I don't know who initiated the first step, who came to who, let's sign it. But I think that's the problem, because if you take the timing, you will find that the Czech government has begun to express concerns about Czech lithium. The Prime Minister spoke of lithium being a national raw material, to be invented, to look for ways, and this company could lose it. She felt worried, so she made sure of it. And that is why I see the problem here in this investment protection agreement, which is old, does not correspond to the modern agreements that we have concluded, and unfortunately it discriminates against the state in this matter. And that's the problem we're gonna be facing. I don't want to appeal to the Minister, even though it would be really interesting to go back to that in ten years and find out who was right about this matter. But I think the only decent solution right now is to declare the contract nullity. Again, the term contract. Memorandum. Report this memorandum as nullity and take in all seriousness that we can be - we can be - to a certain financial extent involved in arbitration. I'm talking about that one billion somehow calculated by Mr. Špidla as an advisor, maybe some more will come along, but in the future, we'll open our hands to processing lithium, we can give it to anyone, mining rights as a state, even in my opinion, we don't have to wait seven years, because we're going to buy it, the copyrights for the survey that was carried out by Geomet. Here's the space and instructions for how to proceed. [[21.00 hours]] I therefore support all the efforts and resolutions that will talk about this. I don't think it's a shame when he confesses yes, we signed something where we didn't see the possible consequences, we ran into significant public opposition, we don't want to encourage anything, so just because it's, and here it was also said, a piece of paper, though I don't think so, we're just gonna deal with the company in gentleman terms, we're gonna make a deal, and we're gonna consider it zero. This should be the journey from today, from today's meeting. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u86	I thank Mr Luzar. Now, Mrs Olga Havlová will take the floor and follow two more applications - Mr Kudela and Mr Kaňkovský. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u87	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, I will therefore be very brief, because what I wanted to say has already been said and very detailed and well said before me by Mr Luzar. I'd just say something quick that hasn't come out yet, and that's that actually, the extraction of resources... Like this. According to public sources, lithium mining is in the process of bearing exploration, which is actually permitted by the Ministry of Environment. Following this stage, as Mr. Luzar said, we're setting up a rehab area. And we haven't reached this stage at all. And if there's an opening, it's only then that the next stage starts, and that's the right to gain an exclusive bearing. The acquisition of an exclusive bearing by determining the conquering area may then commence the conquest of an exclusive bearing by a firm or organisation after the permit has been issued by the Mining Authority (?). The organization must have prior approval of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to submit a proposal for the establishment of a period of time, and the previous consent may be linked by the Ministry to the fulfilment of the conditions relating to the creation of a uniform raw material policy of the Czech Republic. Those conditions shall be indicated in the decision establishing the period of time. I would go back to the memorandum - why? I was intrigued by two points. This Memorandum of Understanding aims to promote and facilitate future cooperation in the field of lithium exploration, extraction and processing up to final products within the Czech Republic. So, folks, this isn't just about Tinovec, this is about exploration and mining throughout the Czech Republic. And then at point three, there is also quite an interesting clause: Both participants declare their intention etc. in the possibility of future bilateral agreements between the Czech authorities and the company on the framework of future cooperation in the field of lithium sector, including possible involvement of the Czech State as a capital participant of the project. So we're going to put the capital into it, and then, as we've said several times, we're going to get 0.6 percent of the state budget. So these are quite misleading things, and I would say that, following the analysis of the signed memorandum, I take the impression that the Minister of Industry and Trade apparently wanted to commit the future Minister to a positive agreement with the establishment of the period area and subsequently to the authorisation of the acquisition of an exclusive bearing which the current Minister himself did not issue. This seems to have the impression that he wanted to give the memorandum to an Australian investor for possible arbitration for the Czech Republic, as it was said here. And if we're talking about whether or not it's legally binding, I don't think we're gonna mess anything up by nullifying the whole memorandum and making decisions about it somewhere else and another way. I therefore agree with the resolution of the KSČM on the annulment of the memorandum, because mineral wealth belongs to the state and therefore to all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u88	I thank Mrs Olza Havlová, and before I give the floor to Mr Kudel, Mr Chalupa is making a point of fact. Kudela's colleague is in anticipation. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u89	Thank you for the floor. I will not really delay you, however, my colleague - thank you to her through you - pointed out one more thing that I would like to draw your attention to, and perhaps executives, because the findings are such that judicial proceedings are under way, and the land office has begun to hand over to a group of people a substitute land just at the borders of the conquering areas, thereby putting the miners in a very disadvantageous situation in the future, because when they want to expand the conquest area, they will be blackmailable. And I'm just pointing out that someone should look into it and explore how the land office is progressing in this case, so that we don't get the fact that someone is buying their claims from the restitutionrs and buying land at the border of the conquest area, and we're in a bag anyway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u90	I thank Mr Chalupa for his time on the point of fact, and Mr Petr Kudela will take the floor and prepare his colleague Vít Kaňkovský. I do not see Mr Kudela, his application is forfeit. Mr. Kaňkovský has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u91	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Probably not only I assumed that today's meeting on lithium mining would be a very tough political struggle, and this has been confirmed. He's a few days before the election. In this situation, it is right that we have started this discussion on lithium today, only it is a pity that the discussion is much more political than factual. Yet the facts have been mentioned here, but there have also been many fables, half truths and untruths. Surely, however, the problem of raw materials policy, especially now the question of lithium extraction and processing, cannot be made easy in any way. I believe that the questions that my colleague Jan Bartošek has asked here today are rational, and that is what the public is very keenly interested in. We believe that everything needs to be done to ensure that the Czech Republic does not release its mineral wealth into the hands of foreign investors, that everything needs to be done to benefit our citizens, not foreign companies with unclear ownership structure. However, I believe that if we have already started to unravel the problem of lithium treatment, we must also open another issue that is closely related to today's topic, which I have dealt with in the House in the interpelation of Minister Brabec a while ago, and I have also dealt with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, then also as Minister Mládek. This problem concerns the Vysočina Region and is the planned renewal of uranium mining in Brzkov u Jihlava, where research work was carried out in the late 1970s and subsequently in the 1980s in the area of Brzkov u Jihlava and the surrounding area, which concerned possible uranium mining. At that time, both uranium reserves and the profitability of mining in this location appeared to be not very promising. Subsequently, the exploration sites were flooded and the bearing remained as a backup site for uranium mining. To a great surprise to local citizens, but also to the citizens of the surrounding communities, the Ministry of Industry and Trade began to develop activities in 2015 and its authorised state enterprise Diamo, and it must be said that with great interest, the restoration of uranium mining, despite the fact that the world uranium prices at that time fell to a ten-year minimum. The situation is all the more alarming that the reconstruction of uranium mining should have been prepared in the first version despite the fact that research work took place 20 years ago with technical and software possibilities of that time. And wonder to the world, no one in the mining recovery plan has considered new exploration work, new modelling of uranium reserves and approximation of the profitability and yield of the bearing. Only the proposal to extend the protected bearing area to another location has appeared, which in practice means new and further restrictions on citizens' rights of even wider territory. At that time, there was logically a great opposition to the citizens of Brzkov and the surrounding area, but their voice was not heard, or very little. [[21.10 hours]] As I said before, I have intersected Minister Brabec on this matter. We held negotiations at the Ministry of Industry and Trade and so on. Unfortunately, after a short pause, when it appeared that the intention to restore uranium mining would go to ice, negotiations to manage the renewal of uranium mining continued. And so I ask how to explain the different approach of the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Industry and Trade to the use of now-lost uranium and, on the other hand, strategically increasingly significant lithium. How is it that, while the possible renewal of uranium mining is entrusted to the state-owned undertaking Diamo and there is great pressure on its further steps to re-mining uranium mining, while for strategic lithium the State is more or less giving up on the impact of its further use and yields. And just to illustrate this absurd situation, I add that the same company, with whom Minister Havlíček 2, has recently applied to the possibility of restoring uranium mining in Brzkov and its surroundings. 10. Signed today so much shaken memorandum on lithium. Believe that for the citizens of Brzkova, Věžnice, Přibyslav and others it is a situation that deprives them of their belief in a fair assessment of their rights and, on the contrary, strengthens them in the belief that the state ignores their rights, in addition, endangers the economic interests of the Czech Republic. Dear colleagues, I want to believe that we can be responsible for the issue of the use of mineral resources of the Czech Republic as well as problems perhaps for you small locations in Jihlava, where citizens really believe that we will treat their rights fairly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u92	Thank you, Mr Kaňkovský. That was the last one entered into the debate. Mr Kováčik's point in fact, and I have an ambition to end the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u93	Thank you for the floor. After all, the final contribution, but also a number of contributions before it, constantly resonated with the question that has been falling here since the beginning and which, in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, Minister Havlíček answered inadequately. I would ask that I not again be accused of attacking only Minister Havlíček, because I know that he is a memorandum, or I believe that I know that the memorandum did not arise in itself in the space in the vacuum, in the vacuum, that it is the result of other causes and perhaps other consequences. So again, with you colleagues, I ask a question that has not been answered well enough. Why, Minister Havlíček, did you sign the memorandum? And the second question: why did you sign them on October 2nd almost right before the election? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u94	Thank you. I'm asking who's reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. Since the general debate is closed, I ask if there is an interest in the final words. It's not like that. I will open the debate in detail in which I have Mr Pavel Kováčik's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u95	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madames and gentlemen, in the detailed debate, as I have promised, I will now read the resolution that I have drawn up here before the adoption of the agenda for this meeting. I therefore ask you to support the following motion for a resolution, which I do not bind to any of the previous or subsequent proposals. I want to vote on it anyway. Please pay attention to him, he can deal with many things in the future. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic declares that the memorandum signed by Minister Havlíček with European Metals Holdings is not legally binding on the Czech Republic, and the appeal to the Agreement on the Promotion and Mutual Protection of Investment between the Czech Republic and Australia, signed in Canberra on 29 July 1991, and other internationally recognised agreements on investment protection, which are mentioned in the Memorandum, do not concern the legal obligation of the Memorandum for the Czech Republic in possible arbitration disputes. It is a motion for a resolution which clearly directs us as the Chamber of Deputies that we, as legislators, do not agree with the fact that in future possible disputes that will come and which are like eggs similar to the dispute with Diag Human and so on, so that we as Chamber of Deputies say in time: let us get away from it, let us void it. And I say we make this clear because then in a few years or maybe a few months, this memorandum could be the cause of those long-running and disadvantageous arbitrations for the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u96	Thank you. Now, with another motion for a resolution, Mr Radim Fiala, as rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u97	Thank you for the floor. I also want to read in a detailed debate a resolution that has already been made in the general debate, but, for the sake of order, I will, of course, read it in detail. So the motion for a resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to carry out the extraction of lithium in the Czech Republic and the profit from this extraction remains the income of the state budget of the Czech Republic. In case of further use of lithium, it is necessary to support projects ensuring its processing in the Czech Republic by business entities based in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u98	Thank you. Now, Mr Koubek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u99	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me read in a detailed debate the motion for a resolution tabled here by the Chairman of TOP 09, Mr Michal Kučera, on his behalf. The motion for a resolution is: 1. The Chamber of Deputies notes that the government has failed to protect the economic interests of the Czech Republic regarding strategic mineral resources. 2. The Chamber of Deputies strongly recommends to the future government that the raw material policy and future legislation be substantially redesigned so as to: (a) adequate proceeds from mining have been secured for the Czech Republic; (b) a significant proportion of these yields remained in the regions affected by the extraction; and (c) the best possible conservation of nature and landscape has been consistently ensured. You also have this motion for a resolution in the system under number 6753. Thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u100	Thank you. The last party to the detailed debate is Vice-President Bartošek. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you. I shall draw up a motion for a resolution which is in the system and which concerns today's negotiations. I'll read it literally. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic is aware of the importance of protecting mineral wealth and the environment of the Czech Republic. It emphasizes the need to preserve the profits resulting from this wealth for future generations. It recalls the need to process these mineral resources primarily in the Czech Republic into products with significant added value. Therefore, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to submit an amendment to the Mining Act adapted to: 1. The State had the possibility to lay down in a normal manner which raw materials it considered strategically and for which the mining licence belongs only to it. Private firms would then only benefit from these strategic raw materials for payment to the State; 2. the level of remuneration rates could be adjusted on the basis of market price developments without limiting the time limit. And another paragraph: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to 1. support, to the maximum extent possible, the domestic industry in the final processing of mineral extraction products; 2. the profit resulting from the extraction was accumulated in the Czech Republic; 3. changed the investment incentives for foreign capital to create research centres in the territory of the Czech Republic, not only for research on the use of lithium, but also other mineral resources mined on its territory; 4. create a reclamation detention resource which would allow its restoration without impact on the state budget if the conditions of the recovery of the land affected by the mining would not be met. [[21.20 hours]] Separate paragraph: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic also supports the increase in mining fees and the establishment of the State Fund for the Future, so that the proceeds of mineral wealth are placed on a special account and applied thereafter to strategic objectives that are of long-term importance for the prosperity and stability of the Czech Republic. So much for a motion for a resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u102	I thank Vice-President Bartošek. Mr. Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u103	I just, Mr President, for the record, because the club presidents received the text of the motion for a resolution tabled by the KSČM club, but since everyone does not have it, I will also read it here again so that it is known what is being voted on: Chamber of Deputies I. takes note of the Government's information on the so-called Memorandum between the Czech Republic MIT and EMH, a.s.; II. asks the government, 1. to declare the memorandum zero due to the apparent uncertainty of its subject, 2. to immediately start working on a law which, under Article 7 of the Constitutional Act 1/1993 Coll., the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and Article 11 para. 2 The Charter of Rights and Freedoms determines that the mining and processing of lithium, rubidium and tungsten, or other ores and raw materials, may be held only by the State and be handled by undertakings owned by the State, self-governing regions and municipalities. This is the property necessary to secure the needs of the entire company, the development of the national economy and is in the public interest, 3. to propose a new law on end-users benefits in cases where strategic and other raw materials will be processed by private legal entities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u104	Thank you. So I will now conclude a detailed debate that no one is going to report to. I'll load up the apologies. The Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček and Mr Lukáš Pleticha apologizes until the end of the day. Under the agreement of Members' Club Chairs, I am now declaring a break until 21.32, for ten minutes, so that we can live up to what we have promised that all clubs will unite the voting procedure. At the same time, I'll ask the scrutinizers to be here at the end of the break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u105	It's 21.32, break's over. I ask the rapporteur and the plaintiffs if they are ready. [[Yes.]] Yes. Mr. Richard Brabec, the Minister of the Environment has asked for my word. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u106	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u107	You're opening up a debate, though. Please. So the debate is open. Deputy plaintiffs Pavel Kováčik reporting. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, after consulting in the parliamentary club or in the parliamentary clubs, I will allow myself, even in an open, detailed debate, to clarify my proposals, or to propose to the KSČM club, to clarify that the first point, what I read under I of the parliamentary club proposal, sounds different - and I will read the whole resolution again, just to be sure. Chamber of Deputies after information of the government of the Czech Republic about so-called. Memorandum between the Ministry of the Czech Republic and the company EMH a.s. asks the Government 1. to declare the memorandum zero due to the apparent uncertainty of its subject, 2. 7 Constitutional Act 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, and Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2 The Charter of Rights and Freedoms determines that the mining and processing of lithium, rubidium and tungsten, or other ores and raw materials, may be held only by the State and be disposed of by undertakings owned by the State, self-governing regions and municipalities. This is the property necessary to secure the needs of the entire company, the development of the national economy and is in the public interest, 3. to propose a new law on end-users benefits in cases where strategic and other raw materials will be processed by private legal entities. And for the last paragraph I read, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic declares that the memorandum signed by Minister Havlíček with European Metals Holdings Ltd. is not for the Czech Republic - I have read legally binding and correctly belongs there only binding. The next text then continues unchanged. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u109	Anyone else in their resolution change the text? Isn't that right? We can therefore vote on individual resolutions and ask Mr Radim Fiala's rapporteur to present and vote on individual proposals. Before the first vote - no. Read it first, and then I'll get the kvorum. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u110	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd start with a procedure. The procedure would be how we will vote on these proposals, whether whole or after points. Of course, there was an agreement here at the break, and I hope that the agreement will be confirmed now. Firstly, we would vote on the proposals put into the system. These are KDU-ČSL and TOP 09 proposals. We would be the first to vote on the KDU-ČSL proposal in its entirety. Then we would vote on the TOP 09 proposal, where we would vote separately on point 1 and then on point 2, but together with points (a), (b), (c). Then the proposal is KSČM, we would vote - sorry. We would vote in particular on point 1, in particular on points 2 and 3 and finally on point 4, which means that we would vote three times on the KSČM proposal. Point 1, then 2 plus 3 and finally point 4. And in the end, we have the SPD proposal, which has no numbers or points, which means that we would vote en bloc all of it. That, Mr President, is the proposal for a procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u111	We have eight votes ahead of us. First approve the procedure. If you insist. If not, if there is no objection, I will consider the procedure as taking it as yours, as the rapporteur has put it. And instead, we're going to find out what the deal is that we're going to vote on. I think everyone who wants to vote is here, and I'm asking everyone to sign up to see who's here. Members, of course, and Members. Thank you. [[The scrutinists shall sum up the Members present.]] Protocol, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u112	So we'd be the first to--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u113	No, wait. First the protocol, I have to report the present and thevorum. The scrutinists are gonna add it up, and I'm gonna announce as soon as I get the data... The presence on the vote of 110, the quorum is therefore 56 for approval. Thank you. We are voting on the first proposal (vote 7), which was given by Vice-President Bartošek. We all know what we're voting on. I'm asking who's in favour. [[Counting votes.]] If it's numbered, who's against it? [[Count.]] Protocol, please. Thank you. For was 39, against 20, the proposal was not accepted. A further proposal, Mr rapporteur, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u114	Yes. Thank you. Another proposal inserted into the system under number 67/53 is the motion for a resolution TOP 09. The way we took it for our procedure, we're going to vote it in two parts. First of all, item 1. I'll read it: "The Chamber of Deputies notes that the government has failed to protect the economic interests of the Czech Republic regarding strategic mineral resources."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u115	Yes. We will vote (in vote number 8). Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. [[Counting votes.]] For was 35, versus 34. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go. But since I've detected movement at the back door, I'm going to re-detect the kvorum to see if it's the same. I didn't see if any of the MPs went out so I wouldn't be accused of being different. If it was not one of the Members, then we can vote on the second paragraph of the TOP 09 motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u116	I'll read it again. Item number 2 of the motion for a resolution TOP 09: "The Chamber of Deputies strongly recommends to the future government that the raw materials policy and future legislation be revised substantially so as to: (a) adequate proceeds from mining have been secured for the Czech Republic; (b) a significant proportion of these revenues remained in the regions affected by the extraction; (c) the best possible conservation of nature and landscape has been consistently ensured."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u117	Okay. Who's in? Who's against it? [[Counting votes.]] (Vote number 9) 29 was pro, 8 against. There's no deal. The motion was not accepted. Another proposal, Mr rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u118	Yes. Another proposal is the motion for a resolution of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. In the procedure, we said we would, and we took it as our own, that we would vote three times. So the first vote will be on item 1. He says: "He asks the government to declare the memorandum nullity due to the obvious uncertainty of his subject. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u119	Including the introductory wording, which was revised in a detailed debate. Who's in? Who's against it? Affirmative. I'm gonna ask you to count the votes. Thank you. I am stating the protocol (from vote number 10). For 82, versus 1. The motion was accepted. We can vote on the next part.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u120	Point 2 of this motion for a resolution reads: "The Chamber of Deputies is asking the Government to immediately start working on the law which, according to Art. 7 Constitutional Act 1/1993 Coll., Constitution of the Czech Republic, and Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 2 The Charter of Rights and Freedoms determines that the mining and processing of lithium, rubidium and tungsten, or other ores and raw materials, may be held only by the State and be disposed of by undertakings owned by the State, self-governing regions and municipalities. This is the property necessary to secure the needs of the entire company, the development of the national economy and is in the public interest." This includes point 3: "It asks the government to propose a new law on end-user benefits in cases where strategic and other raw materials will be processed by private legal entities. "
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u121	We'll vote if the vote hasn't changed. It hasn't. Who's in? Who's against it? [[The voter count is in progress.]] It's over. (Vote number 11) 110 for 43 against 2. There was no quorum, the proposal was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u122	And from the motion for a resolution by the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, this is another point, and it reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic declares that the memorandum signed by Minister Havlíček with European Metals Holdings is not binding on the Czech Republic and appeals to the agreement on the promotion and mutual protection of investments between the Czech Republic and Australia signed in Canberra 29. 7. 1991 and other internationally recognised investment protection contracts mentioned in the memorandum are legally..." - That's probably gonna have to be read by Mr, 'cause I can't read it. [[Mr Kováčik]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u123	"... does not concern the legal obligation of the Memorandum for the Czech Republic in possible arbitration disputes."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u124	Everyone understand? Can we vote? I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? [[The voter count is in progress.]] I'm asking for a sum. Thank you. Of the 110 (in vote number 12) present for 78, against no one. The motion was accepted. [[A round of applause for a part of Members.]] The last proposal, Mr rapporteur, is your personal one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u125	Yes, the last proposal is the motion for a resolution of the SPD, which I presented in a detailed debate, and it reads: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic asks the Government of the Czech Republic to carry out the extraction of lithium in the Czech Republic and the profit from this extraction remains the income of the state budget of the Republic. In case of further use of lithium, it is necessary to support projects ensuring its processing in the Czech Republic by business entities based in the Czech Republic."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u126	Okay. Let's take a vote. Who's in? Who's against it? [[The voter count is in progress.]] I thank the rapporteur because the initiatives have been exhausted in a detailed debate. I will wait for the protocol and see the application with priority rights of Chairman TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. But please, Mr. Ambassador, when I announce the result of the vote. Vice-President Bartošek and Chairman Kováčik are also registered. From the present 110 to 68, against no one. This proposal was adopted (vote 13). I note that we have adopted the resolution in paragraphs 1 and 4 of the proposals made by Mr Kováčik and the resolution tabled by Mr Radim Fiala. Mr. Chairman TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek now has the floor. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u127	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I won't be long. But after all, since we've all spent a long afternoon and evening on this, I would very much like to sum up what we've actually said here as representatives of the people and what we're for and what we haven't said. We've spent a few hours here, one coalition party accusing the other and the other one who failed more. Here was a discussion about the failure. The 2011 movement that triggered this meeting said social democracy: you have failed, and it is a terrible tunnel. And social democracy said: and you failed even more. And the third coalition party, as it is her custom, said, and you both failed. So all three coalition parties here have told us that they have failed, but when we voted on the resolution that the government has failed - the government is made up of these three parties - the Chamber of Deputies has not expressed its approval. In other words, when anyone in the YES movement says that social democracy has done it wrong, it is not true. You voted it was a good thing the government didn't fail. And vice versa. We in opposition say that you did it wrong, that you failed. But all three coalition parties say it's the right thing to do, that Havlíček signed it well, and that Brabec signed it well, too, and that the government didn't fail. [[From the left, it's blah, blah, blah, blah, blah.]] This is one conclusion that the Chamber of Deputies has made today. Logic. No one else could have done it. Furthermore, if I stick to our resolution, we voted on the proposal to ensure adequate mining revenues for the Czech Republic. I thought this was one of the basic reasons why we were actually meeting here. The Chamber of Deputies has decided not to approve this point. This means that the Chamber of Deputies does not wish the votes of those who did not support this point to ensure adequate mining revenues for the Czech Republic, so that you who did not vote in favour of this, members of the ČSSD, the ANO movement and the KDU-ČSL... I want you to jump in again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u128	I'd like some peace! Only those who have been granted -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u129	How dare you, drunken fellow? So those who voted against simply do not want the Czech Republic to have the corresponding proceeds from mining. This needs to be summarized. Then we voted that a significant part of these revenues should remain in the region affected by mining. Neither did the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to say that the members of the ANO, the CSSD and the KDU-ČSL who did not support this point threw the North Bohemian Region overboard because they simply do not wish to remain in the North Bohemia Region if there were any proceeds. This is the logical consequence of the vote that took place. A for c), the last point that we have proposed to ensure the best conservation of nature and landscape. That didn't surprise us. We only voted for it ourselves. [[Ambassador Foldyna reporting.]] Excuse me, I'm sorry, so is Mr. Foldyna. So, apart from the minor exceptions, we voted for it ourselves, because the TOP 09, as we know, is the only party in the Chamber of Deputies, which is at the heart of conservation of nature and landscape. All of you are willing to plunder at the price that nature will not be protected, that yields will not remain in the region that is burdened with mining, and that the Czech Republic will not have adequate returns. That's what you voted for! I just wanted to tell you. Thank you for the information you gave us and the voters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u130	That was Mr Miroslav Kalousek, now Vice-President Jan Bartošek with priority rights. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u131	Thank you. My statement will also be brief. I could give my previous speaker the truth through you if it were true. But as he does, she wasn't. Since it was the first to vote on the people's resolution that contained all these points, and you did not support it as a TOP 09, I find it rather foolish to now define ourselves against our resolution, which included your proposals. I will say here for the record, except what President Kalousek said through you, the Chamber of Deputies refused to support the industry in final metal processing at the same time. She refused to accumulate the profit from this extraction in the Czech Republic. She refused to support the government's research centres - and not just for the use of lithium. And the Chamber of Deputies has refused to create a detention fund that concerns reclamation. This means, not only TOP 09, but also folks think about the ecological dimension of mining. And what I consider to be absolutely fundamental: the Chamber of Deputies refused to call on the government to set up a State Fund for the future. The Chamber of Deputies has decided that we are simply going through the present and the future. I consider this to be the biggest scoundrel. I respect that, I understand. For the sake of completeness, the resolutions that have been passed have shown a very beautiful link between the ANO, the KSČM and the SPD movement. So you tried it out, so let's see what it looks like after the election. And I say for myself, I am sorry, because at this point, the substantive content of the various resolutions was not won, in which it was possible to seek penetration, but the bickering which ultimately harms the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u132	That was Vice-President Bartošek. Now with priority right, Mr Pavel Kováčik, then again, Mr Kalousek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u133	Thank you for the floor. Madames and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank all those who, despite having a few, perhaps tens of hours before the elections, have stuck to the material plane. And so I say, in line with the plane in question, that we have called on the government here to declare the contested memorandum null and void, that we have called on the government here and stated that any arbitration is in that case beyond that the Chamber of Deputies has such an opinion, and the resolution proposed by the SPD is in a similar spirit. I, too, as my colleague Kalousek or colleague Bartošek, could be weeping or swearing that we left something or didn't leave, or that someone would even be friends with someone. I could scream that the government's coalition has ruined it, and the previous governments - not this government, and the government in which Kalousek was a colleague - have also ruined it. In 2010, the problem began! If there was a government, please, it might pass. Was it this government? She wasn't alone. No, definitely not. For us, for the KSČM club, I declare that we are not entirely okay with our proposals, government requirements, to start working immediately on a law that will determine that lithium, rubidium, tungsten, or other ores and raw materials may only be in the property of the state, etc. etc. We also don't entirely mind that you didn't agree to a government request, a courteous request, to propose a new law on end users benefits. It contains what Mr Kalousek and Mr Bartošek did not get away with. It's the same thing, maybe similar, except in other words. But because we've been dragging this topic for more than a year and because, as I said, it was often just throwing pea on the wall, etc. - another proverb could also be used - so we also say that the laws that we are talking about will continue to push for them to be adopted, we will further demand that any other government process these proposals. And if the next government does not want to defend the fundamental interests of citizens, regions and municipalities of this Republic, then we will put forward such proposals ourselves or in cooperation with you who will be really interested. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u134	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek also responded with one reminder. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u135	Sorry, just a very brief reaction from Vice-President Bartošek's speech. He was right. I would have signed it if it had been delivered by an opposition politician. If it hadn't been delivered by the Vice-President of the House and the Vice-President of the Government Party who had been in that government for four years. Then what were you doing there?! Anyway! And now on Monday, you're telling us you want to fix it by Thursday instead of apologizing for not doing anything. I would quite like to conclude that the government has indeed failed. We didn't vote. Although social democracy said that ministers for YES failed completely. Ministers for YES said that ministers for social democracy failed completely. KDU-ČSL said that yes and social democracy failed completely. If we add it up, the whole government just failed. However, when we were supposed to vote at the same time, we found out that we didn't fail, that we did it right. However, Vice-President Bartošek suggests that this should be corrected quite fundamentally, because it was all wrong before. But the four years before that, he was sitting in that government! Don't make fun of us. I really... Like the end. The government failed whether you voted or not. And after the elections, we must do one, two, three, so that the citizens of the Czech Republic are not affected by your incompetence, which you have caused these damage and potential risks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u136	While we are outside the debate, Vice-President Bartošek, who has the right of priority, continues to report. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u137	I really would not want this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies to end with the failure of the government. There are many successful steps behind this government. Not everything went well. Yes. But I can say that it has managed to keep the coalition four years through many not entirely simple situations. We didn't even have an arrest at the Office of the Government. We didn't even have corruption scandals. You could remember. We can talk about the success of this government, how successful it has been. But some things were actually avoided. And I can say that this government, even though it failed to do everything as it imagined, has done a good job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u138	Mr. Chairman Kováčik yet. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u139	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, after the resolution has been voted, some have been adopted, some have not been accepted, and some have been here forever, because it is a mush set, and it no longer tastes very good. And so I'd say the argument, whether the government, or the governments, failed or failed, we can leave it to the voters to evaluate it. I would just like to say that I thank all those who have secured this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The background of the Chamber of Deputies did not fail. Even journalists who, as I had the opportunity to see, carefully recorded and shared information have not failed. After all, the Chamber of Deputies did not fail, because at the moment when it became clear that there was a problem, we were able to meet and deal with it here and reach the end. I think that, above all, here - it is rare and it sounds strange from my mouth - but it has not failed parliamentary democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-10-16-ps2013-061-01-001-001.u140	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik. And since we're out of the debate and no one wants to speak with priority rights anymore, I hope... [[Fun in the hall.]] But in that case, I have no choice but to thank you for your participation. We have discussed the entire programme of the 61st meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, which I am now ending. Have a good night. And I'm sure we can meet on the street for the election campaign. We will meet many on other occasions, including meetings with those who will be elected. They will surely be pleased to meet in these buildings of the Chamber of Deputies after the elections. Thank you to all those who have endured to the end - Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabco, thank you to the Minister of Regional Development Karla Šlechtová, thank you, Madame, Members, and good night.
