ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u1	43. Government draft law on the management and control of public finances /German press 1001/ - first reading Once again, I ask the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, to give us this press, and I ask the rapporteur, Koníček, to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the draft law on the management and control of public finances and the draft amendment law relating thereto. The draft law replaces the existing law on financial control. The current regulation of management controls was created in the framework of the preparation of the Czech Republic for accession to the European Union and is effective for fifteen years without major changes. Practice has shown that the law in force is unsatisfactory in many ways. The draft law is presented because the current Financial Control Act does not clearly establish personal responsibility, there is no clear obligation to behave economically and the role of internal audit in the control system is not clearly defined. This results in constant driving difficulties, when it is not clear who is responsible for what. Subsequent checks shall be carried out in duplicate and shall differ in their conclusions. The draft law applies to financial controls in fourteen different types of organisations, which are more than 18,000, from the Ministry to a small municipality. The bill represents a number of attempts to reform the public finance control system. In the context of a complicated commentary procedure, it turned out that a simple amendment to the Financial Control Act was not possible. The result of negotiations with comment points was to reach a broad agreement on this text of the Act, after more than ten years of attempts to amend the Act on Financial Control. The submitted version is therefore consensual and, at the same time, is the implementation of a law clearly defined by the responsibility for the management of public administration organisations. When an official or politician signs a decision, he's responsible for it. Although the bill is associated with a proposal to extend the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, it is two separate areas. The bill regulates management control and internal audit. It only marginally affects the control of beneficiaries of subsidies, where it does not introduce any substantial changes. On the other hand, the Supreme Audit Office is part of an external control system, public control and parliament. These checks have different subjects, the way in which they are carried out and the person for whom the check is intended. It is therefore necessary to separate these two checks from each other. The Government approved the draft law on 19 December 2016. I would like to ask you to approve this material and submit it to the Senate of the Czech Republic for further consideration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u3	Thank you, Minister, and please the rapporteur, Mr Koníček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law presented is very ambitious and wants to replace comprehensively the existing law No. 320/2001 Coll., on Financial Control in Public Administration. It is as the Minister has said, for several times, but I must say that for several times, with such an extensive change, it comes just before the end of the term so that it can be said: we have tried, but it has not been negotiated. I believe that a similar fate threatens this proposal too. The proposal was preceded by extensive discussions in the framework of the comments procedure before submitting to the House, and the result is indeed a compromise, which will certainly be conducted by an extensive debate in committee. I recommend you release the first reading and order the inspection committee to be a committee of guarantee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u5	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. I have two applications so far. Mr Vilímec, please, and Mr Hovorka will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u6	Mr President, fellow Members, I do not know how long this law has been being prepared. The Minister of Finance spoke of ten years - I don't know - attempts to amend the existing law on financial control. When I look at the current term, at least two years are being talked about by the law. The law is being prepared, several times, or at least once the law has been returned by the Legislative Council of the Government, and for a long time the Ministry of Finance has failed to prepare the law so that it can be approved by the government and presented to the Chamber of Deputies. But it is finally here, which is why I would expect it to be a standard of quality, beneficial, and that it will also be a standard that will make a bit of order in the current jungle of controls, remove the duplications and allow a more qualified debate, for example, on the possible extension of the powers of control of the Supreme Audit Office. [[15.30 hours]] In his opening speech, the Minister noted that this law was much discussed in conjunction with the extension of the authority of the Supreme Audit Office to control municipalities and regions, but it has nothing to do with it. I quite agree with this, but it is interesting that in connection with this law, a pair of laws associated with the Supreme Audit Office will be discussed again tomorrow. In principle, if you recall the debate in connection with the extension or non-extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, many ministers, after all, even officials, have just pointed to this law, which should be eliminated by the so-called duplicates, because the senators, at least that's how I understood it, have refused to extend the powers of the SAO precisely with reference to the fact that they are afraid of further checks and other duplications and multipliers. Therefore, if this law was to eliminate duplication, then the proposal is insufficient for me, because, as the Minister himself said, it does not quite bring about any significant changes in the control of the granting of subsidies. I do not want to look at this law from the perspective of the supreme audit, from the point of view of, say, the whole system of governance and control of all public entities, I will look at it from the perspective of one or two segments, from the point of view of financial management of municipalities and regions, i.e. local authorities. In general, I had the opportunity to follow the external commentary procedure from the point of view of one point of view - the Union of Towns and Municipalities. I know it wasn't easy, it was always going back, that there was real effort by the Ministry of Finance to meet some or many demands, but not all the comments made by the Union were incorporated. This must also be realized. First of all, the whole existing terminology is changing in this law. For example, the authorising officer of the operation, the administrator of the budget is replaced by new deadlines such as authorising authority, authorising officer, authorising officer by delegation, evaluator, verifier and authorising officer. Of course, this change will also require a change in the relevant forms and therefore certain costs. In most cases, small municipalities do not perform control institutes in an electronic way. The authorising officer, I do not want to discuss this in such detail, should in writing instruct the authorising officer, who was originally only intended to be an employee of the relevant administrator of the public budget or public body. On the comment of the regions and municipalities, which were therefore accepted, it can also be a representative, because in the first version of the law actually representatives including the so-called. Each member of the Board of Appeal shall be appointed by the authorising officer responsible. Finally, there was some compromise on the so-called. the obligation to have internal audit, because initially the concept of the law was based on the fact that even smaller cities and municipalities must have a mandatory internal audit service. I think the compromise is acceptable, I don't want to discuss it entirely here. And if I sum up the proposal, what exactly does this new law mean? At the level of individual public bodies certainly tightening up the internal control system, undoubtedly, and enforcing the principle of control of four municipalities. Municipalities and regions, but also, and I must add that, will bring new responsibilities. Duplicity controls do not eliminate the law. They'll probably stay because of the leadership. The records of controls managed by the Ministry of Finance will not in itself prevent duplication. Indeed, this law, and in this I agree with the Minister of Finance, is not a law on the elimination of duplication. It is, above all, a law on the internal financial management and control of individual entities. It was probably hard to have ambition to eliminate the duplications, prevent duplications, just shouldn't have been reported before that year, that it was a law that would prevent duplications, remove duplications, and it was a Yetti that wasn't ready yet, but everyone talked about it. Whether this law will be better than the current law on financial control will tell time. Maybe so, but I think time will check it out. I am just worried that many specific rules in the law will be implemented, for example, in the case of small municipalities or small public entities in general, very complicated and ultimately will only lead to the formal implementation of this law. On the basis of the decision of the Organising Committee, the Guarantee Committee shall become the Supervisory Committee. I may have expected it to be more likely to be a budget committee, but since this is a control committee, I suggest, because the bill is also: a law or a bill on financial control and public finances, I suggest that the budget committee - I know it has a lot to do - but I also suggest that it be discussed at least as another committee. I think that this change is so substantial and so significant, it simply brings many consequences that the Committee on Budgets should be the next committee to discuss this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read an apology. Today, Mr Benešík extends his apology until 16 o'clock. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be next in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to say that, on the one hand, this law appears to be necessary, but on the other hand, there are considerable doubts about its impact on municipalities and small organisations. In general, when this law is put into practice and the law on financial control in public administration becomes more precise, it will no longer be possible only formally to carry out control. If anyone tries it, then it is clearly a personal responsibility for the fall of the budget, etc., for any fraud, etc. There is nowhere to hide and no formal excuses for a common system of management agendas will be possible. The official shall be obliged to refuse to carry out an operation which is outside the limits of the law and, if the superior's order persists, shall request that order in writing. This replaces partly the rules of control and, at the same time, it is written that everyone can set an internal audit according to his/her professional skills and needs. As with accounting auditors, it will be possible to order and pay an external methodology for the introduction of a control system and for checking the functionality of established and regularly implemented procedures. If this works, the number of checks should be reduced, an overview will be introduced, a new information system, a new agenda for the register of controls by the Minister of Finance for controls. A similar mechanism shall be introduced as in the case of binding double accounting. Every accountant knows what her books are supposed to look like. In this case, it will be similar. The control methodology will have binding procedures and will not be able to excuse itself on the chart of accounts, the procedural details of the checks carried out will be set up according to the complexity of the audited organisation and will be subjected to checking whether what it has set is a truly effective mechanism. As with the accounting officer, the auditor shall also take part in the audit and issue a statement on the reliability of the accounting image and the functionality of the control procedures in place. It's based on the rules of big companies, and it's written well for big companies. Larger organisations will also be allowed to make methodologies externally from suppliers, and others will be obliged by law to set up their own independent departments with full-time jobs. However, the problem in this system is the small and medium-sized municipalities, the contribution organisations established by the region or municipalities, as well as voluntary associations of municipalities. The bill is not clear on this issue. The border between small, medium and large is not precisely defined by the law. The legislator gives the opportunity to set up his own control system. You could say that for small ones you just need to make patterns for methodical control procedures and you then follow them in application practice. However, the decree annexed to this law is insufficient to support the establishment of an acceptable control methodology. It contains mainly reports and reports. The control system without graduated methodology according to size is very problematic for municipalities. [[15.40 hours]] For ease of reference, there are very few detailed examples in the explanatory memorandum. The organisation, management and control of public finances for local authorities is described in Annexes No. 1 and 2, and supported by control management schemes, but the control procedures are not described in detail. The required audit trail, i.e. Section 14, in carrying out the management economic control, shall be drawn up and kept by documents and records relating to the decision on the revenue or expenditure operation, including accounting records from which the sequence can be reconstructed when the operation is carried out and the operation verified, so-called: audit trail. This audit trail should provide information on all stages of the decision-making process and it is a legal condition for each operation to demonstrate legality and regularity even retroactively. The audit trail is a term that is used collectively for all types of documents that demonstrate the execution of any activity in the internal management and control system. It is right and necessary to set binding rules for checks, but only those that are possible in practice. Unclear definition only raises concerns about nonsensical complications in commonly used procedures. The law itself and the decrees annexed to the law are insufficient support for the establishment of a recognised method of control, especially for small and medium-sized municipalities, the contribution organisations established by the region or municipalities as well as voluntary associations of municipalities. The content of the table of data on internal audit performances and the Decree on reporting in the management and control of public finances does not give the slightest idea of adequate control procedures for an acceptable control methodology. Municipalities cannot be forced to hire audit firms to compile control methodologies to check them as effective as possible. The Act should be supplemented by a separate decree with a graduated methodology of control according to size, in particular for small and medium-sized municipalities, contribution organisations established by the Region or the municipality and also for voluntary associations of municipalities. I believe that this is indeed a problem, and until this is clarified, I think that the law is not eligible for approval. I therefore intercede for the required decree to be tabled, because otherwise I cannot imagine that this law will fall with full seriousness on the part of the municipalities and the municipalities will not be able to deal with it either for a very large bureaucracy or for expensiveness and also because, in fact, the processes that are affecting the municipalities are constantly complicated. I believe that what is written in that law, for example. for universities or municipalities, this law applies mutatis mutandis, it is absolutely insufficient and it is not possible to approve the law in such a case without having a clear impact on the smaller organisations and municipalities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u9	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jan Klán, who has been duly applied for, will now appear. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Government, colleagues. Let me say a few words about this bill. Don't worry, I won't be here long. Some dozen minutes. I will also pause here to see why such an important law and a truly anti-corruption law come so late. I've talked about this many times before when we had a public procurement law here, that we also lack the law on public finance management and control. That's the ex ante check. At the beginning of the process. We really miss her. All the time, all the time. The first was the Public Procurement Act, which we managed to approve here after some long peripetia. And now here we have another really anti-corruption law. There's two of them, like I said. Public Procurement Act and Public Finance Management and Control Act. I'm very curious about how we can, and we can quickly discuss this really important law. Let's be aware of that. He kept putting this law into context, for example. It was with me mentioned in the Public Procurement Act and at the same time it was connected with the register of contracts, when some here were punched in the chest, that it was an anti-corruption law. And he's not. It is this law and the law on public procurement. Since there have been many talks here, and my previous speakers have mentioned the municipalities here how it will affect them or how it will apply to them, to universities and so on. This is where we see the connection with the other laws. And in order to avoid delaying it - I will, of course, also prepare comments for second reading - I suggest that this bill should also be dealt with by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u11	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. Mr Adamec with a point of fact. Or is it a proper application, Mr. Ambassador? Really. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, well, I don't know if it's anti-corruption law. But after listening here, I'm pretty sure it's another red tape. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u13	Thank you, too. Once again, I ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude the general debate and ask the appellant and the rapporteur whether you want to take the final floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u14	I would just like to reiterate that three proposals have been made for the commandment. The Guarantee Committee of the Audit Committee, as well as the Budget and Public Administration and Regional Development Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-005-043.u15	Thank you. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the motion submitted for discussion to the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee. And if I have understood correctly - there was a counterproposal in the debate. No. So these are other committees for the commandment. Very well. I wonder if anyone else is proposing a commandment to another committee as a guarantee. I can't see. Before I vote, I'm going to sign you all off and ask you to sign up with your cards again. I'll repeat the vote. We will vote on who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the inspection committee as a guarantee committee. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with serial number 236. 110 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 109, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Supervisory Committee as a guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee. I am now asking the rapporteur. There are two commandments - the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Regional Development. So, first of all, we will vote - I am opening the vote - who agrees that this press should also be directed to the Committee on Budgets to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 237. 113 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 85, against 4. This proposal has been approved. [[15.50 hours]] I will also begin the vote and ask who is in favour of this press being ordered to discuss the Committee on Regional Development, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 238. 116 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 109, against 1. I therefore note that this proposal has been further ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Regional Development. The proposal to shorten the time limits was not made. That means thank you and I end the first reading of this press. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
