ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-003-003.u1	3. Information on the establishment of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies and the election of its officials Here we will hear information about the establishment of the electoral commission of the Chamber of Deputies and the election of its officials. The list of members of the electoral committee according to their membership in the parliamentary clubs has been distributed to you on desks. I ask the elected President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, to introduce us to its members. I ask the members of the electoral committee to rise at the reading of their name, and then the President of the electoral committee will inform us of the outcome of the first meeting of the committee. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, fellow Members and fellow Members, I wish you a good afternoon. Allow me to appear before you on behalf of the first elected body of the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. the Election Commission. I would also like to introduce myself to you newcomers in one sentence. As has already been said, my name is Martin Kolovratník, I had the honour of being President of the Election Commission during the previous parliamentary term. I believe she worked effectively, fair and balanced against all political entities in the House. I want to express my wish that the Commission should work in this parliamentary term as well. I look forward to working with all of you. Now the information I have prepared for you officially as an exit from this electoral commission. I note that, in accordance with points 2 and 3 of Article 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, on 14 November 2017, a group of Members, the so-called initiating group delegated by parliamentary clubs on the basis of parity, met under the direction of Mr Jiří Dolejš, on the basis of the principle of proportional representation of 19 members. As Mr President has already announced, I will now ask that I present the individual elected members of the Commission to stand up after reading their name, so that the House knows who will follow them through the election throughout the term. I will represent the members of the Election Commission in alphabetical order. [[13.50 hours]] These are the following Members: Stanislav Berkovec for the ANO movement, Alexander Černý for KSČM, Petr Dolínek for social democracy, Dominik Feri for the TOP 09, Stanislav Fridrich for the ANO, Jakub Janda for the ODS, Monika Jarošová for the SPD, Martin Kolovratník - my person, Barbora Kořanová for the ANO, Věra Kovářová for the STAN, Vojtěch Munzar for the ODS, Patrik Nacher for the ANO, Ondřej Polanský for the Pirates, and my colleague Jan Pošvář for the Pirates, and the gentlemen for the Pirates, so we have an overview of them, Pavel Pustějovskýějovský for the ANO, Petr Sadovský, also for the ANO movement, Lucie Šafránková for the SPD, Helena Válková for the ANO movement and finally Marek Výborný, nominated KDU-ČSL. The electoral commission thus established, which is 19 members, met for the first time last week on Wednesday, 15 November 2017. Martin Kolovratník, Vice-President of Mrs Monika Jarošová, elected as SPD President of the Election Commission, and at this time also has two verifiers, members of Stanislav Berkovec and Jan Pošvář. I would also like to inform you that on 14 November the group of Members, the initiating group responsible for the establishment of the electoral committee, unanimously approved the proposal that the Chamber of Deputies should take note of the establishment of the electoral committee of the Chamber of Deputies for the elections held by this House and for nominations requiring the approval of the Chamber of Deputies for the entire parliamentary term, i.e. for the entire eighth term. It is in accordance with § 47 para. Article 1 (7) of the Rules of Procedure and Article 1 (7) of the Rules of Procedure. I would therefore now like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution by vote, in which it takes note of the establishment of the Election Commission of the Chamber of Deputies, for elections held at the House of Deputies and for elections held by the Chamber of Deputies and for nominations requiring the approval of the Chamber of Deputies in the eighth term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-20-ps2017-001-01-003-003.u3	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I will open the debate on this issue, however, I would like to point out to you that, pursuant to § 116 (1) of the Treaty, 2 of our Rules of Procedure take note of the House's establishment of a commission, i.e. that it is not possible to propose other members in the debate. The resolution proposed is: "The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the establishment of an electoral commission of the Chamber of Deputies, for elections held at the Chamber of Deputies and for elections held by the Chamber of Deputies and for nominations requiring the approval of the Chamber of Deputies during the eighth parliamentary term, in this composition - and a list will be attached. So I am now opening the debate and I will ask if anyone wishes to speak. If not, I am done with the debate. We shall therefore proceed to the first vote at this meeting. I beg you all to sign up with your identification cards so that it is clear how many people are present in the hall and we will therefore vote. I have read the resolution. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? I now aha this vote confusing, given that Mrs Vildumetzová's voting system does not work. After the correction, we will repeat the vote. It is okay, so we will vote once again on this motion for a resolution. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? So it's vote number two. It's registered 198, for 194, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I take it we've exhausted everything from point three, so I'm done. Opening point
