ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u1	292. Government bill amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house print 821/ - second reading We're at second reading this time. This is because at the third reading on Wednesday, January 11, we agreed to the proposal for a second reading of this proposal. It is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1495 at our 54th meeting. Madam Secretary of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksová, and the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, who is a guarantee committee, Mrs Gabriela Pecková, are already at the rapporteur's table. I ask the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs whether she wishes to speak at this second reading. That's right. Madam Secretary, I will ask the House for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is not easy, we returned it from the third reading to the second reading. I would like to hear the opening words of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Michaela Marksův, in a really calm and dignified environment. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u2	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament, I will just remind you very briefly that this is an amendment to the Health Insurance Act, which contains a number of different changes. One big issue is the introduction of a paternity postpartum benefit. Another is that the amount of sickness is adjusted for a member of a voluntary firefighter unit, the conditions for granting orphan pension are reduced. That's probably the main thing. And this, I remind you why you voted that the proposal had returned to second reading, was that, in addition to the voluntary firefighters of the municipality, other rescue forces would also get into the same regime and that the amendment introducing this would be in line with what the Ministry of the Interior wanted to write precisely. So I don't actually see the problem here, but it was actually to satisfy the other rescue units to get to the same level as the voluntary firefighters of the village, and for time reasons before that first amendment was tabled, but it was technically imperfect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u3	Thank you, Minister Michaela Marksová, and I ask if the rapporteur wants an opening word. It's not like that. I can therefore open the debate. I have two applications for this in the general debate so far. With priority right of the club chairman - no, without priority rights, so in that case Mr Miroslav Opálka was the first in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, I would just like to say: (a) I am glad that we have also worked out the groups that have been forgotten. (b) There was enough time and opportunity to deal with the situation from the first to the fourteenth day of the disease. Firefighters, in particular, seem to be okay with having sick leave from day 15, unless - and I do not wish them to do so - they fall into it. So they didn't develop any internal initiative to solve it, so as with the quarantine, even in these cases the disease was paid by the Czech Social Security Administration. So it is pointless to go on some initiative when the one involved is not developing the initiative itself on this matter. It's just for the record. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u5	I thank Mr Miroslav Opálek. Mr. Chairman of ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would like to introduce you to the content of House document 5550, which is an amendment by me and the rapporteur, Mrs Gabriela Pecková. I'll read it to you first, and then I'll explain it to you, because even the text is interesting. The amendment is: The following amendments and Articles shall be deleted: Article I (1) to (8), points 10 to 14, points 16 to 18, Article II (1) and (2), Article III shall be deleted whole and Article IV (1) and (2), Article VI shall be deleted whole and Article VII shall be deleted whole. If I wanted to be as brief as the Minister's first reading is sometimes, I would say, "Well, that's actually everything, and that's how it's simple and that's actually how we simplify it." You can see for yourself where a fatherly vacation occurs in that bill. The proposal aims to avoid introducing a new social benefit called paternity leave. Then maybe I'll ask the secretary if she really means any of the sentences of the defense attorneys to the bill. For example: The introduction of paternity leave will help solve the problem of a faster return of mothers to work. That is what I have heard from the advocates of this proposal and this new social welfare. So just for those who haven't read it in full detail - it's one week and there are two options. That's either custody, or the first six weeks after birth. So I don't know if in the first six weeks after childbirth, when the sixth week will be taking paternity leave, if it will contribute to the faster return of mothers to employment. I don't think so. But I don't want to just ironize it. I really want to be serious. I think that the state is failing - and notice that I say the state and I do not say this government - in order to motivate employers economically to support actively shortened jobs, shared jobs, home offices and similar modern forms of work that can really contribute to making mothers, if they want, back into employment and to better combine professional and family life. But the state doesn't do anything. There's a lot of talk about it, but a good employer, and we have a lot of them, even in small companies, it's not just where the unions are, it's what they do, and especially women offer short-term jobs, flexible hours, shared jobs, work from home, and so on, because they know that it's very valuable to the company when this woman already works for employers. And what does the state say? Nothing! No economic motivation. So that's just whether he's an enlightened employer, and I'm saying, we don't have a few who do it, they're not bonified for it. Of course, it's a complication for the company's organization, but the complication pays off. And instead of the government coming up with some elaborate motivational program for employers, they'll figure out what? New welfare. [[17.30 hours]] The argument is they've already got it somewhere else. That's a true argument. It's longer somewhere. That's also a true argument. But this does not contribute to the goal of helping employers to take greater account of the harmony of professional and family life. As usual, not surprisingly, the government forgot about the CFI. Basically, this tool does not help, it does not improve the situation of the CFI, on the contrary, to those who have few employees, so they can complicate the functioning of the company. There is a big difference if you have 300 employees and one takes paternity leave, or you have three employees and one takes paternity leave. That's a big problem. The favourite argument of the Minister and colleagues on the left - they pay little, let them pay more, then they could draw such an advantage. Those are really princely advice. These are truly pointless counsel, and it does not help at all. The proposal isn't cheap. I didn't check, but the estimate is CZK 750 million a year. And you know how it is. Once you've introduced a social benefit, it's almost impossible to cancel it. Let's be honest about that. That's why it's better not to introduce it at all than to say, the next time there's another government, there'll be a chance to cancel it or modify it. It's almost like a political fairy tale or a political fiction. I myself am experiencing what is happening to our proposals for a transitional period that we have adopted. They're happy to keep paying. It's been for a year, it's been seven years, it's been three years, it's been five years. And that is the political reality. Anyone who says otherwise isn't telling the truth. And we in this justification for the explanatory report, and perhaps the rapporteur will complement me, say that the introduction of paternity leave will in no way be able to address the crisis of a traditional family, which certainly exists. It is not only a problem of the Czech Republic, but it is a problem of European civilization as a whole, a tendency to individualism and the like, incomplete families etc. We would make much better use of the 750 million crowns if we supported traditional families. If we were to support, for example, families where these children really have a problem, whether social or economic. No, we're gonna come up with a flat, new social benefit that isn't really good for anything. No real help was given to the families in the proposal by the petitioners and advocates. Maybe it'll be in the debate tonight. I am glad to have repeated second reading, and my colleague and I are giving you a chance not to introduce a new social benefit. To consider this one more time, to say, let us invest the 750 million in a sensible family policy. That seems more effective than introducing this. And really, try to look at the arguments in that document. Think about the businessmen, too, self-employed. It doesn't really help them. Paper, yes, but not really. So to all the other responsibilities that we're actually taking them through this entire term, you've reduced spending limits twice, you've given them a lot of new responsibilities, so you're giving them a chance, but they're not really going to be able to draw on it. So here we're introducing some inequality in how kids support each other based on how parents feed on each other. And the inequality isn't right. The state should support everyone equally. At the same time, I say that if another, better proposal comes, how to invest the money under consideration, the whole billion, in family policy or for family policy, we will certainly support it and we are ready for such a debate. We're excited. I just want to ask you once again when we vote at the third reading to consider this one more time before we introduce it. There's no way we're gonna be able to cancel it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u7	I thank the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. Now, with Mrs Jana Hnyková's factual remark. We are still in the general debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u8	Thank you for the floor. I would like to say to President Stanjur that this is, after all, a benefit that we, for example, consider to be of great benefit to families where a child comes into the world, and that father has the right or the opportunity to stay home at six-days with that woman. I think it's a dose that will, I hope, be used effectively and make things better. It's not easy. Today, young families leave for work, very often their parents are out of reach, so the father has to help. And those of you who had the birth, and I had it in my family at the moment, too, so I saw that even though the birth was in order, that Mom needed help in the beginnings, and I think that this is really one of the doses that is pro-family and to strengthen the relationship between mommy and daddy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u9	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. That was her point of fact. I ask who goes on to the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. Before I ask for the final words, Madam Secretary is interested. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u10	Thank you. I'll take this very briefly. It's about those dads who pay for their sickness insurance. And then, if they want to take it out of this insurance they've taken away, they can draw it back. And I must say that already today families are asking about the employment offices whether this dose is already in place because they are interested in it. But of course, whoever isn't interested, he's just not gonna use it. Anyway, I think that's gonna be an interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u11	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking the rapporteur if she's interested in the final word. It's not like that. There has been no proposal, which is after the general debate on the return of the law to the guarantee committee, so we can start a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. First up, I have Jana Pastuchová's envoy. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u12	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apply to the amendment under number 5543, which is just amended so that it is actually not just volunteer firefighters, but also the other components of the integrated rescue system that the Minister was talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u13	Thank you. Who's next in a detailed debate? Mr Zbyněk Stanjura in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u14	Now it's just formal. I am signing up for an amendment that is being conducted in the system as House Document No 5550. On the one hand, I said the reasons, and on the other hand, they are also in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-006-292.u15	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. I'm asking who else in the detailed debate. Okay. I've had one more show, but okay, it's not like that. In that case, I also conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. There has been no proposal after a detailed debate, which means that the deadline between second and third reading and the veto of two parliamentary clubs has been reduced. In that case, I can end item 292. Thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and we will continue. Before I open another point, I will make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, an apology to the end of the day of the hearing by Mrs Kristýna Zelienková, Minister Marian Jurečka from 17.30 and Mr Vojtěch Adam for health reasons. The next item is point 10. It's about
