ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u1	78. Government bill amending Act No. 108/2006 Coll., on Social Services, as amended, and some related laws /house print 1081/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u2	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament, this amendment on social services actually brings a few more complex changes after ten years since its inception, since its effectiveness. The aim of this proposal is, in particular, to reflect the current requirements of practice so that the legislation corresponds to the needs of all actors involved in the provision of social services. At the same time, we want these proposed amendments to allow the provision of social services tailored to the type of adverse social situation, so that citizens also better focus on where to turn, who can provide them with assistance and support in their particular adverse social situation. I'd like to mention a few changes here. Firstly, the amount of the 4th degree care allowance increases, i.e. it is a full dependence, where we propose an increase of 6,000, from 13 200 to 19 200, where the aim of increasing this amount is to support the provision of assistance to informal caregivers, especially those close to households, and to prioritizing field and outpatient social services to residential services. This proposal is really for those who are at home, not for those who are somewhere in constitutional facilities. In fact, when the cost of the person at home and the increased contribution are compared to the cost when the person is in a facility, of course, the home care despite this increase is still much cheaper. At the same time, there are measures that improve the quality of social services and at the same time reduce the administrative burden for providers. Furthermore, we propose that the social protection services of children be transferred to the social services system. And in this context, new social services, homes for children for a transitional period and family services are being created, which removes the previously undesirable double-trackness of the provision of services to one and the same target group. At the same time, support for families with three or more children is being increased. At present, these families are entitled to free services, but those services can only be cared for by the household, they must not physically care for the children, so this is extending directly to childcare services as well, because today the caregivers are not actually allowed to take care of the children. At the same time, there is a very important new type of social service provided to persons in terminal condition and to those close to it, which will be provided both in stone hospices and also in domestic palliative care. You may also know that, in fact, hospice care and care for the dying are not properly enshrined in legislation at the moment. At the same time, authorisation is provided for the implementing decree to plan social services with specific rules, allowing the Ministry of Labour to supervise the content of regional social services plans, which are the compulsory basis for the application for grants. It also regulates the financing and planning of social services by establishing uniform rules for the entry of services into the network. We want current funding requirements to become mandatorial expenditures. I think I've already listed the main points here, otherwise, of course, there are more of these changes. I thank you for your attention and I believe you will release this amendment to the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u3	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. I ask now that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jana Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me give you my intelligence report. It will be a bit more extensive, because social services are my heart's business, I have worked in them for a long time, and therefore, when such a large, extensive amendment to the Social Services Act comes, I would like to pay due attention to it. [[15.10 hours]] I want to say that there are 169 points in the law itself that change this law, 18 points of transitional measures, but they also have an impact on other laws such as the Law on aid in material distress, the Act on the organisation and implementation of social security, the amendment of the Act on the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic and the amendment of related laws. Furthermore, changes are reflected in the Health Services Act and, above all, extensive changes are made to the Child Social Protection Act in the number of 62 points and 11 points of the transitional provisions. Let me introduce you to this material so that we can decide what to do with this law together, because, as I said, I have worked in social services for a long time and I care that the best law should come into practice and not only be for the benefit of our clients, users, providers, employees and other players. As the Minister has already said, she quoted from the explanatory memorandum, the current legislation does not fully meet the needs of the practice and needs of the subjects in the provision of social services. It contains some redundant provisions, or even some provisions are vaguely defined. It lacks a more detailed regulation of measures dealing with the solution of human rights of clients. The aim of the change is to optimize, clarify and simplify the social services and services system provided on the basis of a mandate to exercise social and legal protection for children. Furthermore, the amendment to the Act should increase the stability of the social services system, deepen public administration cooperation and strengthen inter-ministerial cooperation, which should lead to significant efficiency and also increase the quality of clarity in the way of financing and planning the social services system. The main objective of the proposed legislation is that the social services provided meet the needs of clients better and are more accessible and more effective for clients, citizens and other actors in the social services system. The offer for citizens is not sufficiently clear or clearly defined; for social service providers themselves, the system is excessive administratively burdensome. I agree with this, in practice, social service providers do not really have it easy. The proposal will allow the provision of social services, as has already been mentioned, to be tailored through a more precisely defined basis for providing social services to the client in his adverse social situation. The client should better focus on where to turn and who can provide him with help and support in his particular situation. The process of registering social service providers is adapted to eliminate functional and procedural deficiencies, including the lack of specification of certain requirements. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs may also decide to introduce forced administration in breach of quality standards and serious infringements. The Ministry shall inform the competent registering authority of the introduction of the compulsory administration, notify it of the name of the social service provider, the name of the forced administrator and its identification data, the period for which the administration is established. I'll come back to that later. In the area of financing social services, a reduction in corruption risks can be expected. The selection of providers financed from public funds should take place - and I consider this to be very important - in the form of a competition for inclusion in the social services network, and at the same time the main conditions for the choice of providers should be laid down. When competing for the most appropriate tender, it will be compulsory to ensure compliance with the principles of transparency, non-discrimination, proportionality and re-examination of these conditions and to treat all social service providers who are registered uniformly. In this case, I do not share with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs that everything will go smoothly, and I think that these conditions will be problematic for some services, perhaps just for lack of funds. The delegation for the provision of a service of general economic interest shall be issued for at least a period of support for the social service in the relevant financial year, for a maximum period of 10 years. I would then like to ask the Minister how these specific measures will be set up, whether the providers are already familiar and how the entire tendering procedure will take place. It is a guarantee not only for providers, but also for employees and for clients of these services. I would also like to introduce you to other changes in the law. The Social Services Act regulates the conditions for the pursuit of the occupation of a social worker not only for the field of social services but also for the other ones listed in Section 1 (1). 2 of the Act, which concerns public administration, mainly workers at municipal and regional offices. In connection with the transfer of existing social services provided not on the basis of the registration of social services but on the basis of the issuance of a mandate for the exercise of social-legal protection of children, under the Act on Social-Legal Protection of Children into the Act on Social Services. This is highlighted by many organizations that do not agree with this, from the Association of Providers, the National Council of Disabilities to the Charity of the Czech Republic. The proposed increase in care allowance at the fourth stage aims, as has already been said here, to increase the income of people at the highest level of dependence that do not benefit from residence services. At the same time, the amount of support is increased in cases where care is secured by an informal care provider, ideally using outpatient or field services. The amount of 19,200 I think is very important and motivating to care for people in the home environment. I just don't have the connection to professional help caring, more control mechanisms, how it will be cared for. For your information, this concerns an estimated 25,000. People. I have a positive assessment of the change in the initiation of the care allowance procedure after five days from the submission of the application. Perhaps there will be enough staff and assessors at the Czech Social Security Administration to deal with this administrative procedure as soon as possible. The purpose of the proposal is to contribute to shortening the overall period of administrative proceedings on the contribution to care. It is also proposed to extend the shredding period for the preservation of documents and files of the care allowance from 15 years to 50 years, due to the fact that the Office of the Labour Office of the Czech Republic is able to fulfil the obligation imposed in § 29 para. 6, i.e. the obligation to issue a written certificate to a person close to or an assistant to social services demonstrating the duration of care for the purposes of material emergencies, health insurance, pension insurance and employment. I hope that the labour authorities are prepared for this, that the premises and the workers will be chosen to do so. [[15.20 hours]] New community centers are being established. These are public multi-purpose facilities where community members should meet to carry out social, educational, cultural and recreational activities in order to improve the social situation of these individuals and communities as a whole. In order to achieve these objectives, there is a combination of community and public services provided in the facility, at least basic social advice, social services in outpatient and field form with a focus on addressing the adverse social situation and social inclusion. Spatial equipment of integration centres must always allow mutual contacts between target group members and their contacts with social professionals. I am concerned about the introduction of this service. If it were the citizens of the Czech Republic, it would be okay. But I'm worried that these centers aren't preparing themselves for the refugees who are being moved to us, that we have to accept them here. I hope that the Minister and I will explain more specifically about this service. Due to the specific target group, marital and family counseling is included in the newly created family service. Furthermore, the range of persons to whom professional social advice is provided is supplemented and extended by the caring natural persons. The definition in the Social Services Act will make carers the target group of social services, which are considered a key instrument for supporting informal carers. It's okay from there. I just miss it here and I think it is necessary to say that it is not only important to advise those informal carers, but also to prepare, to be educated in this demanding care for your loved one, support, supervision and psychotherapy. The basic activities provided in the social service are expanded, the personal assistance is supplemented by other basic activities, namely social therapeutic activities. At the same time, the addition of this basic activity responds to the needs of practice, when it turns out that the service of personal assistance needs to be more distinguished from the care service. In addition, the basic activities provided in the care service are extended and basic activities are complemented by educational, educational and activation activities and assistance in the application of legitimate interests and in the provision of personal matters. The extension of the basic activities provided complements activities aimed not only at the service and care of the client, but also at its development and support in order to obtain certain competences. At the same time, the service will offer activities that will promote the social inclusion of clients. It has already been mentioned that the current legislation on nursing services contains basic activities that help children's parents only with accompanying activities, that is, with cleaning and purchasing, and the aim is to support especially families in which three or more children were born at the same time, in basic situations that parents cannot cope with in respect of the number of children. There are proposed new basic activities aimed at helping these parents. At the birth of triplets and multiples, where families are to be provided care-free services, the regions have refused to finance this care service because it is an unexpected event for which the regions are unable to keep reserves in their budget. These are case units and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs deals with these cases by covering the amount of funds that it retains to emergency situations. Therefore, the subsidy title in Section 104 is added to this case. In the case of relief services, it is proposed to set the maximum period for the provision of this service in such a way that its purpose is fulfilled, i.e. to allow the caring person sufficient necessary rest, for only 90 days. The proposal results from experience gained from the provision of this service, where clients are accommodated for a long time in most cases in the lightening services, and this kind of service effectively subservients the provision of residential services, for example, in homes for seniors. I'm asking why this time is so limited. If I'm out of surgery and I'm taking care of my mommy or daddy and I need, for example, four months to heal, then I'm gonna have to cheat. Basic activities provided in the social service of home for people with disabilities extend to other basic activities, namely pastoral and spiritual care, psychosocial support for dying and helping loved ones, dealing with trauma associated with dying and death of a loved one, which I consider commendable, but I think today's residence facilities are already doing this without it being in the law. I am very positive about the proposals for change that propose the unification of social services home for seniors and home with a special regime. At present, the practice of providing social services does not fundamentally separate these species. In senior homes there are clients who already fall into the target group of special regime, and vice versa. One of the other objectives of this measure is to reduce the administrative burden, as there are now two registrations needed, and only one will be sufficient after a change to both kinds of homes. Another goal will be to remove from the service name a special regime that is segregate and stigmatizing. There's nothing more to agree with than that. Therefore, only one service - a social welfare home, which will be intended for a broad target group of persons, which the provider specifies when registering, will be adapted. According to the registered circle of persons, the mode of the device will then be set. Social services for clients in terminal condition are inserted into the Social Services Act. The Palliative Care Providers and Social Services Providers are not regulated in the current legislation, but this has already been mentioned by the Minister. [[Noise in the hall.]] Furthermore, I find it very controversial that the legislation on the social protection of children exempts devices requiring immediate assistance and establishes homes for children for a transitional period, which they will provide, as it is written in the explanatory report, assistance and residence services to minors who are in a state of lack of proper care or without care appropriate to their age, in particular as a result of death or hospitalization of parents or as a result of loss of housing or other crisis situation in the family, or if their life, normal development or other important interest is seriously threatened or disturbed, which are physically or mentally abused or abused or which are in an environment or situation which seriously endangers their fundamental rights. This is a situation where for serious reasons none of the parents can take care of the child during the transitional period and at the same time the guardian, foster child or other caring person cannot provide for the care of the child. In the general debate, I would then like to say one more time on this subject. It is also proposed to change the local jurisdiction of the registering authority, which decides on the authorisation of the provision of social services. Under current legislation, the registration of a social service provider shall be decided by the regional authority responsible for the place of permanent or reported residence of a natural person or by the registered office of the legal person requesting registration. It is necessary to comply with the statutory requirements for the granting of a social service authorisation, but the individual registration conditions are not assessed in the same way in all regions for all social service providers. It is therefore proposed to establish the local jurisdiction of the registering authority according to the place of provision of social services so that the regional authority decides to register all social services provided in the territory of the region. [[15.30 hours]] The authorisation provisions for the issue of implementing legislation to be adapted to the provisions of that provision for the provision of social services shall be added. The minimum material and technical standard will be set only for residential social services provided in the lightening service in homes for disabled persons, weekly staff, social care homes, sheltered homes and homes for children for a transitional period. The basis of the staffing standard is to establish an inextricable number of social services personnel to ensure the safety of social services clients. I have a big problem with this whether there will even be funds to evaluate this work. I would also like to ask the Minister on this occasion how it looks with our resolution, which we adopted here at the last meeting in the Chamber of Deputies on the salaries of employees in social services. I am concerned that this impenetrable number of social services personnel is not the standard and that the quality of social services is not getting any worse. In the law it is proposed to allow the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to decide to cancel registration. The aim of the proposal is to respond to the acute detection of breaches of human rights and freedoms, or to other life and health threats to infringements of the obligations of the provider of social services inspections. This regulation aims to increase protection of clients' rights. That's all right, but what about unregistered devices? I'm asking how the device will be dealt with without registration. There shouldn't be any such facilities. I assumed it would be regulated in this law. Unfortunately, the changes concern only the equipment registering. Another amendment includes the amendment of the provisions on measures limiting the movement of persons, emphasising the use of measures as an extreme means of action in a specific situation. Application of § 89 to situations of long-term, lasting, or even as a precaution of ensuring the client's normal safety is inappropriate in the existing design of the provisions. The control mechanisms provided for are insufficient in the case of such an extensive concept of restrictive measures. It is therefore proposed to consult the medical documentation. I think there should be greater cooperation between doctors and social workers within the facilities. I consider serious determination of the necessary consent of the court to the contract for the provision of residence social services to a child under 15 years of age without an adult being accompanied for a period exceeding six months is also aimed at ensuring equal access to children who, without the assistance of an adult, may find themselves in various collective residence care establishments. In this context, it is not without the importance that the placing of a child in a school facility for the exercise of constitutional education in order to ensure its provision can be carried out only on the basis of a decision of the court, not on the basis of a contract concluded by the legal representatives of the child or by another person entitled to represent the child. This means that children who are out of the system and are now placed in these facilities under contract will no longer be able to be here. I know it's terrible, but where are they going? The newly introduced obligation to inform the municipal authority with extended competence of the Regional Authority of the facts suggesting the provision of social services without authorisation aims to combat the provision of illegal social services more effectively and thus to ensure external assistance to those using these services. I consider it inadequate. In the current wording of the Act, although the obligation of municipalities to co-create the conditions for ensuring the needs of persons in the territory of the municipality is laid down, it is necessary to specify that it is primarily the possibility of participating in the financing of social services included in the regional social services network. The specific agreement on the degree of co-financing and which services will be co-financed from municipal sources is always between the region as the creator of the regional network and individual municipalities. Paragraph 94 (b) is added. (g) and (h) and related to that under Section 3 (h). (h) a medium-term plan for the development of social services is a strategic document of the municipality or region. Therefore, if a medium-term plan for the development of social services can be created by law and by the municipality, it should also be possible to establish a municipal network of social services and keep records of social service providers who provide services included in that network. Moreover, the proposed amendment is equivalent to the provisions relating to the social services network and the list of providers of social services at regional level. I am asking at this point - will the municipalities have enough funds and employees to do so? Another major change is in the field of quality standards. The quality of the provision of social services is defined by the obligations laid down in Section 88. These are the basic definitions for the criteria of the standard of quality of social services, which remain part of the implementing decree. The criteria are newly divided into five areas: the guarantee of social services, the process of providing social services, the human rights area, documentation management and cooperation. It is therefore necessary to adapt the definition of the quality standard. This means that the current equipment would have to revise all current standards in order to actually comply with this provision. In the introduction, I informed you of the proposal that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs may introduce forced administration to social service providers if there are serious findings of breaches of the provider's obligations during the inspection of the provider of social services. In order to ensure the protection of client rights, it is necessary, according to the Ministry, to take a more robust measure, which does not allow legislation at the same time. The introduction of forced administration will be possible if deficiencies are identified to such extent that they endanger the life or health of the provider's clients and at the same time it is not possible to decide to cancel the registration by the provider. The obliged administrator is an employee of the Ministry; he may recruit other persons to carry out this activity. These persons are engaged in compulsory administration on the basis of an employment relationship or on the basis of a civil contract concluded with the Ministry. From the point of view of the client, this is an important measure to protect his rights and dignity, but following experience of inspection control, this may be a threat, because when we take it from both sides, the evaluation of inspectors is subjective. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The economic question of this law. The qualified estimate of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs to increase expenditure from the state budget is 1.8 billion. I think it's going to be double. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the liberty of informing you of all these changes, which I consider very important. I wanted to say this at the plenary of this Chamber of Deputies. A number of points are beneficial for social services, but there are a number of points that make life very difficult for employees in social services and their providers. I would like to hear the answers to the questions raised in the report, and thank the Minister for that in advance. Thank you for your attention. Mr President, I would ask you that I then speak in a general debate with my contribution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u5	I'm sure you can, rapporteur. Thank you for your brief intelligence report. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Miroslav Opálka first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u6	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, so we waited about two years and were curious about the announced big amendment to the Social Services Act, and finally, on 31 March, really last minute, we waited. We have received a government proposal for a novel where I am reluctant to use a large attribute, even if the bill consists of 39 pages, respectively. 52 pages with amendments to accompanying laws. From the explanatory memorandum to the government bill, we learn that the aim of the changes should be mine. increasing the stability of the social services system and deepening public administration cooperation. In summary, changes in the law should make the quality of the services provided significantly more effective and more effective, and the definition of services should be more understandable for both providers and users. There should also be a clarification of how to finance and plan the system, and I will get there. In my speech, I will not draw attention to all the problems that I believe need to be addressed in this area. The law adopted by the Parliament of the Czech Republic in 2005, I note that in the Chamber of Deputies across all, or political spectrum, is not, however, the happiest solution, not even after its 29 amendments, and therefore I would assume systemic approaches for the announced major amendment. We have introduced a system of social services in a market environment, mostly for public money, and we assumed that users, in particular the recipients of the care allowance, would buy the necessary services that were granted to them during the social and health investigation. However, a small part does not return these social benefits to the system and a large part of these people do not mentally have the capacity to move rationally in this particular market environment. So soon, there were various swindlers from the family environment or providers, sometimes even clients of the system that are still growing and who can use this situation with skill. Great traditional providers have a certain future as well. Small people must constantly fight for their place in the sun and overlap often with commercial loans and new capacities are created precisely at the expense of dividing the budget pie for traditional providers, which does not change significantly from year to year. Finally, we know the experience of successfully doing business with public funds in various sectors in the Czech Republic. Social services have seen a significant increase in employees and have become the most developing industry alongside banking, tourism, gambling and civil servants. Sectors with undervalued wages and salaries. Although the cost of social services increased unexpectedly after 2006 and logically there is an increase in new and new needs, demand is not always and probably never satisfied. We have been in disproportion, in difficulties with funding for many years, and yet we do not still have the Republic equally covered by these services. I am not convinced that, from my point of view, these fundamental problems are addressed by the proposal, but perhaps I want too much. And so in my speech, in its next part I will be satisfied with little and I will draw your attention at least briefly to some of the selected provisions of the Social Services Act concerning, in particular, planning, financing, and thus the sustainability of the social services system, which I personally consider problematic, both in the absence of a solution to the valid text, when there was no amendment, and in the uncertainty of the new proposals, i.e. in the prepared amendment. I'll be specific, then. Right in Section 3 of the Social Services Act - the definition of some terms - point (h) refers to a strategic document generally referred to as a medium-term plan for the development of social services, the term community plan is commonly used, according to which the provision of social services in a given territory is to be planned at both the level of municipalities and regions. This plan is to be approved for a period of three years according to the current version. In contrast with this, for example. I have already approved a medium-term plan for the development of social services in the Moravian-Silesian Region for the years 2015 to 2020, i.e. for five years. Similarly, there is processing and approval of community plans of municipalities, e.g. In Opava, too, for five years. So I ask myself why the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, respectively. the government as a petitioner did not accept the amendment to extend the period from three to five years. I understand the extension of the period at regional and municipal level as practical and meaningful for at least two reasons. Firstly, over the parliamentary period when political leadership is changing, it is an instrument for consolidating the stability and efficiency of system planning, including better measurable objectives and measures achieved. The second is also a less frequent administrative and financial burden for all those involved in the evaluation and updating of that document. My vision is in line with a text declaring an explanatory statement. I therefore lack the sense of the three-year period left in the presented material. In this context, I wonder how a uniform interpretation and a uniform processing procedure, i.e. equal access and the same conditions across the whole Republic, are ensured in this regard. I believe that it is not intended to have 14 different regional social policies and the law should unite the processes. As it turns out, another is practice, another is the letter of the law. This is related, as I have already indicated, to planning the needs of social services, to setting priorities and their long-term and sustainable financing. The regions are obliged, the municipalities still do not have a duty and still, as so far, only cooperate differently with their region. They may or may not process medium-term plans, see Section 94 para. (d). Other additional paragraphs of Section 94, i.e. paragraph (f) where the municipality, although "in particular" but only "can" participate in the financing of social services included in the regional social services network, and paragraph (g) where the municipality can only "can" but does not need to identify a social services network in the territory of the municipality, I consider it too free to formulate. Even in this still discussed area, a system amendment is not proposed. How, then, do we want to ensure effective and sustainable continuity in the system of the municipality - the region - the Republic? In the past, I have repeatedly tried to propose an amendment on the introduction of mandatory community planning for municipalities or for associations of municipalities in the case of smaller municipalities. But the farthest I went to the Senate to see Senator Kubera, and then everyone was afraid to incarnate this problem in the proposed bills, because he wanted it to be dealt with quickly and without a problem. [[15.50 hours]] Again, for example, I would like to mention practice in the Moravian-Silesian Region. It defines the elementary financial participation of municipalities in the role of the contracting authority of social services included in the regional base network, which is declared in regional implementing documents, including the existing methodology for updating the regional network. In other words, if the community does not contribute, neither will the region. What is the current practice in other regions, the truth, I don't know, but I ask what specific knowledge the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has available in this area and how it worked with them, how it dealt with all the regional comments. Paragraph 95 of this draft law relating to the obligations and activities of the regions states in paragraph (h) that the Region determines its network of services, taking into account the information communicated by the municipalities pursuant to Section 94 (b). f), and I quoted this paragraph a moment ago. We're just scratching our right hand behind our left ear and we're afraid of clear and clear formulas. The need for a clear definition of the terms and obligations of the regions and municipalities is then directly related and necessarily linked to the content of the amended provision in Part Six - Financing of social services, where, for reasons of me provided in the previous part, conditions for non-uniform practice in individual regions occur, which may also be a problem with respect to compliance with European legislation in the field of public support. There is no way I would underestimate the problem of public support. New types of services, including new professions included in the basic activity of services, are also incorporated in the draft amendment. Thus, in activities that are primarily financed by subsidies or public contribution, whether from the budget of municipalities or regions, or through regions from the chapter of the State Budget 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and are eligible costs. Personally, I have nothing against it and I can understand for selected types of services, e.g. According to § 52 Social services provided in health care facilities bedding care, or in accordance with § 52a Social services provided to persons in terminal condition and to persons close to, declaration of other professional staff referred to in § 116a para. 1 (g) pastoral workers and chaplains. However, I am interested in how these positions will be financed. Will the volume of Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs be increased at the expense of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture and funding will gradually pass over to churches and religious societies? Or there will be staffing of basic activities without the right to financial remuneration, respectively. About the volunteering of the clergyman? Or is it going to be local parishes or something? Here I ask for a clear position, simply an answer. What I was also interested in in in Volume 2 Social Advice § 37 para. 3 where it is written about focusing on the needs of individual types of social groups of persons in the framework of the provision of professional social advice and where the term "marriage and family meetings" is deleted, and in Part 4 of the Services of Social Prevention in the updated Section 65 of the Services for Family is deleted. The Commission shall be assisted by a committee within the meaning of Article 4 (3) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 provided in marriage and family counseling... Furthermore, the definition of basic activities continues. The question, therefore, is what is the standard. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. 1 in Section 65 Family Services. I would also ask for an explanation, because I do not understand or understand in this logic or sense. Finally, I will stop at the newly proposed section 56a, which regulates homes for children for a transitional period. I want to express my understanding of the position of the Federation of Children's Homes of the Czech Republic. The explanatory memorandum claims that this is not the introduction of a new type of social service, but merely a legislative technical regulation. So be it. But based on my experience, I also believe that it is about preparing for the transfer of children's homes to the Gesture of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs from the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. I won't argue here, but I'm really vigilant. The Federation points out that the transformation of institutions for the exercise of constitutional and protective education into mere social service providers would create considerable risks and could lead to restrictions on professional assistance for children in need. After their costly and successful transformations, these facilities provide versatile professional assistance to qualified personnel from education, education and socialization to emergency and advisory intervention. Therefore, efforts must be faced to ensure that money for this purely professional activity is irreversibly transferred to another sector, such as the non-profit sector. Just as we are today dealing with the lack of qualified nursery and kindergartens through child groups, so that we do not look for a once substitute solution for an unsatisfactory situation in the area of social-legal protection for children. That's all from my point of view so far, thank you to all those who have listened to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u7	I thank Mr Opálek. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Alena Nohavová. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be much shorter and more brief in my speech than my previous speakers. The Social Services Act, which has been in force since 2007, according to the authors of the amendment, no longer meets the needs, and it is therefore necessary to introduce up-to-date requirements into practice. The draft amendment undoubtedly contains a number of good proposals, which even experts - I mean, social services workers - welcome. On the fact that the work on the amendment was already started at the beginning of the parliamentary term and actually took place throughout the parliamentary term, it is presented to the Chamber of Deputies at the last moment. It'll take time to approve her. There will certainly be a number of amendments that can move the whole amendment to a completely different place. Comments on the amendment are from the regions, from the National Council of Disabilities and from social service providers. The amendment is obviously very late. According to the original timetable, it should have been submitted precisely in order to discuss it thoroughly, already in 2016. However, the first version contained a number of problematic passages that would have rather negative effects on people with disabilities. Since the MPSV it is irresponsible to present such an important law at the very end of the parliamentary term. [[16.00 hours]] For example, the amendment sets out the obligations of providers to define clear standards of quality for the provision of social services, so that it does not occur that the life of clients will be threatened or will live under unbearable hygiene conditions, which is fine. Come in. Hospice is also included in the amendment, which is to become an official social service, where the health care section will continue to be covered by public health insurance. It is included in the law to reflect the reality of today's social services into legislation. Examination (?) The Social Policy Committee imposed this issue in a major amendment. Come in. According to the proposal, the most seriously disabled or infirm citizens could receive a fourth-degree care allowance, which is a total dependence, 6,000 crowns higher, i.e. to CZK 19,200 a month. But only those people who would be so-called cared for in their home environment would be picking him up. The Department of Labour wants to support caring families and field services. But it wouldn't change the amount to people in institutions and homes for seniors. This part is also controversial for the National Council of Disabilities, where people who will be hospitalized in health establishments for less than a month will lose part of the allowance due to care for the health facility, and it is so dangerous that they will refuse to hospitalize you even if it is necessary for their health, which will make treatment worse. In no way should legal regulation motivate the so-called "naïve" patients, but it does so. Come in. Houses for children in need should now be part of social services. The explanatory memorandum states that this is not the introduction of a new type of social service, but merely a legislative technical regulation. In view of the growing tendencies to intervene in the current system of protection of vulnerable children, I consider this to be the intention of starting the transfer of children's homes to the gesture of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs shortly before the end of the parliamentary term. Transformation of institutions for the exercise of constitutional and protective education to mere social service providers would create considerable risks and could lead to restrictions on professional assistance to children who find themselves in need. The care provided to children in their homes and the environment in which they find refuge are at a top level and are provided with versatile professional assistance. This isn't just about education, it's about education and socialization. The list of amendments proposed could continue. This amendment from the MPSV workshop is a good idea, but as with a number of other laws, it remains and, given the deadline for presenting it, it will probably remain with the idea. Unfortunately, this law also confirms that privatisation of a large part of social services and their commercial provision was a mistake. Socially weak and ill should be taken care of. Charity and commercial private activities may be an appropriate complement, but must not be the basis of care. There is therefore a question as to whether, after late submission, rather than hiding the intention of the petitioners in this way, there is a law that does not have full coalition support, block and the power to pretend that we actually want it very much, but those members of the opposition do not want to approve it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, too, Madame. I will now request a speech duly signed by Mrs Chalánková, Mr Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The proposal contains a number of good changes, for example, as already stated, the differentiation of the contribution to care in the case of the provision of non-residential social care services, the merger of homes for seniors and homes with a special regime, the introduction of a clear personnel and material technical standard, if the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs can define it. Now they also have a duty in the law to determine the usual costs of individual social services from this year onwards with regard to the regional specifics of social services - this applies to § 105a - while they may not be able to do so, because the implementing legislation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not issue. But there's more to what I think is wrong. The most important things are: there should have been a significant reduction in the types of services. However, there is only a combination of homes for seniors and homes with a special regime, which is good, but on the contrary, there are new types of services, so not a reduction in the number of types of services, but an increase in them. New basic activities which are imposed on certain social services. Originally, basic activities were to be divided into compulsory and optional activities, eventually all are added to mandatory ones, where, in particular, pastoral and spiritual care is very problematic from this point of view. The service provider should employ either an agreement or another kind of employment relationship of the clergyman and pay him for the social service money. Moreover, it is not clear whether the clergy of every church to which the client may apply. New service: § 52a - social services provided to persons in terminal condition and to persons close to them, only in the form of field services. Although it is possible to agree with the need for explicit legislation, it is not possible to identify with the proposed change, since this does not address hospice care comprehensively and systematically. Example. For example, a hospice at St. Kopečka near Olomouc would lose at least a million crowns a year from payments from clients, users, following the construction of the payment. Moreover, neither is the obligation to re-registration lightening services, which hospices now often have registered to this new type of service. It is thus possible that hospices will continue to be registered as health care establishments and at the same time as a social service provider who is lightening and others will have a different registration. We believe that hospice care needs to be adjusted, but it is probably necessary by a separate law that will affect this area comprehensively in relation to health services. It is still not possible to agree with the change in the transfer of services from the Social Protection Act to social services. I will make an even more detailed statement on this. New information is added to the registration - an unfavourable social situation. One can agree that it is necessary to clarify the register of social services for those interested in services, but this is in many ways only a technical matter of the current information system, which is user-friendly. If there is no more comprehensive adjustment of how the services are to be registered, this new category of registry will become even more obscure. It is not possible to agree with the addition of a new competence of delegated municipal authorities in § 91d letter. (b) and (c). Delegated municipal authorities have no tools to verify capacity utilisation, they will only burden social service providers. This is the role of the region in the planning of social services. [[16.10 hours]] There is no way that the occupation of a social worker should be broken down by any refinement. So fundamentally it cannot be agreed that in § 92 letters. (d) the role of a social curator is added, i.e. there is a new category of social worker, a social worker - a social curator, but there is no indication of the differences in the performance of his work. It can be assumed that when something is defined for a social worker, it is true for a social worker, but not for a new type of social worker - a social curator. Social work is one profession in which methods and techniques are used according to the client's situation. The justification that the legislation of the Prison Service uses the concept of a social curator - but that is a remnant of the past - cannot be the reason that the social services law is thus unsystemically adapted. Moreover, this activity is a few people who have insisted in the past that they are the best social workers and therefore have to be distinguished. There's no way to fundamentally agree with that. There should be a solution for co-financing of social services by municipalities, but provision should be made for § 94 letter. (f) is completely useless and solves absolutely nothing. It is good to fix minimum costs for the allocation of social services in the state budget. However, it has been pointed out that this volume needs to be calculated from the money that goes to social services from European funds. If not included, there will be significant underfinancing of social services if there will be no calls from European funds. I will go back to how I indicated that it is not possible to agree with the transfer of facilities for children requiring immediate assistance as a social service. Social-legal protection, i.e. SPOD, cannot and must not become a subset of social services, but must become separate from them with the guarantee of the state. Children's socio-legal protection must sometimes be given to children against the will of parents, because children's rights are often with the rights of parents in conflict. Social-legal protection for children is not a social service. If this law were passed, there will be a complete breakdown of the system of social-law protection for children, which has not yet settled after the adoption of the amendment to the Act on Social-Legal Protection for Children, which has been in force since 1 January 2013. Work on children's social protection bodies is becoming increasingly difficult, as social workers are overwhelmed by complaints from parents who want to carry out parental responsibilities. These parents, among whom are often domestic abusers and bullies, often claim their rights very strongly. The state can't protect these children. Pressure on social workers causes fluctuations and very difficult recruitment of social workers to the institutions of social law protection of children. The Social Services Act in the present text will deepen this problem, which will become unbearable for the system of social-law protection for children. If the aim is to privatise the system of social-law protection for children, then this is its pre-emption. Children's facilities requiring immediate assistance as a child welfare facility are to be abolished and replaced by asylum facilities for children and residence facilities for careless children under the social service regime. In the explanatory memorandum, Article 5, which is precisely the amendment to the Law on the Social Protection of Children, states that these asylum facilities for children will be as a crisis type of constitutional facility and at the same time a constitutional facility. According to the Act on Social and Legal Protection of Children No. 359/1999 Coll., as amended, children cannot be placed in a constitutional facility for social reasons. And now that will be possible? In recent years, according to the annual reports on the social protection of children published on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Children, the number of abused, neglected and abused children continues to increase. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs justifies this by revealing these cases better because there are more workers on the institutions of social law and the situation of more children is being evaluated. The reality is different. There is a lack of social workers in most institutions of social-law protection through a table increase in places. Experts in the field of OSPOD leave because they have no room for family work. More and more they have to do nonsense paperwork and are constantly under fire critics of everyone, including legal representatives, that they are meddling with families or, on the contrary, that they do not act according to their expectations, which in divorce disputes each parent has a different idea of how they should act. Let the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs present what Mrs Jamrichová's claim from the Department of Family Rights and Children's Rights is based on, that cases of abused children with abused child syndrome are better exposed because of more social workers on the bodies of social law protection and greater awareness of citizens who report more such cases. This was said recently by Mrs Jamrichová in response to the press conference with Dr Vodičková, who presented statistics on children with abused child syndrome. Does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have an overview of the fluctuations in the bodies of social and legal protection of children until 2013 and from 2013? Does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have an overview of how many bodies of social law protection in the Czech Republic have been full of social workers since 2013 according to tables and how many bases? Does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have an overview of how much money from the state contribution to foster care agreements really goes to foster homes and what part of it spends operating and wage costs accompanying organisations? Does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have an overview of the ways in which accompanying organisations educate foster parents, how often they pay children professional psychological assistance, and how they provide relief services? Not in individual cases, but in the sum of all agreements. How does the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs want to address the social and legal protection of children in cases where parents neglect, abuse or abuse children, but do not perceive the social protection of children as a service and, on the contrary, they see as interference with their families, and the system gives them its concept of social and legal protection of children as a service already for the truth? Social workers at OSPOD have no chance of helping such a child. Only temporary foster care is prepared in the event of a complete failure of such a family. And how do we get parents of children with abused child syndrome to cooperate when we set child welfare as a service? A service that expects the child to be placed in temporary care or facilities for children requiring immediate assistance, i.e. the new facilities, which will again be a service. What kind of service? Here from the commentary procedure - and I am sorry that many of the comments that have been sent from the regions, from various other associations and organizations have not been settled. I would also like to draw attention to the comments made by the public defender of rights, who is a defender, that these services should be unified under one ministry. However, according to the public defender of the rights, this cannot be done in this way. The situation in the constitutional facilities must first be communicated with all the departments involved, reach agreement and the best possible system solution and cooperate on implementation. There are uncertainties arising from the link between the proposed amendments and other legislation. The material is not comprehensive, linked to follow-up, related legislation and raises other questions. In particular, the provisions of § 971 para. 2 of the Civil Code envisages entrusting a child to facilities for children requiring immediate assistance. This provision will therefore no longer be applicable. Where Article 91 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 is applied, the Commission shall notify the European Parliament and the Council of the Council of the measures taken to comply with this Regulation by means of implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. 8 on the consent of the court to the conclusion of a contract for the provision of social services, is this a decision of the court ordering the child to receive institutional education? Will the court grant its consent in proceedings pursuant to § 466 and the following Act No. 292/2013 Coll., on special proceedings of the courts, as amended? Is it possible to ask the asylum facility itself to provide services? Can the provider conclude a contract with him? The social service provider of a minor child may also refuse pursuant to § 91 (2) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) Three? And so on and so forth. We will find many opinions here. Unfortunately, these views and these comments have often not been settled at all. Here I would read for a very long time and these are very similar warnings when it is not really possible to recommend and it is not possible to approve the transfer of these devices for children requiring immediate assistance to the social services system. Furthermore, this concerns funding. First of all, I would like to support what my previous speaker, Mr Opálka, spoke about the issue of financing social services in the Czech Republic. I have already pointed out when transferring the subsidy from state budget to regional level, when I also tabled an amendment, when I wanted to extend by two years here this transfer so that we could buy time and start talking about a systemic change in the financing of social services, where we have a lot of resources, whether from users, a subsidy that is not indicative of the state budget, a dictatorial contribution to care. Then there are contributions from the founder, and the municipalities sometimes do and sometimes they don't. There are very many unknowns, and it is the financing that is very different both in individual regions and at the level of individual providers. I also believe that this transfer does not comply with the rules of proper public support, and I think that it would also deserve notification by the European Commission. [[16.20 hours]] As regards the financing of social law protection for children, this cannot be agreed with, in principle, because it should be noted that funding, in particular, for facilities for children requiring immediate assistance is inappropriately set now, but this situation does not really correct this case. On the contrary, there will be a great fragmentation of the regulation of social law protection for children, where part of social law protection for children would be regulated by Act No. 359/1999 Sb. and part of Law No. 108/2006 Sb. It is noted that the budgetary impact - these amounts have already been communicated here. I believe that it will be much bigger and cannot be fully trusted. However, the proposed method of financing will be very unclear from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance, it will be very difficult to ascertain how much funding is spent on the social-legal protection of children. It is necessary to ensure that the functioning of current facilities of social law protection, but only a comprehensive amendment to the law, and not a violent and non-conceptual mixing of two completely different issues into one law, is made more effective. The Ministry of Health has argued and requested that this amendment, which concerns the transfer of facilities for children requiring immediate assistance to social services, clearly states that it applies only to children older than three years of age, because children under three are in children's centres and also have health services. This has not been heard. The Czech Bishops' Conference also argues that this proposal is discriminatory against social service providers who are not included in the basic network of the region. This is a big issue that I have already discussed in the financing of social services. Various solutions can be proposed concerning both the registration of social service providers and applications for subsidies, where these systems could theoretically be separated, so that those who register and meet standards can also obtain other financial resources, such as families, etc. I'm sure there's more to it than that. There are further comments. This comment is explicitly desirable, since in the specific part of this explanatory memorandum it is stated that any placement of a child in a constitutional establishment can be regarded as an important element which the institution of social protection of children should be informed of. Such a claim denies the nature of the social-legal protection of children, as the institution of social-legal protection of children must be informed about a child at risk of being placed outside the family much earlier and working with the child's family. The proposed regulation narrows the social and legal protection of children to the mere tertiary prevention, i.e. the removal of a child. Further, there are other and other comments from the institutions of social-law protection of children. Maybe I'll go back to them if I apply. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u11	Thank you, too, Madame. I will now request a speech from Mr Kaňkovský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u12	Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Let me start with a few numbers. Today we have a date of 17. 5. 2017, we have an extensive amendment to the Social Services Act, where only amendments to Act No. 108/2006 Sb. is 169, followed by dozens of amendments to related laws. You can't not ask me, Madam Secretary, why. I do not ask why an amendment to the Social Services Act is tabled here. I don't doubt her need for a moment. I ask why this fundamental and very necessary amendment is submitted to the House's meeting only 4.5 months before the actual end of the parliamentary term, with a whole series of unfinished comments. These comments have already complicated the discussion of the government and will certainly complicate the discussion here in the House. I understand you've given yourself a very difficult task, virtually. it has been inserted on your shoulders because the valid wording of the Act even after the amendment of the Act of 2014 shows a number of shortcomings. I also know that it is not easy to find an acceptable compromise in the very broad issue that the Social Services Act covers and affects a number of interest groups. But I still have to ask again - why? Why the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs did not give itself a clear priority to the key laws such as this, but also the social housing law, and it did not also bring about your actions and your commitment to these issues, or why you may have chosen a more honest path in time, Madam Secretary. I am referring to the possibility of bringing in the most economical amendment that would solve the most pressing problems of social services, such as, from our point of view, a very necessary increase in the contribution to care for the most difficult degree of disability, i.e. level 4, or which would find solutions together with the Ministry of Health, so much discussed issues of palliative and hospice care. And if you have failed to resolve controversial points - and do not take this as a regret - such as interference with the issue of socio-legal protection of children and others, why you have not left these to a solution for the next parliamentary term. Or - I don't like to speculate, but this is how the current state can be interpreted - doesn't the administration of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs calculate, with the fact that the House will succeed in pushing through the law in a time crisis, along with the provisions that I clearly deserve to revise? We may not know the answer to why we are discussing a fundamental legal standard for the social system in the Czech Republic today. In these circumstances, the KDU-ČSL MP club has long discussed how to stand up to the proposed amendment. We are well aware that the public and employees in social services have long been waiting for some of the necessary changes, but on the other hand, it is our duty to approach this standard responsibly as a whole. The KDU-ČSL MP club will ultimately support this amendment for committee discussions at first reading. However, we expect a very complex debate and a necessary revision of some provisions in the committees. I could talk very extensively here about issues that have already been mentioned by previous speakers. I won't hold you up. In conclusion, Madam Secretary, let me make a suggestion. Consider an accelerated preparation of a comprehensive amendment to release the most problematic passages and try to adjust those that can be adapted. This will increase the chance that at least the most necessary changes will still be approved during this parliamentary term. In this respect, I also warn against proposals to shorten deadlines, as this would be a very risky step. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mrs Maxová, who is duly applied for, will be prepared by Mr Vilímec. [[This is MP Sklenák.]] In that case, I will ask you to be patient, Madame. With priority rights, Mr Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u14	Thank you. I'm just coming up with a procedural proposal, as we've announced. I would like to propose, on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and YES 2011, that we discuss and vote on all proposals today after 19.00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u15	It's a procedural proposal. I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'm going to call my colleagues and my colleagues from the lobby, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards again. We will vote on this proposal without debate. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 60, 95 Members are registered, for proposal 62, against 21. This proposal has been approved. We will therefore continue the debate now, and I will ask Mrs Maxová to speak to her. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Congratulations, Mr. Sklenák, on your behalf. I wouldn't be so happy. Ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u17	Before you continue your speech, I will ask honored colleagues and colleagues to keep their voice down so that they understand what you are saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u18	Thank you. I must say that I am a little admired by the optimism of my colleague Kaňkovský due to the creation of a complex amendment to this amendment, because if God willing, we may be dealing with social housing in a moment, and there are also some hoping that a complex amendment will be created, which, in fact, would put the amendment into some normal, judicial state. I wish I could, but I don't. I would like to comment on the proposed amendment to the Social Services Act and, above all, draw attention, at least in my first appearance, to the uncertainties and problematic passages that could, when it is approved by social service providers, make it fundamentally difficult to provide social services, and not only to them, but also to municipalities, towns and regions, and, last but not least, without logic, increase expenditure into social services. It must be said here that this material, this amendment, went to the government with contradictions. The Ministry of Finance made six major comments. Only one was accepted, then one was accepted partially and four essential comments were not accepted. Other unfinished comments remained with the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Justice, the Minister of Human Rights, equal opportunities and legislation, the Vice-President of the Government for Science, Research and Innovation, the Office of the Government, the capital city of Prague, the regions of Olomoucky, Plzeňský, Středočeský, Ústecký, Zlínský, Jihočeský and Karlovarský, the public defender of rights, the Union of Towns and Communities, the Confederation of Employers and Business Unions and the Union of Employment Unions. It is true that the National Council for disabled people also has reservations about this amendment. Specifically, about the points I've already announced. Article 35 (1) (a) of CRR Article 4 (1) (a) (p), (q), (r) and (s). It would be best if these letters merged under the letter one entitled "psychosocial support" because psychosocial support can include newly proposed basic activities that are redundant, and that is psychological support, psychosocial support for dying, pastoral and spiritual care, helping people close to dealing with the trauma associated with death and death of a loved one. The newly proposed four basic activities of the same content are redundant and confusing. For additions only, I state that spiritual and pastoral activity is free of charge. Once it is in basic activities in residential services, it will de facto become a bribe, as it is paid out of the care allowance. Furthermore, in the same section, paragraph 35 is replaced by the following: Article 4 (1) (a) (t) - the provision or mediation of food and material assistance must be ruled out, as this activity is currently being addressed within the framework of the activities of other bodies and other assistance and support systems. I do not agree with the extension of the basic activities of providing material and food aid, nor with the creation of a new type of social service - material and food aid. These activities of individual entities can be supported under individual subsidies, grant programmes of regions or individual municipalities, and not entirely complementary to the activities of social services, or directly for this reason propose a new type of social service. This necessary support should be left to the decision of the individual regions in their territory on the grounds that at present each region has the so-called a food bank that cooperates with the commercial sphere, and this is the purpose of food and material assistance so that the donor can freely decide where, to whom and how much of his own resources he will provide. There is no need to burden the state register unnecessarily in this regard. The explanatory memorandum does not indicate why this activity, which any entity may carry out, is to be included under the Social Services Act. Field practice is such that food aid is provided by entities that are not providers of social services. This practice is sufficient and should remain that way within competitiveness. In Section 44 concerning relief services, I fundamentally disagree with the proposed addition of the text "for a maximum period of 90 days in a calendar year'. The relief service is provided to citizens according to their needs and cannot be limited by the state to just 90 days. I propose that this supplement be deleted and left in the current version. There is no reason to limit the need for this kind of social service. K § 52a - social services provided to persons in terminal condition and to persons close to them. The proposed wording and justification of the entire provision of § 52 lacks logic. I do not understand why the petitioner states that the service is provided to persons in terminal condition. Similar services are provided in facilities that provide residential care services, which are homes for seniors, residential lightening services and more. Here, too, are people in terminal condition. In relation to the explanatory memorandum describing the reason for this change, the petitioner gives an incomprehensible and inaccurate justification. The current relief service is not only provided to persons in terminal condition, but it is a social service that is designed by its current definition to lighten caregivers. [[Objection from the O.R.: No member of the government is present.]] I'll wait...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u19	I'm sorry, Madam. I respect Mrs Černochová's comment that there is no minister, but the Minister is on his way now. I can interrupt the meeting if that's what you want. [[Yes.]] Yes, I'm sorry, I'll interrupt the meeting for two minutes until 4:40 a.m. [[One of the ministers is entering the hall.]] Then we can continue, thank you. The Minister of the Environment has arrived, the Minister is present, and the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies can continue. I apologise, Madame, please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u20	I'm relieved. [[He's laughing.]] In quotes. The explanatory memorandum describes this service only in relation to terminal persons. The petitioner states that he therefore proposes a new kind of service, which is inaccurate and chaotic. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs should rather address the reimbursement of health care providers who provide care to end-users, especially health care, because many providers of social services registered as home care cannot reach the conclusion of a contractual relationship to cover this health care from health insurance companies, even though they are proven to provide health care. This proposal rather seeks ways to saturate this needed health care from other sources, i.e. the state budget and then the regional budget. If the petitioner, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in Section 2, perceives the need to give priority to field and outpatient forms of assistance in particular, it should also initiate assistance to citizens in their natural environment, which concerns the need for health care. At present, this care is indicated by the treating physician, but is not covered by the health service provider for the unfinished contractual relationship with the health insurance undertaking. A similar situation with the unreplaced necessary extent of indicated health care occurs at the residential facilities of the care services. It has not yet been addressed and is indirectly financed from contributions from settlers and, in many cases, from payment of service users. Article 101 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union provides that: 3 on the financing of social services I would request to delete and replace this paragraph with another text, since the design of the calculation of the minimum amount of allocation of funds should not depend on the values over the past three years, but must reflect the expected inflation rate for the following year. The method of setting the minimum amount does not guarantee the guarantee of financing all eligible costs to social service providers or contracting entities, which means the regions, thereby ensuring the availability of services according to the approved medium-term social service plan and the network of services. The guaranteed minimum allocation of funds under this paragraph is set too low. These are the fundamental shortcomings that I find so far in today's amendment to the Social Services Act. Since I'm going to have to go away for a little while, I'm going to save some more comments for the next performance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u21	Thank you, too, Madame. Before I make a factual comment to Mr Kaňkovský, I will read the apologies. Today, from 16.15 to the end of the meeting for family reasons, Mr Radek Vondráček apologizes, and from 18.00 for working reasons, Mr Richard Brabec apologizes, today from 17.00 to the end of the meeting day, Mrs Matušovská apologizes, today from 17.00 to the end of the meeting day for working reasons, Mr Karel Pražák apologises, and from 16.00 to the end of the meeting day for working reasons, Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes. And now the de facto remark made by the Member. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u22	Mr Vice-President, I would like to address my colleague Radka Maxová through you. Maybe it wasn't quite understood. I am the optimist of life, I am, and I am glad to be the optimist of life, but towards the amendment to the Social Services Act, I may be more of a moderate realist. And if I was talking here about a proposal for a comprehensive amendment - a comprehensive amendment can take different forms. We can create, we can transform, and we can disturb. And that last one was what I had in mind. That means, let's cancel all the controversial provisions, let's leave the ones on which there's general agreement, and then there's a chance that we'll still do something for social services during this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u23	Thank you. And now, the duly signed-up Member, Mr Vilímec, will be prepared by Mrs Válková. Because Mr Soukup and Mrs Pekarová have cancelled their applications. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u24	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will be more brief than usual, because it has already been said a lot and I do not want to prolong the suffering of this House press. Madam Secretary - I do not know if he has any idea that this law, like the Social Housing Act, will be completely rewritten in the Committee on Social Policy. I don't share that idea. When I met this House's press on the weekend, I must point out that the House's press is very extensive, he, including the other parts, with a total of 550 pages indicating the proposed changes. In addition to assessing the impact of regulation, other analyses are part of this press. However, I have to say when I read this, that the volume of the material in this case is not equal to better clarity and explanatory value. The general part of the explanatory memorandum itself is very brief and has only six and a quarter pages. It should shed light on the main objectives of the novel. And in many cases, when I read the brief explanatory note, we are actually referred in this general section to a document assessing the impact of regulation, but it, as I found, is made up of several parts. In principle, if you want to get the overall information about the impact this press will have on the state budget, which I am interested in as an economist, or also in the budgets of municipalities and regions, it is difficult for you to get this information. Qualified estimate of increase in care allowance for the 4th degree of dependence is CZK 1,800 million, I think you can agree with that here. For other changes in the field of social services it is according to the second part, RIA, in 2018 - and now listen - 1 151 528 050 CZK. Whoever processed it must have been an economical genius when he was able to calculate the impact in 2018 to a single crown based on such unclear evidence. [[He's laughing.]] That really should be - I don't know - the finance minister, but it might turn out badly. So, yes, there are also some savings planned, which are calculated in the amount of CZK 580 million, and then, according to the analysis, the total costs are increasing and savings are decreasing. Not even one will know what is actually being incorporated in these costs, whether the cost of improving the material technical standard, which is therefore mentioned, should reach CZK 15 billion over the course of ten years, and from about 30 to 40 percent paid from European investment funds, or not, I don't know, I didn't know that. I don't even know if the costs on the regional side, regional authorities, are calculated in these cumulative impacts, because it is expected to increase personnel from regional authorities, but also from municipalities. You know, this press is really extensive, it increases the care allowance, it has already been discussed here, in the 4th degree of dependence from the existing 13 200 to 19 200 with certain defined exceptions, about which has also been discussed here. I don't think there's anything to argue with that. It's been discussed for a long time. The question is, are all these exceptions supposed to be there or not? And what I would also like - because I am rather trying to stop only on that part of economic or financial. It should also be said that, at the same time, a new mandatorial expenditure is being introduced in the area of social services financing. Since it is stipulated in the draft law that subsidies from the State budget are granted to finance social services provided under the law in the context of the so-called services of general economic interest. This is what happens to the government budget's mandatory expenditures. So these current transfers, the amount of which is always discussed in the approval of the state budget and which are distributed to the region in the amount of a percentage according to the annex to the law, that is to say, the 9 billion, will actually be the administrative expenditure of the state budget next time. I think that shouldn't miss the attention. I don't know if anyone mentioned it here. [[16.50 hours]] I'm not going to drag my performance to this press. Even in the case of this proposal, it was submitted too late, it contains a number of substantive changes, requiring higher personnel costs for the regions as well as municipalities. I know the Minister's time is running out if she really wants to discuss it and if she wants this standard to be approved. However, it is not some technical standard, and I am a little concerned that any pressure from the Ministry on its approval at any cost until the end of the term of office, and therefore the likely requirement to shorten the time limits, because otherwise it may not be possible, can affect the quality of this law. We know that, and this has also been shown in some other cases in the amendments to the Social Services Act. So thank you for your attention. I am also an optimist as Mr Kaňkovský, but here I really believe that there is no rewriting of this law at all. If it cancels 90 percent and there's nothing left but an increase in care allowance in the fourth category or any business related to the hospice, I don't know. But if the effort really is to rewrite the law completely, let's leave it for the next term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u25	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Another apology has arrived. Today, from 17 and 21 for work reasons, Mr Michal Kučera apologizes. Now with Mrs Hnyková's priority right. [[He doesn't want it until after all the shows.]] Until the end of the debate, okay. Now, then, Mrs Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u26	Thank you, Mr President. My point is: Madam Secretary, it is a great pity - by your means, therefore, Mr President - it is a great pity that this opportunity has not been taken advantage of. I have even put an amendment into the system in the hope that this law will also bear not content, but, in terms of the name of a formal sticker, that would allow a tax bonus as part of the tax advantage on a dependent child not to be subject to the enforcement of judgments by judicial executors. So I really, until the last moment, trusted that this House press could stand to see that, if a comprehensive amendment is processed, it could embark on another reading. After what I've been hearing here and what I've quickly verified, at least for the area that is closest to me, the connection to civil and procedural regulations, the Civil Procedure Code, I say no. I was surprised that the Justice Department, which has a judicial area in Georgia, had released it, but then I learned that the comments weren't settled and that it actually went through the government, I don't know how, I don't know why. In the end, it was approved as a government proposal. There's obviously been an accident. I now think that unfortunately this cannot be corrected by a comprehensive amendment and, in the event that it would be committed, even with good intentions, more harm than good, by the fact that a system that has a number of defects and some of them, of course, corrects the government proposal, could be created by new errors. So I suggest we consider going back to the process. And I'm very sorry. It is one of the bills that I would very much like to support, because there are some changes that we need very badly. But this - let me put it this way - legislative... I don't want to say the scumbag directly, but coming to this date, we should definitely not support as the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u27	Thank you, too. Mrs Hana Aulická, now duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the amendment is to optimize, clarify, simplify the social services and services system provided on the basis of the mandate to exercise social law protection of children, increase the stability of the social services system, deepen cooperation between public administration and strengthen inter-ministerial cooperation, which would lead to significant efficiency and also increase the quality and clarity of the financing and planning of the social services system. The main objective of the proposed legislation is that the social services provided meet the needs of clients better and are more accessible and more effective for clients, citizens and other actors in the social services system. The proposal would also allow the provision of tailor-made social services through a more precisely defined basis for providing social services to the client, i.e. adverse social situation, etc. This is how the explanatory memorandum speaks and, of course, it is only the beginning of this proposal. And how does he evaluate the intentions and objectives of the region? In essence, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the proposal tabled does not address the optimal provision of health and social services in such a different way as it has been so far. It merely relieves health insurance companies from the contractual obligation and transfers the financing of health care to the social services system. The problem of people who need health problems as a result of their unsatisfactory state of health and the adverse social situation of health and social services at the same time should certainly be addressed. I can agree with that. It is also possible to agree with the statement of the final report from the regulatory impact assessment, which contains that the social services of persons being treated here are not being fulfilled in the healthcare facility. However, it can no longer be agreed that their clients' health needs are not adequately met in social services facilities. Even now, health performances are provided in social services facilities, properly and in appropriate quality and professionally qualified personnel. Unfortunately, it's not really the state budget finances. We all know about the situation with staff in social services and the regions and municipalities are doing their best. Unfortunately, such assistance still does not come from the state. It is therefore unnecessary to complicate this situation by requiring the social service provider to register another social service. On the contrary, conditions should be established for such providers to be able to provide the necessary performances, nursing, therapeutic, rehabilitation and palliative care, without unnecessary administrative, temporal, etc. related to other registrations. For the Ústí Region - and it has already been said here by my colleague - there were 56 significant comments. Unfortunately, most of these comments were not accepted and settled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. That is why the Ústí Region in its last letter to the Minister sent at least 16 essential comments - although, of course, most of the 56 were still not settled. The rapporteur's report by Mrs Hnyková was really detailed and she listed the detailed changes that the amendment brings with it. So I will not repeat myself again, and I am only allowed to comment on some of the proposals. As has been said here, this novel has been preparing for over two years. Even on the Social Policy Committee, we have been assured several times that the necessary changes that we have pointed out will be incorporated in the upcoming amendment. I must say that, at the end of this parliamentary term, an amendment was tabled which brought rather contradictory views and many negative comments. Unfortunately, some beneficial proposals are disappearing between proposals that we can call unnecessary, problematic and would rather have a negative impact. I think that the region's position also suggests a great deal. [[17,00 hours]] I do not want to delay here by repeating and mentioning comments on this law, because many have already been said by my previous speakers, and I believe that the Minister will at least answer some of the questions during the hearing. However, I would like to make one detailed statement. Perhaps all the departments concerned in the commentary procedure had one of the essential comments - completely dismiss the proposed modification, the emergence of a new social service under the new paragraph 56a homes for children for a transitional period as well as new services for children. However, this social service was excluded by the Government's decision on 29 March, which was clearly acknowledged by the professional public. Furthermore, in the bill's proposal, the social service remained homes for children for a transitional period. And, as the Minister has already mentioned here, it is about removing this provided service from the Act on Social-Legal Protection for Children into the Act on Social Services. This change was criticised by all the professional public - regions, providers, associations and, above all, representatives of institutional care. In my opinion, however, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health should have a negative attitude here. Unfortunately, from the information we receive from the various meetings and conferences, the Ministry of Education is particularly cool about defending constitutional facilities and it can be said that they indirectly nod the proposals of Minister Marksová, who seeks to transfer all the institutional facilities for children under the Ministry of Education and under the Ministry of Health to her ministry. There are fundamental contradictions in the decision of the court in the submitted amendment. There is a lack of a child's free decision that he wants to place at his own request - yes, even such situations happen - as is possible under current legislation. And the main problem is also financing these facilities. There has been a Senate proposal in the Chamber of Deputies for over a year that would simply and optimally address the financial situation of facilities for children requiring immediate assistance. Unfortunately, if this amendment to the Social Services Act were adopted, we can speak openly here that there will be an even worse situation, such as personnel security and more. The reminder and concern about this change by providers, the OSPOD workers themselves are many, and I do not really think that this is the way that leads to a single goal, especially to help children who need it. I fear that this path leads to another goal, and that is not to be called a child's best interests. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u29	Thank you, too. Today from 17.45 to 19 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Martin Plíšek apologizes. [[Member Sklenák reporting in front of the microphone.]] First of all, with priority rights, the rapporteur was signed up. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u30	Thank you for the floor. Let me make a very brief statement on the law this time. I have already said all the necessary things in the intelligence report. I do not agree that part of the law on social protection of children should be transferred to the Social Services Act. I consider the transfer of equipment requiring immediate assistance to another law to be confusing and exclusion from the Social Protection Act as a disruption of continuity. Instead of strengthening the financing of this service, and I strongly support Senator Papoušek's proposal to increase funds for the operation of these facilities, this will not be resolved by the fact that the service is included in a different law, placing rights on funding and funding from subsidies. Furthermore, this service will have to be subject to a tendering procedure. This is what I consider to be the destruction of kangaroos and similar devices, and this trend is very dangerous for the entire system to disperse. [[Noise in the hall.]] Therefore, I propose that the law should return to the recast with the task of returning everything that has been removed from it to the legislation on the social and legal protection of children. A family service that is newly established in the law can continue to be advisory in the future law. And once again, the help of the primary family should be strengthened mostly and all forces should be strained in this direction. It is no secret that the Minister wants to get all the facilities under him, both medical and school, which provide education, education and health care, under one department. I emphasise once again, the ministries should cooperate with each other, thus ensuring the link between the care of children they have in their facilities. I don't like this trend. Media will be released - and don't be angry, colleagues, for this expression - the duck that the infant asylums will be abolished, that children's homes will be abolished, and in the field everyone will go crazy and bomb us. What about the kids? First, if we want to cancel something, we have to have an adequate replacement. Once we have a surplus of foster parents here, we can move on to these things and cancel. But we don't have them. Finally, I will repeat my request for the return of this House's press to recast on the condition that the whole area taken over from social law protection and replanting is removed. If this is not the case and we do not declare this return to recast, I ask you, colleagues, not to reduce the time for discussion in the Committee on Social Policy. There is a need to devote sufficient time to discussing such an extensive material and preparing amendments in order to ensure that the area that has been excluded from the social and legal protection of children is recovered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u31	Thank you, too. Today, from 17.15 to the end of the day, Mr David Kádner apologizes. And now, with priority rights, Mr Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u32	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, I listen very carefully to all these comments and reservations. I'm sure I don't take them lightly, and I can say that I agree with many of them. However, the proposals that are being made here are equal to the end of the legislative process. I guess we're all aware of that. And if we want to try to get the amendment to the Social Services Act into a form that could be approved in the Chamber of Deputies in this parliamentary term, it is absolutely necessary to shorten the time limit for committee discussions, otherwise we will simply put an end to the hearing process. I would like to propose that the deadline be reduced to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u33	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur's point of fact. Please. [[The rapporteur wasn't paying attention, and she's wondering if she should go to the microphone.]] You have a point of fact, Madame. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u34	Yes, yes, I do, Mr President. I didn't hear the name. I would return through you, Mr President, to my colleague Sklenák. This really is a very extensive material that needs to be properly discussed. And I just don't agree with shortening the time limit for the hearing. I don't want the son of a bitch to come out and comments unfinished. A number of social organisations have reservations about this amendment. And I just don't agree with it. The Social Services Act was opened twice during the parliamentary term. Let the basis of the amendment become the basis for the future Chamber of Deputies for the new amendment to the Social Services Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u35	Thank you. I will now ask Mrs Chalánková with a point of fact and then President Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u36	Thank you for the floor. As I listen to the various proposals here, I would certainly like to support the proposal for a return to work, yes. If the proposal to return to work is not approved, I would propose an extension of the deadline of 20 days, as well as a discussion in addition to the Committee on Social Affairs as the Committee on Guarantee, because we will definitely touch on the work or activities relating to children under three years of age, as well as the Committee on Constitutional Law due to the lack of compliance with the Civil Code, the Civil Code and so on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u37	Thank you. I would just ask the honourable House to be a little quiet, because I do not fully understand the proposals put forward. I'll also ask my colleagues on the right. At this point, I don't have anyone logged in properly. Please, Chairman Sklenák, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u38	I just wanted to respond to what the rapporteur said. Of course, I can imagine a situation where, within a short period of time, the Social Committee or other committees fail to reach agreement and the hearing may end in such a way that the law will not be passed. That's very possible. But the fact is that within that 30-day deadline, the committee can meet twice, there are two committee weeks, and we can at least try to find a compromise, a form. If we don't cut the deadline, it really means throwing this bill under the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u39	Thank you. I therefore wonder if anyone else is taking part in the debate. I don't see any more applications. In that case, I conclude the general debate and ask for final words. The Minister and the rapporteur will take the final floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u40	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members of Parliament, I do not think that I will discuss every technical question that has been raised here, and that is what we can say to the committee. However, in general. You're blaming us for putting it at the last minute. As you can see, change is complex and many actors who move in the field of social services have completely conflicting views on various matters. That's logical. It's in a number of areas, no matter what you touch. We just have to choose something from opposite opinions. That is why it has also taken so long, because we have really had a very honest discussion with many different people, with many different organisations. As far as comments are concerned, they are actually in a few areas. One area, which has been mentioned here several times and which is perhaps the most controversial, concerns the transfer of facilities for children requiring immediate assistance under the Social Protection Act, where I think it was not supposed to be placed, into the Social Services Act, where I think it belongs logically. And it has to do with funding. We are currently in a situation where equipment including kangaroos, but not only those, complain about lack of finance because they are funded for the day when the child is there, not the bed as such. If it takes half a month to get empty, it's only funded half a month when the baby's there. And that's because at the moment, anybody can actually start this device anywhere. It is not bound at all by any need in which region, in which village. It's just that when an organization meets the essential requirements, it sets up a device. And that it's probably not that bad financially, it shows that a number of them have been created without being 100 percent filled. And by getting them into the social services system, we want to say yes, we want the regions to tell each other how many of these crisis beds they need, where they need them, and then we are willing to finance them truly as emergency beds 100% regardless of whether or not the child is there at the time. So there is no liquidation of any kangaroos or anything like that, but it is bringing order into this area and at the same time improving the funding that they are calling for so much. Otherwise, it is one area that can be resolved by one amendment, and if the House here expresses by vote that it does not want this change, then the change will simply not be there. But that's no reason to go back to redoing the entire law. The second thing that's controversial to someone is pastoral service. This was given on the basis of the requirements of the operators of the equipment, because those people who die are simply seniors, they require this service, and they require it in such a quantity that we would not expect it in our country. So it was based on their demands, the demands of practice. Again, if this House decides that it does not want to introduce such a service, then make an amendment that will be put to the vote, and when you say that it will simply not be there. And the third area we talk about is hospice care. As you know, this is a very problematic matter on a health-social border. We have, of course, a legacy, we have an agreement with the Ministry of Health, there is a reference to the Health Services Act - I don't know what the exact name is. We wanted to do something for the hospices and care of the dying. I can't wait with my law to see how the health insurance company decides, because I wouldn't have to wait for that either. VZP is a unique institution and discussions at our senior houses with them are really constant. We have done what we could to improve the situation according to our best knowledge and conscience, because at the moment these services are sort of on the verge of legality. They're just not anchored, and we wanted to anchor them. And again, if you want or don't want them to be legally anchored, at least to the base, then reject it. Vote on the amendment and reject it. But these are all individual areas that are closed, so to speak, and really express yourself by voting, by expressing your amendments, but I see no reason to return this law to recast. Otherwise, as far as the comments from the Ústí Region are concerned, they have been dealt with in the vast majority by the councilman concerned, and these three that I'm talking about remain. Like I said, you just have to decide at some point when you have opinions from completely opposite ends. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u41	Thank you, too. Now, with the final word of the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u42	I'll be very brief this time. I don't want to discuss the funding of health care here, we've had it on the Social and Health Committee now. But I really see the comments on the exclusion of part of the Act on Social Protection for Children and the transfer to the Social Services Act as very controversial and problematic. The D.O.D. knew, but it was left behind. I mean, if the D.O.D. had been prepared for that, didn't, didn't put it there, we could really have had this bill approved. I would just like to say that there has been a return to the law for revision, a reduction in the deadline by 30 days and an extension of the deadline for discussion by 20 days. I would like to put it to a vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u43	I'm sorry, I was on the agenda. I have registered your proposal for a refund and we will vote on it after the final words, and I have it written down when you tabled the proposal in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u44	If it's not approved, there was a second motion to shorten the deadline by 30 days. If this proposal fails, the extension of the deadline shall be 20 days. We have everything, thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-006-078.u45	Thank you, too. We will therefore now vote on the proposals, as was said in the general debate. Once again, I'll call in my coworkers and colleagues from the lobby, registering the application for check-out. I'll check you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards. We will be the first to vote on the proposal to be returned to the applicant for completion. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a vote with order number 61. 116 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 56, against 45. This proposal was rejected. [[17.20 hours]] We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I do not see any proposal, in which case we will proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 62. 120 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 118, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, during the debate, proposals were made for this press to be directed to the Health Committee and the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am asking whether you have any further proposals or other proposals to discuss other committees. I do not see any other proposal, in which case I will vote. Even the Organising Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Initiating the vote and asking who is for the commandment of this press to the health committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 63. 122 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 87, against 25. This press has been directed to the Health Committee. Initiating the vote and asking who is for the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 64. 122 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 71, against 30. I note that this press has also been ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee. So we have given this press further for discussion to both the health and constitutional law committee. We will now discuss the time limit for discussion. First of all, the proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion was 30 days, i.e. 30 days. I will begin the vote and ask who is in favour of the deadline for the hearing being reduced by 30 days, to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 65. 121 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 33, against 72. This proposal has not been adopted. There was also a proposal to extend the deadline by 20 days. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of extending the 20-day hearing period, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 66. 121 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 69, against 33. I note that this proposal has been approved and that the time limit for the hearing has been extended by 20 days. I think we have voted on all the proposals that have been made. I thank you, both the rapporteur and the Minister, and end the first reading of this press. I'll read the apologies. From 18 o'clock to the end, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes for health reasons, from 17.30 to the end of the day for working reasons, for reasons of apologies to Mrs Gabriela Pecková, and today by the end of the day, Minister Robert Pelikán apologizes for work reasons. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's the point.
