ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-000-000.u1	Madam, honourable Members, Minister, I do not see another member of the government here yet, I am opening the third meeting on the 54th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all here. I'm asking you to sign up with ID cards and possibly tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card, respectively. She's already published. I agree that the following Members asked for apologies not to attend today's meeting: Jan Bartošek for an afternoon meeting for work reasons, Jiří Běhounek for working reasons for the whole day, Ondřej Benešík within 10 hours for personal reasons, Jan Birke for work reasons for the whole day, Vlasta Bohdalová until 11 hours for personal reasons, Vlastimil Gabrhel for working reasons for the whole day, Pavla Golasowská for family reasons for the whole day, until 13 hours Leoš Heger for work reasons, Pavel Holík for the whole day for family reasons, Václav Horáček from 12.15 to 16 hours for health reasons. Mr. Vojtěch Adam has a replacement card number 13. Gabriela Hubáčková for the whole day for health reasons, Vítězslav Jandák for the whole day for health Jiří, David Kasal until 12.20 hours for personal reasons, Martin Kolovratník for the whole of personal Zahradníček, Martin Komárek until 11 hours and from 14.30 hours for personal Vyzula, Jana Lorencová for the whole day for health reasons, Květa Matušovská until 12 hours for no reason, Radka Maxová until 11 hours for work Josef, Miroslava Němcová for the whole day for personal Helena, Igor Nykl for the whole day for health Vozka, for the whole day Lukáš Šenfeld for the whole day for personal Zemánek, Pavel Plzák also for the whole day for work reasons, Anna Putnová for the whole day for personal reasons, as well as Adam Rykala for the whole day for personal reasons, Jiří Štětina for the whole day for the Josef of health reasons for the whole day. I ask you to listen carefully to the apologies of the members of the government, given that today will be devoted to the interpelation and some of you will surely be disappointed. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka by 14:30 for work reasons, i.e. he will be at the afternoon interpelation, but he will not be at the written interpelation. Andrej Babiš for the whole day for work reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek for the whole day for health reasons, Richard Brabec until 11 hours for work reasons, for the whole day Milan Chovanec for work reasons, Miloslav Ludvík within 16 hours for work reasons, or for oral interpelation already will be. Michaela Marksová at the morning meeting and from 16.30 for work reasons, so she won't be at the interpelee. Jan Mládek is excused all day due to a foreign trip, until 11 o'clock Dan Ťok without giving reason, Kateřina Valachová until 14.30 o'clock for work reasons, which means that he will be at the oral interpelation already. I know I didn't make some people very happy this time, because I'm sure they wanted to give their interpelations. Since it is Thursday, we will begin with paragraph 290, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. I would like to draw attention to the well-known fact that it is possible to apply for oral interpelations within 11 o'clock and we will draw them at 11 o'clock. And then we can begin. Opening point
