ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-015-014.u1	14. Proposal for the establishment of the number of Members in Parliament's permanent delegations to inter-consular organisations Parliament of the Czech Republic is represented by its permanent delegations in the following inter-European organisations: firstly, in the Inter-European Union; Secondly, in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly; thirdly, in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe; Fourthly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe; Fifthly, in the Central European Initiative. The number of members of these permanent delegations shall be determined by the rules of procedure or by the internal rules of each interinstitutional organisation. Permanent delegations to inter-European organisations shall be composed of members of the two chambers of Parliament. The Chamber of Deputies must determine the number of Members in each permanent delegation. [[19.10 hours]] During the last parliamentary term, the Chamber of Deputies was represented in individual delegations as follows: In Parliament's permanent delegation to the Interinstitutional Union, in Parliament's permanent delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of 10 Members, of which 5 with member status and 5 with alternate status, in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe of 5 Members, of which 4 with member status and one with alternate status, in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 10 Members, of which 5 with member status and 5 with alternate status, in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Central European Initiative of 5 Members, of which 3 with member status and 2 with alternate status. I propose to adopt this resolution: Chamber of Deputies I. Notes that the Parliament of the Czech Republic is represented by its permanent delegations in the Interinstitutional Union, the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Central European Initiative; II. establishes the number of Members of Parliament's delegations as follows: in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Interinstitutional Union, in Parliament's permanent delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of 10 Members, of which 5 with member status, 5 with alternate status, in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe, of which 5 with member status and one with alternate status, in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 10 Members, of which 5 with member status and 5 with alternate status, in Parliament's permanent delegation to the Central European Initiative of 5 Members, of which 3 with member status and 2 with alternate status. So I am opening the debate. He signed up for the word... I have a point of fact here from Chairman Stanjura, if that's true? That's probably wrong. So I'm opening up a debate, I don't have a written application for the floor, I'm asking if anyone's checking in from the O.R. Doesn't look like anyone's checking in. So I ask if everyone agrees with the motion for a resolution, as it was loaded, and I will begin voting number on this issue... It is said that I did not end the debate, that is, even though no one has entered into the debate, no one has spoken, I am ending the debate and we are going to proceed to the vote. There are no amendments, so we will begin the vote on the proposal, as it has been tabled. Initiating vote number 49 on this issue. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? There are 172 Members present, for 146, against 3, so the resolution was adopted. Point 14 is exhausted and I am ending it. Opening point number 15, that is.
