ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u1	43. Government bill amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house print 1029/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u2	Hello, Mr Vice-President, Members. The essence of this proposal is the introduction of a new sickness insurance benefit, the so-called long-term infirmary. In particular, it is intended to help remove obstacles that restrict or even prevent family members from being cared for in their home environment. We are referring to family members who are experiencing a significant deterioration in their health, so that for a certain period of time they need the care of others, and if they do not have it at home, they must be placed in a facility. Typically it is a hospital of long-term patients. At the same time, we want to provide adequate compensation for the loss of income from their gainful activities and to protect their jobs, because today's practice seems to make mostly those who treat women over 50 years of age, and then, as a result of this care, they lose their jobs. This means that the sickness insurance law newly provides that the insured person is entitled to the benefit, who is unable to carry out an activity because of the care of a close person in need of long-term care in the home environment. It is also important that those family members who are insured with sickness can take turns with the sick person. In order to avoid any abuse attempts, the person treated must be a person who has suffered a serious health disorder who has requested hospitalization for at least seven calendar days and who is presumed to require full-day long-term care for at least another 30 calendar days. Otherwise, the period of the benefit shall be no more than 90 calendar days, i.e. three months from the date of release of the person concerned from hospitalization. The amount of the allowance for the caregiver will be 60 per cent of the daily assessment base, which is actually the same as the amount of the infirmary. There is also the amendment in the Labour Code, which states that the employee is protected from dismissal during the period of care and has the right to return to the same post after the end of care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u3	Thank you, too, Madam Secretary. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Alena Nohavová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary has already said what's going on here. I will be more brief in my intelligence report. The reason for the proposal is to address the long-term need for care of persons in need of care and, at the same time, the material provision of care to the care provider with the benefit of sickness insurance, the so-called long-term infirmary, regardless of the provision of the care allowance to the dependant person dependent on the assistance of another person, as well as the extension of the circle of persons who can provide the service with support. According to the current legal situation, the area of gainfully employed persons entitled to care for or care for a person who requires another person due to an adverse health condition is limited only to an employee who is unable to carry out work during the treatment of a member of the family for a maximum period of nine or sixteen days. Only a person living with a caregiver in the home is considered to be treated when the family is expected to provide the necessary care at this time. Due to the state of society, such care is mostly institutional care, which is not only more expensive overall, but less socially and humanly beneficial for the needy families than ensuring this care in the domestic environment of a family member or a wider family circuit. I see the family's financial contribution as a positive. This will be on the part of the attending person, i.e. income, the infirmary, which will replace her with a lavish income from the earning activity, establishing participation in sickness insurance, and it is also the bonding of family ties not only between the treating person and the treated person, but also among other members of the wider family. Furthermore, the support period for a long-term infirmary will not adversely affect the entitlement to the pension insurance of the subject because it will be considered as an excluded period or as a substitute period of insurance. Another is assumed to be a possible wider use, thereby reducing the pressure on state-given constitutional care in LDN, etc., when such relaxed capacity can be used for more difficult cases. In addition, it is expected to reduce the cost of subsequent bed care, which could amount to 1 billion. crowns a year. As a negative - there are, of course, slightly higher administrative demands on employers. The above may also lead to an unequal approach, where some firms will accept this and allow their employees to go to the long-term care of their family member. Of course, the long-term infirmary will be negatively reflected in the state budget balance of 1.8 billion. CZK, so there will be an increase in expenditure on a separate levy, a loss in income from social security contributions, a loss in income from personal income tax, an increase in wage costs in connection with the need for processing and control of benefits by approx. 32 million and a reduction in health insurance premiums by approx. 240 million. But once again, there will be a savings of almost one billion, when the cost of subsequent bed care will be reduced.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u5	Thank you, Madame. I open a general debate in which I register two applications. I will be the first to request a speech from Mrs Hnyková and Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak for the Dawn - National Coalition on the Government Bill amending Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, and other related laws, House press 1029. As we learn from the explanatory memorandum, the proposed legislation supports a pro-family policy. The government is introducing a new dose, a long-term infirmary, into the sickness insurance system. The purpose of the newly introduced benefit is, in particular, to remove obstacles currently restricting or preventing family care for members in the home environment who suffer from such a deterioration in the health condition that requires, for a certain period of time, the presence of an additional person providing for their care and care, in particular to provide adequate compensation for the loss of income from the gainful activity that had to be interrupted due to the need for close care, and to allow workers to be entitled to leave work with protection from the duration of such care. I must begin by sighing why this amendment comes to the end of the mandate of this Chamber of Deputies, because it has been discussed for a long time, and I think it is not as controversial as other amendments to the laws of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the new law on social housing, that it could have been submitted much earlier to the Chamber of Deputies and approved. It would help families. Nevertheless, I would like to say that with this amendment, and I draw attention to it, we agree, but we have some reservations about this amendment, and these relate in particular to § 41a para. 2. For the purpose of a long-term infirmary, a person is a natural person for whom (a) there has been a serious health disorder, who has requested hospitalization, in which treatment has been provided for at least seven calendar days consecutive, unless it is acute bed care provided to a standard treated person for the purpose of performing medical procedures that cannot be performed outpatiently. Long-term infirmary will be due to serious illness, acute illness, such as stroke or polytraumat injury, severe deterioration in health status, decompensation, chronic internal disease or neurological disability, or in the context of severe treatment such as leukaemia, or post-operative surgery such as cardiac surgery, organ transplantation, for which a natural person requires the provision of a large amount of long-term care after the end of hospitalization for several weeks, or assistance in the care of his/her own person in the home environment. Dear colleagues, I may lack the care of a senior at a terminal stage that this family wants to take care of. We do not agree that long-term care should be bound only to stay in a medical facility. It will lead to fraud in our opinion, and old people will be forced to be hospitalized to make family members, if they want to take care of such a person at the end of his life, so that they actually meet this condition. And we refuse. I think the doctor can evaluate the condition of the senior, and that it can also apply to people who have long-term family cared for in their home environment, take turns with him, and eventually, when a person has to leave this life, he has to be subjected to the fact that he has to be hospitalized. We don't agree with that. We consider it pointless that hospitalization should be this condition. [[Noise in the hall.]] Furthermore, we consider it unnecessary to make a condition for entitlement to a long-term infirmary pursuant to § 41a para. 1 was that the person concerned would give the insured person written consent to the provision of care on the prescribed form and refers to this Section 563 of the new Civil Code that the attending must obtain two witnesses who sign under the given sign. Totally redundant thing. If someone is released from a hospital facility, is he seriously ill and happy to be cared for by his family member, how many such cases will we deal with that person's refusal to care for his loved one? However, we will deal with the two Witnesses who will have to come and see the condition of the sick, and they will have to testify. Further to the support period 90 days. It's not enough, and it's limiting. If there was a chance to increase the number of days, it might be a lot better. And in three months, you don't put a man in a residence facility. Maybe not even a hospice. Maybe not even to the hospital for a long-term illness or to some other center to heal. And so the family will not only be losing their earnings until the care allowance is settled, but in today's review service, I see it at a very stressful time for the family, what will happen to the person after just three months. I think the institute of the fact that the support period could then extend for a longer period in those exceptional cases could also be the content of this amendment of the law. And the last thing that is very controversial is the employer's consent to provide long-term care in the section of the Labour Code, which refers to Section 191 of the Labour Code. I ask myself a question if the employer doesn't let it happen after that. This is totally unacceptable for an employer to decide on long-term care. You know how it is. From face to face, the employer says, "Choose." Yes, there's a protection that if the employer allows it and that person takes long-term care, he'll be able to go back to his job. But what happens if the employer says to the person: choose. More stress for the family and caring. What happens then, I don't know. The bill, I repeat again, we support and we will vote on his release for second reading. But we also consider this to be one of the positive benefits for families and long-term care for our loved ones, but we have reservations that I have allowed you to hear, and I hope that we will be able to remove them with amendments in favour of those who take care of their loved ones so that they can exercise this care in peace and precisely for these people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u7	Thank you, too. I note Mrs Nohavová's factual remark. Or is that a proper application? [[Yes.]] Then you'll have to wait. Then I'll give you my word. Now, then, Mr Vilímec. [[Mr Benda calls from her position: as rapporteur, she has priority rights.]] With priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u8	Thank you for the floor. I didn't want to abuse my intelligence report, because I have some reservations about this novel as well. Mrs Hnyková has already spoken of them. Yes, the amendment corresponds to the need to resolve the unsatisfactory situation in this area, but probably for political reasons and because of the transit in the coalition, it contains provisions that basically make it unnecessary, by saying that the employer can release the employee. I have to say that today the employer can voluntarily provide unpaid but also paid leave, essentially to any extent. This can also be regulated in a collective agreement. He can arrange work with the employee from home, to shorten working hours. So if he wants to, he's gonna make a deal right now. And as I said in the news report, there will be a slight higher administrative entitlement to employers, that is certain. They'll be releasing the employees, and they'll have to make a replacement for the missing employee. But this will also lead to the employer's efforts to discourage those employees from doing so. And unfortunately, he has the opportunity not to, because the law says he can, but it doesn't bind him, and he doesn't have any obligation. So this can also lead to an unequal approach, where some employers will make this possible and others will not, and this can also lead to inequality between workers in individual workplaces. Some people just get the job done and others don't. In order for the law to have meaning, I will therefore propose an adjustment, by releasing the words 'can give written consent to absence', in Section 191a of the Labour Code, so that the law is binding on employers. Otherwise, in my opinion, it would be a law for the law, meaningless and useless. If there is only the possibility to grant consent, it does not solve the long-term treatment completely, only the range of providers will be extended, treatment will be extended to 90 days with an infirmary of 60 per cent of the assessment base. But if the employer doesn't allow it, it's all falling and we're where we are today. So the idea is good, but if this stays there, it just stays with the idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u9	Thank you. With Mrs Pecková's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u10	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Just very briefly, because I've talked about this many times in different forums. Of course, TOP 09 is very supportive of the family itself. Ninety percent of us would like to die at home - and ninety percent of us would die in hospitals. However, rather than this new dose, we would imagine that the care allowance should be used and otherwise set. These two doses would actually cross. On the other hand, as far as employers are concerned, we think that you might have a lot of problems with this, especially when it comes to small companies where the employees are few, so it could be unsolvable for the company. The reference to the Labour Code and Section 191, where it is that the employer can grant, the interpretation is not entirely clear, so on the contrary, we would imagine that explicitly this employer's consent will be required to claim the claim. As far as seven-day hospitalization is concerned, as a doctor, I must say, this is total nonsense. Not only is hospitalization a burden on the patient, if it is unnecessary, if it is a long time ago diagnosed and chronic patient, but in the end it is also completely uneconomical, it will become expensive. In addition, we risk that the patient, especially if it is a chronicle in a severe condition, an old person very susceptible to infections, is at risk of nosocomial infections, where the whole situation only worsens, hospitalization is prolonged. So, in the sense of the objections that I have raised, we are going to put forward amendments and, in essence, depending on the form in which the proposal will eventually appear in the House, we are willing to support it. [[Attention on time.]] But it depends on the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u11	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Vilímec is now duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u12	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, with the elections coming up, there is a well-known legislative phenomenon. Various ideas and suggestions are growing. In particular, the left is trying, here I must say, especially social democracy is trying to win its constituents at the last minute, either increasing or proposing raising existing social benefits, or introducing new benefits at the same time. It is a bit repeated in 2006, when this legislative madness eventually led to the burden of mandatorial spending of 70 billion per year. CZK in the social sphere. I'm worried it won't come to the same picture as it did in 2006. That's when I remember when I was elected in 2006 and I sat on the budget committee, so I asked the chairman of the budget committee, the former finance minister, today the Prime Minister, whether he agreed to the changes that led to an increase in mandatorial spending of 70 billion. He said he didn't agree with them, and he didn't vote for them either. So I don't know how he's going to vote at the moment. I fear that, after the election, when the new government comes, a new coalition will arise, so it will worry, if all these ideas are approved, about what to do with the legislative legacy from the last months of the parliamentary term. After all, we have several last-minute laws in the Chamber of Deputies. It's not just social housing. There's a few third readings tomorrow. Amendment to the Act on State Social Support, where there are again many amendments increasing existing social benefits. In second reading, there's a code of work, and so on. All these proposals are then supplemented on the basis of the parliamentary initiatives on quite crucial amendments, and I dare say, although I am not part of the coalition, that they often go beyond what the government coalition has been able to agree on so far. That's kind of a general introduction. To this law. This introduces a new social benefit, the so-called long-term infirmary, which is limited to 90 days. The rapporteur spoke of the current state of affairs, so I will not repeat it. The infirmary is currently, such a short term, for the first nine calendar days. When it comes to single employees - it always concerns employees only, so far - it belongs for the first 16 calendar days of treatment. Even now, there is a right to leave if needed, but it is without any financial compensation. At present, only employees participating in sickness insurance are entitled to the infirmary. So now it is proposed to anchor so-called. a long-term infirmary up to 90 days, so compared to a short-term infirmary, when I read the proposal, it would not be entitled not only to the employee but also to the self-employed, if they are also involved in sickness insurance. [[Did you?]] Mrs Pecková was here talking about many reservations about this bill. So of course he was not accepted, as I read the opinions of employers' representatives, he was not accepted in any agreement probably, because employers are afraid, no matter how we interpret that paragraph of the Labour Code, that after 90 days on the one hand, or within 90 days they will have to look for adequate work replacements. In the case of qualified employment, this can be a really big problem. I am not surprised, therefore, that employers are concerned about new obligations and also about costs. [[16.20 hours]] For example, the Confederation of Industry and Transport fears that the newly designed dose may be very abused. This has also been mentioned here. Indeed, employers have drawn attention to this possibility. Last but not least, the introduction of a long-term infirmary will also require the need for new administrative posts. In particular, there will be an increase of at least 50 staff posts to process the agenda of the new levy. The number of medical posts in the assessment service will have to increase, which is certainly not easy at the moment. I'll ask myself a question. Okay, so he's gonna pay 90 days. And what happens after 90 days? That's not what I'm talking to President Sklenák, but I'm asking a rhetorical question. [[Standing in front of the newsstand's desk]] Rather, we support, now I speak for the Citizen Democratic Party, so that the carers can take care of themselves in peace and have no fear of how they will ensure in three months, 90 days, or 60, or 120 days, depending on what variations in the social committee will be, perhaps, a disabled family member. We are interested in ensuring that the employer does not have a problem with long-term absence, and we believe that it is better than this concept to really set up another system where the state will pay caregivers a long-term wage, such as in the case of foster parents. I think that's a much better concept than the long-term infirmary, because it's still some kind of inter-step, and after 90 days, it still has no other solution. I have also read the RIA report in very detail as well as the explanatory memorandum, and if I understood it well, I think so, also in some states where the social system really is very rampant and it is such an outlay of social systems, there is no compensation at all, I think financial compensation, there is no such thing. And they are not the outermost states of the European Union. It's for example. Germany, France, Great Britain or Spain. I am suggesting that not everywhere in the European Union states, short-term infirmary or even long-term infirmary is being paid. It's quite interesting to read the report on the effects of regulation. For us, of course, the illness of a family member is a major intervention in its functioning, there is no doubt about it. And the priority of the state should certainly be to make it possible to care for a sick person in his home environment, if possible. But the proposal that we are about to make now simply raises really many questions, some of which have been suggested here, some of which I have also remembered in my report. There is no e.g. power connected or at all linked with support for field services, which also limps in the Czech Republic for a long time, and I also lack a clear definition of the link between social and health systems. I confess that I was originally prepared, because reservations are very serious, to make a motion for a return to work. But since I have discovered that colleagues from other political parties, including opposition parties, want to give this proposal a chance, I will not do so. We will see how the meeting takes place in the Committee on Social Policy. But this concept, given the reservations that are obvious and based on a number of arguments, I do not think that it will do much good. Because, on the one hand, those proposals will certainly be contradictory in the Committee on Social Policy, I am quite sure, and the outcome may not be quite good. Let's see how the committee talks go. That is why I also join in the end so that the proposal gets a chance, and then we will see what passes and whether this proposal will have at least a minimum support in terms of ODS. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm registering two more applications for the general debate. First, Mr Kaňkovský and Mr Hovorka will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u14	Dear Vice-President, Prime Minister, Dear Members of the Government, Dear Colleagues, Colleagues, I shall briefly mention the amendment to Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, the main objective of which is the introduction of a long-term infirmary institute. The basic concept of this proposal is agreed and supported by the KDU-ČSL. In the long term, we advocate the possibility of caring for the next of kin in the home, and we believe that this is part of the signs of an advanced society. We can certainly and will discuss some of the parameters of this bill, but we will certainly get to that in committee meetings. I consider it important mainly to discuss the employer's consent, but also some other provisions. As illogical as well as discriminatory, I see the provisions of Section 41 (2) mentioned here by Mrs Hnyková and colleague Gabriela Pecková, by your means, Mr President, who says that the person being treated for the purposes of a long-term infirmary is a natural person who has suffered a serious health disorder who has requested hospitalization in which treatment has been provided for at least seven calendar days consecutive. My colleague Gábina Pecková has already spoken about the health risks and some other matters related to such forced hospitalizations. I would add that in practice, there are very often cases where, in particular, elderly people with chronic proven diseases are in the long term in home care and gradually, or sometimes suddenly, their condition gets worse so much that there is a need for a family member to start caring for them 24 hours. In a number of cases - and I stress this - it is not necessary for seven-day hospitalization to be required by law in order to be granted to the family of a long-term infirmary. In this regard, it is obvious that a registered physician can very well assess whether the health condition has deteriorated, that care is already needed for a loved one. A practical physician has all the tools to do it. He knows the patient's entire history and the development of his condition. Demanding hospitalization at all costs will lead to a number of negative phenomena. There will be families who will be demanding hospitalization of patients, even if there is no clear medical reason for them. Who knows the current situation in internal departments across the Czech Republic, but also the treatment of long-term patients, will then tell me that we are already struggling with the overcrowding of these departments and also with the excess of so-called. Social hospitalization. And we're also struggling with a lack of medical personnel, especially in internal departments. By requiring seven days of hospitalization, we will make this situation even worse. We will make families worse, we will make health care facilities worse, and those who should profit from the newly established long-term infirmary, i.e. seriously ill, we'll set up undignified situations. In this regard, I urge that this problematic provision be amended and I am ready to prepare an amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who is duly registered, will now speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u16	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, I would like to say that I support this bill and may agree with my fellow Member, Vilímc, that there are more proposals here which mean the cost of the state budget. But I would like to say that this standard is something else. It is a standard that allows civilized care for their family members in the event of such a situation. [[16.30 hours]] I know a case where the family's father and siblings have long been ill about how to take care of Daddy. At the end of the day, the daughter decided for a shorter time, then believed that this was not possible, and had to stay at home. The attending doctor put her out of work, so she could take care of her daddy, who was actually confused. He wasn't able to take care of himself at all. Of course, you can argue that this is the benefit of the care allowance. But if you take care of a care allowance, maybe, I can tell you that the dose has been handled for six months. There was also an interruption of proceedings because of repeated hospitalization and so on. It happened that this family's father died before the care allowance was completed. That means six months after he started handling himself. I think that this instrument is very reasonable and it will not have to happen that, in order to take care of it, it will seek the way of dealing with sickness, it will not have to look for a shorter period of time and can take full care of its family member. I see it as a very humane instrument. The fact that it can cause problems for smaller employers is true. On the other hand, however, if a family member does not have the opportunity to take care of himself, there is only one thing left for this person who is close to him to be taken to a hospital in the long term or to a social care institution. I don't think we really want that. I see this as necessary and join with my previous speakers that the requirement for previous seven-day hospitalization, such as hospital follow-up, does not seem happy to me. It's a burden for long-term hospitals or for post-care hospitals, because they're mostly overcrowded today, and if practical doctors have competence, then I think it's useless just to check the condition to let a person go into hospital another seven days before deciding on a long-term infirmary. I support this law and, of course, I am prepared to support a proposal that would remove the previous hospitalization for seven days from this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-002-043.u17	Thank you, too. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies. Today, from 16 a.m. to 18 p.m., Mrs Anna Putnová apologizes for personal reasons, and today from 16.30 a.m. to the end of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Richard Brabec apologizes for the environmental minister, and today from 15.45 a.m. to 16.30 a.m. for work reasons, Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel apologises. I am asking if anyone else is taking part in the general debate. I see no one, in which case I end the general debate and ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants the final word. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 294. 172 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 121, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I am asking if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees for discussion. I don't see a suggestion. If that's the case, then thank you and I'm done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
