ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u1	168. Members of František Vácha, Jiří Zlatuška, Karel Rais, Vlasta Bohdalová, Anna Putnová, Miroslav Grebeníček, Petr Kořenko, Simeon Karamazov, Radim Holeček, Adolf Beznoska, František Laudát and Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws (the Act on the Promotion of Research, Experimental Development and Innovation), as amended /German press 960/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 I therefore point out once again that it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law at first reading. We have received the Government's position as House Press 960/1, and I will now ask that one of the appellants present the proposal. Mr. Vácha. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am before you and I would like to ask you to approve the amendment to Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research and development, according to Section 90, that is already at first reading. In April 2016, at the 44th meeting we approved a government proposal, a government amendment to Act 130, in which some uncertainties appeared, one of us calls them errors. We tried to stop those mistakes. I was the rapporteur for this press, and we tried to prevent the mistakes in that law by coming up with several amendments. Unfortunately, the proposals did not pass, so after the law was passed, I entered into negotiations with both providers, which was the Grant Agency of the Czech Republic, TA CR, Ministry of Education, as well as with beneficiaries such as universities etc. I have tried a consensus, a compromise solution. I have tried to meet everyone involved, which means both the providers, the beneficiaries and the representative of the Prime Minister, Mr Bělobrádek, and we have newly defined the eligible costs. I'm gonna try to explain to you what the problem was. According to the law, the promotion of science can be spent only to the extent provided for by Law 130, and that is as purposeful, that is to say for projects or as institutional, that is to say for the operation of institutions. Furthermore, the law states that this aid can only be granted at eligible costs and that the eligible costs are defined in that law. And there was an error or some omission because the material costs that we have now defined in the law are lacking in the eligible costs. To zoom in, today the chemist who gives the grant gets the money, can't buy chemicals because the law doesn't allow it, doesn't define material costs, which means the chemist can't buy chemicals in the grant. At the same time, material costs are poorly defined in the law, i.e. investment purchases, where if the investment has a longer depreciation period than the project's duration, the provider will only give you money for depreciation, but not for the investment. So it is not possible to draw material costs, it is not possible to draw on most of the investments and there is also a threat to institutional support. So we have prepared a draft amendment to the law where we solve these two fundamental problems. For the reason that this is such a simple amendment, but such a necessary amendment, I would like to ask you for approval under Section 90 at first reading. For example, yesterday, the Grant Agency announced a call for standard grants, and the documentation states that applicants can apply for material costs. This is contrary to the current wording of Law 130. We need to change the law as soon as possible so that providers can launch grant challenges. And it is not only GA CR, it is not only TA CR, but it is all the challenges in operational programs that go into science and research. So I would like to ask - that is the introduction and then I will join the debate - I would ask, I know that there are some indications that someone would not like to support the 90th or veto it, I would really like to ask you if you would not go to the scientists and support the law to pass at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u3	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. At this point, the rapporteur should take the floor for the first reading, which was designated by Mr Jiří Mihola, who is, of course, excused, and I was told that his role would be taken by Mr Procházka, but we are at first reading, moreover, in the regime of Section 90. This amendment should be approved by the House. I will call again our colleagues, who are possibly in the foyer, and I will vote on whether the House agrees with this... I'm registering the check-out request, so please log in with your voting cards again. We will vote on whether the House agrees to the rapporteur's role as Member of the Procházka. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is a 103 vote, 107 Members registered, for 103, against no one. This proposal was adopted. And I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor. And I'm gonna ask for some peace in the room! Although there aren't that many of us, there's an elevated sound level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Thank you all for your confidence. I would just briefly say that the House Press has been delivered to Members on 11 November 2016 and, in general, it is a parliamentary proposal for an amendment to the Research Support Act, which aims to resolve the interpretational uncertainty and legal uncertainty of providers of funds for research, development and innovation, by specifying the definition of eligible costs. As the amendment addresses the current problem, this proposal is tabled in accordance with Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies in order for the Chamber of Deputies to give its consent at first reading. Otherwise, I think the petitioner said everything about the law, so I'm not going to do it anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. Now, with priority rights, he has volunteered - sorry, first I have to open a general debate, which is the first with priority rights to be reported by a member of the Government and Vice-President of the Government, Mr Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, since the other law is actually from my workshop, let me just explain. What Mr Vácha said, we have detected that the legal opinion, which is from our section of the Office of the Government, that this amendment is not necessary, that the legislation is directly applicable, was discussed with the providers. As the Grant Agency of the Academy of Sciences and others finally agreed to our legal interpretation, however, I tried quickly to correct the error, which was basically mentioned by my colleague, with the further proposal. However, if, after the discussions this week with the representatives of universities - if the proposal of my colleague Vácha passes at first reading, because the universities declare that this proposal is comfortable for them, so even though I do not think it is necessary, I will withdraw it. So if he passes at first reading, I'm downloading mine. It's a college wish. They take responsibility for the fact that the ÚOHS and others also pointed out that there are some problems that should have removed my proposal, so if it passes at first reading the proposal of my colleague Vácha, I will withdraw mine.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u7	I thank the Vice-President. Now, with Mrs Putnová's point of fact. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u8	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would also like to support the adoption of this amendment at first reading, because indeed universities are waiting for this amendment. They are watching us at the moment and are tense about what kind of guard the negotiations will continue. I think the gesture - I don't know if I can see it as an excuse for Mr. Vice Prime Minister - anyway, I'm flattered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u9	Thank you. Mr Ivan Pilný is now enrolled in the general debate. Mr. Antonín Seďa will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, of course I understand the urgency of this proposal, I have no problems with it. But there are two things I would like to ask you not to approve the course of this law at first reading under Section 90. I'll mention them. The first thing is - the proposal does not formally contain costs relating to pedagogical activities related to projects. This cannot be done if we were to discuss this at first reading, correct it, because it is certainly not a legislative technical comment. The second thing is that when we open this law No. 130, so we must remind ourselves that this law has been discussed here, there have been extensive amendments by a number of Members who have been rejected because it has been said that a new ministry will be created to address these problems. There has been an indisputable attempt by the Ministry, but it is clear that not only in this term, but perhaps never or within two years, there will be no ministry. It must also be said that an attempt has been made to correct the so-called. Caffeine, that is, the allocation of money to individual projects or institutions. The proposal was approved by the Science and Research Council. He's conformed to the Academy of Sciences, but he's got college problems. But I see that the basic problem of this metric is that the proposal for evaluation is still trying, if possible, to share fairly the money that goes on science, research and innovation. But in my opinion, it is public money that is being used and should be used as investment. This means that the basic parameter of the evaluation should be the return on investment. To reject such naive proposals like "we gave you the crown, give us back the crown twenty" I think it would be necessary to divide projects into two categories. The first is to serve citizens who cannot be commercialised and who simply have to be arranged by the state for citizens. The metrics must be different there, of course. And then there's the second part, these are projects that can and must be commercialized, but in a way other than that, it means not just by publishing professional journals and peer to peer review in journals or filing patents in the Czech Republic. Most patents that are part of this metric are served in the Czech Republic. You know what happens to the patents and where they'll be used in some way. I think we need to fix this. And if we don't do it now, that's Law No. 130 is open, so the nearest opportunity will occur in about two years. Until then, billions will flow into science, research, and innovation in the same way that they are now flowing. I understand the urgency of this proposal, which is why if you proceed to what I suggest, it means not to approve the passage of paragraph 90 at first reading, I will definitely propose a reduction of the deadline to 30 days in order to comply with the urgency of this matter. And on that occasion, there may be a correction that concerns pedagogical activity. Otherwise, I don't really have a problem with the proposal. I understand his urgency, but not taking advantage of this opportunity would be a shame. The amendments rejected by the House precisely because a new ministry was to be created are ready. They are already classified as House press, which means there will be no delay. They have been very thoroughly discussed from all sides. So I'm not expecting any delays here. Definitely if § 90 is not adopted, I will propose a reduction of the hearing to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to the next performer, I'll quickly read an apology. Mr Karel Fiedler excuses his absence from the agenda of today's meeting from 18:00 until the end of the day. Mr Antonín Seďa has the floor now. Mr Rostislav Vyzula will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, proposed amendment to Act No. 130/2002 Sb. it is intended to address the current problem where, according to the petitioners, the providers of special-purpose support cannot finance the cost of the investment intended to support research and development, nor can the providers provide financial resources for normal material expenditure directly related to the project's solution. According to the petitioners, this paralyzes the entire system of financing Czech research and development and threatens the drawing of European structural funds. So for this reason, I support the proposal here. In its opinion, the Government took a disagreeable position. This justifies the proposed change in institutional contribution status to higher education institutions. According to the Government, it would be possible to agree with the draft law if it were indeed a strict return to legislation before the adoption of Act No. 194/2016 Sb. In fact, the proposal lacks the second part of the adjustment of the eligible costs, originally contained in § 8 para. 3 Act on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation, which guaranteed that, even after the end of the relevant project, material and intangible assets were used for research, development and innovation activities. [[18.00 hours]] Dear colleagues, I have repeatedly suggested that other ministries, such as the Ministry of Industry and Trade or the Ministry of Defence, may also be providers of special-purpose support to finance research, development and innovation. Although my repeated efforts have not found support, I am still convinced that the future competitiveness of our economy, our industry is not only in basic research but, above all, in applied research and the introduction of its products into production. To, close links and cooperation of research and development bases with businesses and businessmen. At the same time, however, as I said, I support the removal of all administrative barriers that restrict the drawing of money into research, development and innovation. That is why I support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Vyzula is enrolled in the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also go to the mill with my little bit in terms of support for research and innovation. We have two House press that are both basically dealing with the same issue. But I am asking - all last year we have heard repeatedly from Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek that we will have a comprehensive amendment to the Research Support Act. Where is she? Where is this novel we're all waiting for? It may seem meaningless to you, but it is not a meaningless matter, because our Republic gives more than 30 billion crowns to science and research. And, of course, we care because we have good people, people like that who can create a lot of interesting things. You all know Professor Holý well and many others. But we don't know a lot of things, or a lot of research processes are so opaque, not transparent, that we just don't know what the quality of current research is. That's one of the things that might make it clear. We're not just after quantity, we're after quality. Finances for individual universities or institutes are divided according to the so-called RIV points. I'm not going to go into detail, but basically these points are based on how the research group works, how it publishes in impacted magazines. We know well that the last years of the world have been moving the so-called fake RIV points, obtained from fake journals with a high impact factor. Nobody's doing this with us. I can sign up with a completely insignificant job in a science magazine that has a high impact factor, and no one will know that I've cheated. That's what the law could do. Another thing that should be resolved is how we want to continue our research. We have excellent basic research, but we have unappreciated applied research so far. That's an area we're very interested in. Professor Holý himself, whom I mentioned, had to pass on his research abroad in order to apply it, only abroad, and to benefit from it. It is simply a number of issues that need to be settled, and therefore, I am not in favour of opening the law in the form that is now open, but, on the contrary, it is necessary to go through the discussions in the committees, where it would be enriched by at least some additions that will help scientists and researchers, because it is evident that we will not see the so-called comprehensive amendment from the ministry now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Karel Rais is entered into the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u16	Thank you. I would follow up on what has already been said here, specifically what Mrs Putnová said. They are simply waiting for us to define what is acceptable and unacceptable costs, especially in the area of investment. This brings me back to what my colleague Vácha said that in April last year, I was putting this amendment here. Unfortunately, he wasn't accepted, and now we're going back in a year. What my colleague Vácha offers, me and others, is certainly not ideal. Now that he's describing mistakes or what's bothering us there, I'd add that we're missing one part of what's going on with the cost recognition that's related to when these investment funds are used for teaching. A doctor who will work on a microscope for two hours out of ten, so we also need to get the twenty percent to the eligible costs. If there's a solution here that basically college schools - as the Vice-President said - will make it countable, I doubt it, because I know the behavior of the financial authorities three or four years ago and it's definitely not softer than this year, or it won't be softer this year than it was three years ago, then I think it's important what's in that law. Personally, I lack that part of the eligibility of costs in the case of the use of these means for teaching. On the other hand, I understand that the Ministry of Education needs the law to be passed. There's some mistrust here. A year ago, we heard from the Vice-President's mouth how the ideal law would be here. There's basically nothing here to forgive. It's kind of an optimization between two poles, and we're supposed to pick the better option. Unfortunately, from the perspective of schools, I think the better option is the bad one, because at least there'll be something on the table when the controls come in. I look at this very pragmatically from the point of view of university management. That's all there is to it. That it is ideal, as my colleague Vyzula said, to discuss it, there is absolutely no dispute about it, but the question is whether there is room for it, because the money for schools is unfortunately flowing and the Ministry needs some ground. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, I have a de facto remark registered to Mrs Benešová, but I know someone was leaning on her desk, so I'm asking if he might have pulled it. So I'm gonna erase you again. Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek is claiming priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u18	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, we really believe that there was no need to make this amendment, because it is directly applicable legislation and that it is treated in this way. However, both the Higher Education Council and the Czech Rectors' Conference say yes, let's accept it so that we can be sure. I think that it has its ratio and that in this case I will not negate it and, if it actually passes, I will withdraw my amendment, which had the reason to remove some imperfections, with the fact that we rushed to accept it in January. It didn't happen in the end, and now it doesn't quite have a solution. Otherwise, about the new law, of course, that's what we're working on. What happened here isn't entirely true. The government has already adopted the substantive intention of the law, now it's written, we're already discussing it, we'll send it to inter-ministerial commentary proceedings soon, so it's not true that nothing has been done. It's not like that. [[18.10 hours]] As far as evaluation is concerned, this is also not true. That's what the assessment methodology is for. The evaluation methodology is new and approved by the government. There is a significant, significant shift in the assessment of quality. Meet methodology 17+. More accents applied research. So what happened here isn't entirely true, it's only necessary to get to know it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u19	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Through the facility is registered with a factual remark by Mr Zlatuška, from the point of view is registered by Mrs Válková. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u20	Mr President, I would like to refer to what the Vice Prime Minister has just said to the address of what Mr Vyzula has complained about. I have intersected around a particular list of predatory magazines and those worthless publications for which money has been allocated in the past and will be in the future. I added a web link to the page where Science lives had a detailed list of these fake publications for which the state is giving public money. Probably no one clicked on this reference at the Prime Minister's Office in the Vice Prime Minister's section, because the answer was that they could not do anything about it, and nothing was done about the particular publications. So it's not true that there's something going on here, and I fully confirm what the critical colleague here said at this address.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with Mrs Válková's point of view. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u22	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, Mr President, this will look like an academic discussion that all the professors are required to perform, but perhaps it is because we are carriers of various "gachers" and "tachers." And I'm sure I've had that personal experience recently, and I know how much we miss the clarity of legislation and how much we've been looking forward to having a new law. Mr colleague, Vice-President Belbrádka, through the President, I have heard here about the paragrafo version several times, but we all know that, if it is written now, there is no way that this House can be approved during the term ending. So I'd just like to say that it was also a promise that unfortunately didn't come true. And unfortunately, that's what I'm saying now for all the colleges and research centers that it affects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u23	Thank you. President Laudát is now registered with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u24	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, I am only very briefly. What my colleague Vácha is presenting here is more or less a solution, or an attempt to solve some problem that has arisen. We will probably not reconstruct Czech scientific and research space at this time. He deserves it as salt. I regret that some amendments did not go through some of the amendments some time ago, if I am not mistaken in April, the second decade of April. But I would warn too much about it if we didn't pass the 90th - we would, of course, support her as Váchův's colleagues, but if she didn't pass, then I would urge you to support the reduction of the deadline to the minimum, because the amendment to the 100th is necessary. As for the matter, I hope that future governments will never understand the post of minister or vice-premier, whether in one position or another, as a political post. Maybe it's just that so far, science is for some guys to play. To everyone's regret, I have to say that this is no longer the case, and if you look at the developed countries and compare it with the conditions of what this issue looks like in the Czech Republic, we have unfortunately made a very dangerous turn towards the future and prosperity. I welcome the fact that social democracy is also beginning to report to this, but I would ask very much not to complicate the modern economy with further spells as far as possible. We have, for example, here. The amendment to the Labour Code to explain to Minister Marksová and some trade unionists how risky the Czech Republic is to put the labour market on the brink. As far as the evaluation is concerned, I am sorry that some things did not come sooner, but take the view that, although in some formal or factual parameters, Czech science does not stand badly at all, but for example. what is essential for industry are e.g. The patents and the tragically, tragically, we're failing. So instead of the number of articles, I'd like to make a very dramatic change in the assessment and scoring for someone to enforce or file and patent that the patent is then evaluated somehow. And as everything has to do with everything, we really have to go into the future - and it should happen and it didn't happen - change economic policy, but it really has to be managed by people who know modern industry, they know what it is Industry 4.0, they don't interpret as a national bank one expert, that they're some kind of fairy tales and such mode was like they didn't know that if they didn't come across it in the United States, that it's called a little different, that it's some kind of specific label that we took over from neighbouring Germany, or they joined it, that it's going to dramatically change our industry in maybe five years, maybe ten years, and if we continue to support such investment incentives like Amazons, warehouses, logistics centers, etc., we can forget that at least we're going to get closer to living standards, or so. all our citizens of the living standard of Western countries. I very much support, and perhaps it would be worth the government trying to at least prepare the documents by the end of the parliamentary term, because today the world lives in technology. These dramatically change everything, life parameters, health care, nature conservation wherever you look. And I really think that the Ministry of Economics, a sort of coordinating ministry for science, research, innovation, modern technology, and other things should be created by now. So I would ask very much - I do not think that whether we have thirty or ninety days, we will reconstruct Czech scientific and research and technological space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u25	Thank you. Mr Urban is now entered into the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I have nothing fundamental about these partial amendments, but I would also like to say, perhaps, on the basis of the Professor's speech, that this is not only a subject that should concern academic land, but, on the contrary, I would like to speak here as a representative of the user, a representative of at least the Czech industry, who will support this country for a long time, if we want to be a prosperous and rich country. And I think that if you look at the current situation and the state of the Czech industry, it's not bad in terms of some numbers that we can look at, we can see that it's just growing. On the other hand, it is at the limit of its possibilities and capabilities. Basically, we can say that the industry is on full throttle, that's all we can do, because we don't have enough workers, we look back at different states, who could come to us. The machines are spinning at full speed, and even though we're going at full throttle, we're going at a much slower speed than developed countries. And so we have to say, if we want to do it this way in the future, that is, if we just wait for those moments when there are fewer contracts and therefore fewer employees and we don't have to find them in Ukraine and we have to pay some unemployed people, and if we just kind of passively wait for economic cycles, which would probably not be good. [[18.20 hours]] I think we need to do something else. And that package of strategic decisions certainly includes a much larger link of research, development and innovation to the real sphere of industrialism, which is not to say that I have something against basic research. However, we must try to strengthen the product portfolio through the means we spend on development, research and innovation, which means that we will make products more attractive in industry and therefore also more expensive and desirable in the world. Of course, that's not enough. In addition, we must look for incentives to strengthen and modernise industrial technologies so that there is much more robotics, automation, and so on and so on. We just have to go the way that leads to higher added value and hence higher performance in terms of, say, gross domestic product per head. And the only way we're gonna do that is by being a company that's smarter, using every option so we can compete in this. And then, if we give full gas, maybe we'll go at that speed as advanced countries, and, of course, that's what wages pay in those advanced countries. One has to do with the other one way or another. I don't know how to talk about other fields, but that's probably gonna be the same as in the industry. The way of supporting applied research. At the end of this research, development and innovation, there must be commercial use. It can't just be publications. Although I understand that with the basic research because it's very difficult to evaluate. But on the other hand, I see so far a big problem between linking the corporate sphere to the research sphere. This is what I think must be improved significantly in the future. And in my opinion, this is not only about this law, but also about the Higher Education Act, where there must be some greater link to real commercial output with usability for the corporate sphere. I don't want to burden you for long. Of course, there are many other things that would be appropriate to do. When I was talking about technological modernization, we don't need any more buildings. We need those machines inside to be replaced with more modern ones. And on these new machines, more modern, we need to make new products. It's actually pretty simple. And if we are using public money here, in my opinion, we must use it in a more effective way for the future. It's nothing I want to define against the standards that are here today. But I think this is the basis of some economic vision of every future government, no matter how it is composed after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'd ask all telephone operators to make a little less phone calls, and everyone who's talking to each other if you're having a little less fun. Especially on the left, because the noise level is getting higher. During the rotation of the meeting, there may have been no apologies yet. I'll do it again just in case. Mr Komárek apologized from 18:00 until the end of the day for personal reasons, Mrs Pecková until 19:00 and Mr Adam Vojtěch for medical reasons from 18:00. I don't know if these apologies have been read, so let's make it okay. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. Yes, Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, about what my colleague Urban said. I totally agree with that, and that is also the three-year effort that we have done, when individual sectoral platforms were created. The whole industry is divided into seven platforms. National innovation platforms have been created and, on the basis of a long-term systematic debate on industrial needs, because industry already exceeds 35 percent of our GDP, for this reason, programmes are already being created, which are directly oriented to the needs of industry. So we already have the first program on energy at the Technological Agency, which is directly according to the needs of the individual sector, which has never been done here, when we really connect with representatives of the commercial sphere, scientific research centres and the state administration. And what fell here from a colleague of the Válková. It takes time to prepare a fundamental change. If you look at how long the law on universities was being prepared and what was left of it and how long the Civil Code was being prepared, which I don't want to compare completely, but it's a complete redesign of the map. It is precisely because we are going to reduce publications significantly in that weight and that applied research is much larger, so it takes time. Of course, the law, which is to redraw the map again as far as the organization is concerned, takes longer time. And we're doing this to make sure it's proper and ready for the next government. Because it turns out that there is no support in this government coalition for creating a new ministry. So we're preparing it for the next government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u29	I thank the Vice-President. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate on this point. I do not register any application for a general debate. I shall conclude on the general debate and ask for the final word of the appellant and then the rapporteur. Mr. plaintiff, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u30	Thank you for the floor. I will take advantage of the fact that I can speak as a plaintiff so that we do not prolong the debate. We've had a few performances here, which might generally be summed up as a call for a more comprehensive amendment to this law. We have now heard the explanation from Vice-President Bělobrádek. Yes, a new law would be necessary, but the work on it is certainly very difficult and it will take a long time. And I fear that if we were to open the law now, there would be efforts to transform it into an image of one or the group, and I fear that we will not achieve the same result as we did in April, when there were a huge number of amendments. If you remember that we were discussing some of them by asking you not to vote for them because they are unvoted. But we had to vote. I'm afraid if the law opens, it won't be the same condition as April. Therefore, I really ask you to reconsider the support of this law under Section 90. Again, I would like to say that the problem that this very thin and easy amendment solves is basically just two points in Section 2 paragraph. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. We only change two points there so that we can draw material costs and investments. [[Strong noise in the whole hall.]] The problem is that the issue of support for research and development is very complex, few people understand it and there are basically problems of state aid where we have the form of public and private support. These two forms meet in science and research, and I will respond to the performance of my colleague Sed. You said the government criticized that there was no § 8 para. 3. Paragraph 8 (a) shall not apply. 3 is literal - literal - the use of point B (5) of Article 31 of the European Commission Regulation. And the European Commission's regulation is more legislative. This means, already, that it is written in the regulation of the European Commission, that is true in our legal system and it does not have to be repeated in the law. That means it's useless.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u31	I'm sorry, rapporteur. I'm gonna need some peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u32	Plus, if we literally put this into the law, then if you buy a machine, and that also applies to what my colleague Pilný and colleague Rais were talking about, if we put this back into the law and bought the machine, then really the device can only be used for science. But according to European - now I don't know whether it's in the regulation or within, today these machines can be used out of 20 percent of science. They can be used, for example, to cooperate with the industrial sphere. That would prevent what most of you have been calling for. To connect the academic and industrial sphere. So we didn't put it in that law on purpose, because it's in the European Commission's regulation, in the block exemption, and so it's only effective for the public support. It's just the speeches. I will just repeat that we made the proposal on November 11th, on December 5th, the government gave a negative opinion on this. However, this negative opinion was given only by the Vice-President's Department, otherwise everyone else gave either a neutral position, the Confederation of Industry and Trade gave a positive opinion, three ministries said "we do not understand it, we will take the position of the Vice-President's Government." [[Constant noise in the hall.]] The government's negative position is based on several -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u33	I'm sorry again, Mr. Ambassador, but people are really talking out loud in this room. A little respect for the performer! Thank you. I'll name it next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u34	Colleagues and colleagues, if you promise to vote in favour of the '90s, I will, of course, no longer defend it and give you the floor to vote. [[with laughter]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u35	Is the rapporteur interested in the final word? He doesn't. In that case, I am ending the general debate. [[Objection.]] No? Sorry. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u36	It couldn't have been the final word when there's still a debate, it couldn't have been on the verge. I'd like to ask the translator, I've listened to him, who he's fighting. Really, I don't know who you're fighting. I've checked, no one's vetoed, no one's even hinted that he's against the '90s. [[Mr Faltynek's comment: Mr Pilný's Member.]] And, then, I apologise to the chairman of the Economic Committee. Now I know who you're fighting. Let's get him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-011-168.u37	President Stanjura was right, I did not end the debate and there were already final words. However, I am now ending the general debate. I'm asking the plaintiff if he'd like to add anything else, or if he's exhausted... [[The designer doesn't require a performance.]] Since we have closed the general debate, there can no longer be an objection to the procedure under Article 90 (1) of the Treaty. 2 and we will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on Houses of the Press 960 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'm gonna call in my colleagues from the lobby, and I'm filing for everyone's checkout. I'm gonna ask you to come forward again. We'll wait for the voter numbers to settle. I think whoever could've come here already. I will repeat - we will vote on the resolution that I have tabled that the House agrees to continue negotiations on Houses of the Press 960 so that it can be agreed with at first reading. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting 104, 118 entered, for 101, versus 8. This proposal was adopted. The motion for a resolution has been approved. I therefore launch a detailed debate and ask if anyone is reporting for a detailed debate on this press. I do not see any such application, then I conclude a detailed debate. I ask again whether the rapporteur or the appellant is interested in final words. It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of František Vácha, Jiří Zlatuška, Karel Rais, Vlasta Bohdalová, Anna Putnová, Miroslav Grebeníček, Petr Kořenko, Simeon Karamazov, Radim Holeček, Adolf Beznoska, František Laudát and Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor on the issue of Act amending Act No. 130/2002 Coll., on the promotion of research, experimental development and innovation from public funds and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, pursuant to House press 960." [[Act on Support for Research, Experimental Development and Innovation]] I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is a 105 vote, 120 Members registered, for 115, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I'm stating that the bill has been approved, and I'm done talking. [[Let's hear it for a few Members.]] The next item is paragraph 175. It's...
