ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-005-004.u1	4. Draft law amending certain laws in the field of taxation /German press 873/4/ - returned to the Senate The Senate returned the bill with amendments, and we received his resolution as House Press 873/5. I welcome Senator Pavel Štohl among us and I ask that the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Mr Andrej Babiš comment on the amendments tabled. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-005-004.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly comment on the Senate's return text. The tax package, as I consider it important to draw attention to the consequences that will arise if the Chamber of Deputies adopts a Senate amendment. [[It's busy in the hall.]] The content of the Senate amendment is a change in taxation, respectively. exemption from value added tax on the supply of immovable property. This amendment excludes from taxation those land which form a functional whole with a fixed construction of the country and also narrows the definition of the concept of building land in an undesirable way. The adoption of the Senate amendment will lead both before 2016 to circumvention of the Value Added Tax Act, so that land which is clearly ready for further construction will be issued as land not intended for construction and sold as exempt, even if it should be taxed correctly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-005-004.u3	Mr. Chairman, I'm sorry. I'm gonna cut you off for a second. I call you once again - some are talking out loud, some are on the phone - let's try to keep the peace in the hall. If I've been warning kids in my house for so long, then I have to punish them somehow. I usually take their tablets. I have nothing to take from you. I'm just asking for some peace in the room. Thank you. It's 7:42 p.m. Thank you. Please, you may proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-005-004.u4	So in short, if you vote in favour of the Senate proposal, you will vote in favour of circumventing taxes, to emphasise this. This change, in the view of the Ministry of Finance, is contrary to the Value Added Tax Directive and to the case law of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Its adoption puts the Czech Republic at risk of initiating infringement proceedings by the European Commission, so called. Infringement. This procedure may subsequently result in the submission of an action against the Czech Republic to the Court of Justice of the European Union and lead to the imposition of cash penalties. On the basis of the above arguments, I cannot agree with the wording of the Senate amendment and I propose that we remain on the wording of the tax package approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Finally, I would like to point out that if the Chamber of Deputies insists on the wording which it has approved, the effectiveness of the law will occur on the 15th day following the publication of the Act in the Collection of Laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-005-004.u5	Thank you, Minister. So, does the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee want to comment on the Senate's amendments? He's not interested in commenting. I therefore open the debate, and Senator Pavel Štohl will be the first to speak in the debate. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-005-004.u6	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. I will begin with why the Senate did not approve the tax package as referred to by the Chamber of Deputies. Because there was a lot of discussion about the VAT adjustment point in the area of tax deduction for Czech Television and Czech Radio. That was the main reason why there was actually a big debate, the guarantee committee did not adopt the resolution and the Senate, the Senate plenary, did not approve it. Then, of course, a detailed debate was opened, where there were a number of amendments, but only one amendment was passed, and that was the one mentioned by the Minister. I might agree on some things, some of them disagreed on what the Minister said here. First of all, it was until the end of 2015. It's not entirely true that the new amendment proposed by the Senate is going back to where it was by the end of 2015. By the end of 2015, only the land on which the building permit was issued was taxed. So, in fact, it went around and really didn't tax the delivery or transfer of the land. Then I think we went to the other extreme. So, by the end of 2015, the VAT on the land did not really pay. From 1 January 2016 we went to the other extreme, that will tax not only the land on which there is construction, but also actually the land that forms a functional whole with this construction, and now we are saying that, among other things, there is a problem, what is a functional whole that is related to the construction. I'll try to give you an example. I'm gonna want to build a family house, buy 400 sqm land with my wife where we want to build a house. Then the wife says the property is small and we'd like to buy a garden from the neighbor, which also has 400 m2. So we're going to buy it off, and then the question is: is it also the part that functionally forms the whole of the building? If you ask really tax advisors who specialize in VAT, they will tell you the truth that even if there is a methodological instruction that it is not clear. So that's one reason that if the Senate adopted the amendment that the Senate proposed would actually be removed. And the second thing, of course, is to reduce the tax burden on those who will build family houses. If we say - at least in the framework, you know how much money it is: if I want to build a house, I'll have a plot of some 500, 600 m2, the value of the land, at least in Znojmo, where I come from, is about a million crowns, so it's actually 15 percent equal to 150,000. So actually, at the moment, the land is 150,000 more expensive for ordinary citizens, because of course there will be VAT that they, as ordinary citizens, cannot claim. So it's just a brief explanation, the two reasons that are there. And then what does the Senate propose? He suggests that only the land on which the building will be taxed should be taxed. This means that it is not, I say, the same situation as until the end of 2015, when the land on which the building was built was not taxed, but only what is built. So that, perhaps, is everything from me to this amendment. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-005-004.u7	Thank you, Senator. I'm asking if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. And I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-005-004.u8	Good evening. It seems like we should decide by voting on the one thing that the Minister and the Senator spoke of, and that's just not true. That's the difference between the two versions, the Senate and the House. But we're supposed to decide something completely different. If you look at the calendar, you'll find that today is April 4th, unless I'm wrong, sometimes I get confused in the course of the House of Days, it's April 4th, and the effectiveness of some of the paragraphs proposed for change is January 1st. We've been late for more than a quarter of a year. The official reason for this proposal is that the coalition wants to increase discounts on other children and other children. And that's what a coalition does every year, so it could have been done at the same time, and it could have been effective from 1. 1. 2015, from 1. 1. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1. 2017. That's how it's written in your coalition contract, by the way, which is public, which I read. But you wanted to have three cheers, three times you wanted to be praised, as you think of those families, so we'll do it three times. And so you master the House's agenda so well that in April we vote on the changes that are proposed with effect from 1 January. And we look like we're deciding on taxes, VAT on land. I'm not going to respond to an example that I don't think is entirely appropriate. Then I'd advise you, Senator, when your wife asked you to buy another 400 meters, how to do it so you wouldn't have to pay the tax. 'Cause who wants to pay taxes, that's when they're legal instruments. We've got experts here, look around you, I'm sure you'll have some advice. [[19.50 hours]] But there are far worse things in that law. Therefore, we will not vote for either the Senate or the House's version. Because the government is verbally saying, especially before the election: We'll take care of those little businessmen, businessmen, small businessmen, we want to make their lives easier. And again and again, the government is reducing spending flats that are not used to not paying taxes, as some misinterpreted. If so, and you think so, order legal persons to have a flat-rate of 60 percent. This would not please our legal entities if you took their sales, that they could only mention 60 per cent of the cost, as a normal businessman does, and in the interpretation of some of you avoid paying the tax. And the tax base would be 40 percent of the revenue. Lawyers wouldn't really like that. And that would be the income of corporate tax if we introduced such flat rates for legal persons! So please do not use the justification that spending flats are used to avoid paying taxes. It's really not like that. The spending flats are used to simplify bureaucracy especially for small ones, and again you want to reduce the spending flats so that in three months you run around the squares and in your programs you have: We want to support small and small entrepreneurs in particular! Well, now you have a chance to vote against the Senate today, against the House version, so a little, at least a little for small and small entrepreneurs. Very often we talk about whether or not there's something sticky. I'm just reminding you that here, between first and second reading, the EET Act got into our tax package. And if you look at the results of the vote in detail, I must say that the comments were not entirely accurate. For example: the YES movement voted for exceptions for e-shops, but it failed. That's only partially true. Yes, the YES movement voted in favour of the proposal by the Minister of Finance, which introduced exceptions for e-shops, but it did not vote anymore - but it combined with the flat-rate tax and wanted to be put to the vote together - but the YES movement no longer voted on another amendment that proposed the same relief for e-shops. I didn't read about that anymore. We missed the opportunity, and we had amendments here, we missed the opportunity to return two VAT rates. I remember the Minister of Finance's speech when he was here defending the introduction of the third rate. And if I paraphrase it a little bit and I'm not exactly what he said, well, I'm unhappy about it, I think two are better, but we have some coalition, and we agreed on three rates within the coalition. I understand that, but when I see the vote at the last meeting today, and I'm allowed to predict tomorrow and the day after, the coalition really only works on paper. In each vote on each amendment or almost every amendment, a different voting coalition arises. It's not firm, it's spilling. We sometimes vote here with one government party against two others, with two government parties, sometimes we're against all three government parties and so on. So this is what we missed. We also missed the opportunity to change personal income tax, etc. So I just wanted to draw your attention not to the rather small difference between the House and the Senate version, but to the entire content of the law. Now let me comment on the benches behind me. How many times have we heard that the tax package is the key law of this government? [[She's pointing her way into the ministers' desk.]] See, okay? How many ministers came to support this key government proposal at 19.53? Three? Three. I don't even know how many members of the government we have. Seventeen, I think. Three out of 17! Very much. And you can't tell that from the participation. I think we have, like, five members of the government, there's usually three of them. Even the Minister of Culture isn't here today, which usually sits here. I have to appreciate that he's here quite often. He's not even here today. Well, I don't know when 17 members of the government were sitting here last. When you came for trust, I understand. But then I don't see many ministers here with these key bills. From where neither, from ČSSD one with the largest ministry in a row. And from the YES two movement, coincidentally the holders of party cards number 1 and number 2. At least the threesome. I don't know if a threesome is a minister, either, I don't know. But you have six ministers, right? Six. Perhaps the Minister of Regional Development is preparing for tomorrow's defeat. It's possible. And he doesn't want to vote today. She can't vote, I'm sorry. But she should be sitting here when it's crucial. That's what I think she should do, so we don't make excuses for her again. Originally, we wanted to stall a little bit, but seeing as you're 101, it's almost a shame, isn't it? Because I think the best thing we would have done if the law had not been passed in any version, neither in the Senate nor in the House. And believe us from the opposition to say that at least once in four years, the government has done something good for small and small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-005-004.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. If this is not the case, no one is reporting, I am ending the debate. Any final words from the plaintiff, the Minister is not interested, the rapporteur is not interested. Aren't you interested, Mr rapporteur, in the final word? So we will proceed to the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending certain tax laws according to House press 873/4, as approved by the Senate, according to House press 873/5.' I don't log out this time. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 50, 131 Members signed in, for 62, against 56, this proposal has not been adopted. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We shall now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. The number of votes required has already been set at 101. I will make a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves a bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, according to Parliament's press 873/4.' Initiating this vote, who is in favour, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting number 51, 133 Members signed in, for 106, against 23, this proposal was adopted. I state that we have adopted the bill. I hereby conclude this item and continue to interrupt this meeting until tomorrow, 5. 4. 2017, at 9 o'clock, when we continue the agenda, which will be the points of the third reading block. And I wish you all the rest of the evening. Goodbye.
