ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u1	99. Members of Zdeněk Ondráček, Hana Aulická-Jírovcová, Markéta Wernerová, Kristýna Zelienková and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial bailouts and enforcement activities (executive order), as amended /house print 238/ - third reading I ask that Mr Zdeněk Ondráček take the position at the rapporteur's table and that Member Jan Farský will be replaced by Mr Plíšek, who will play the role of rapporteur. The amendments are set out in the Parliamentary Press 238/3, which was delivered to you on 9 June 2017. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House's press 238/4. I ask the representatives of the appellants whether they wish to speak before the debate is opened. Yes, it is. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, House press No. 238 has arrived in the Chamber of Deputies 25. 6. 2014, more than three years ago. After a two-year outage, it was included in the Committee's deliberations. In 2016 he passed the committee in March, the next year we waited until we got to this point. When this third reading is over, no matter how it turns out, I'm sure it'll be a reason to celebrate tonight that we've even gotten this far. This amendment is quite simple. It extends the range of persons who can suspend a driving licence for parents of an aged child under 26 years of age who prepare for their future careers with a continuous study. There's nothing else in the original proposal. Your colleague will then introduce you to the amendments that have been made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u3	I thank Zdeněk Ondráček and open the debate in which I have Mr Plíšek, Mr Fiedler signed up and with a factual remark which can only be made after the first speech, Mrs Wernerová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor for your performance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, dear fellow Members, I would like to comment on the proposal tabled at this time on behalf of the TOP 09 MEP. I must say that we will support the original proposal because it can really lead to increased enforcement of child support, non-payment of child support, even in terms of students' children, not only until 18 years of age, as is the case so far. This means that this proposal is heading in the right direction because confiscating driver's licenses in maintenance defaults has proved successful. Unfortunately, I have to wait here to say that this is one of the forms to enforce law and alimony. But unfortunately, the government should have done far more to speed up legal proceedings and to make the law more enforceable, and when it does not, it must do so in its parliamentary proposals. So it is a contribution to improving the enforcement of maintenance, and it is a step in the right direction, but unfortunately, we also lack new procedural rules, which the government unfortunately did not submit and which should also have improved. So the designs that are under the letter. And that specifies the original proposal, we will support it. However, what I have a major problem with is the rapid adaptation of my colleague from Dawn to the introduction of the so-called "Dawn." territoriality, that means the territorial scope of executors, which is a proposal under the letter. B. From my point of view, such a fundamental conceptual change cannot be made by one amendment at the end of the parliamentary term. In this parliamentary term, we have intervened quite significantly in the activities of the executors, in the execution activity. We have approved, for example, a novel that protects the debtor's husband more, the debtor's husband. We have approved an amendment that precisely and more strictly regulates the recovery of individual claims and the order in which they are enforced by the executioner, just as we have tightened the conditions for self execution by, for example, recording executions and the like. Recently, you know that the Ministry has also reduced the fees to the bailiffs by decree. This means, these were clear interventions that have happened, and I do not think that it is appropriate to continue to engage in the activities of executors, and even in this way. We have had a long debate about this on the committee, and in my opinion, this proposal is the only one. It solves so that more money can be given to the bailiffs and less to others. But I don't think the state should whistle business, virtually. the business of its kind, which execution and executor activity is. This means that we should not enter into this and arrange for some larger and some smaller business in the framework of enforcement. In my opinion, this should not be done by the state. We would have to completely rewrite how executives are placed in their positions and what role they have in this proceeding. That means I'm against this intervention. Moreover, it has some practical implications. For example, I see no reason for centralised recovery of claims in order, for example, to provide this for some central authorities or institutions by one enforcement authority. I don't really see any problem with that. And the state shouldn't just redistribute money and business between executives. He shouldn't have such a role here, and he shouldn't interfere in this business. Another thing, of course, is, for example, a proposal that would allow it to merge the execution procedures for multiple executions with one debtor. But that's a different subject. That has nothing to do with it. This would be a step in the right direction and this adjustment is probably ripe for the next parliamentary term. So these unprepared changes that are contained in the draft under the letter. B, which would fundamentally interfere conceptually with the performance of its kind of executor business, we will certainly not support it either because no economic or other analysis has been submitted for this. And these changes really cannot be made at the close-to-last meeting of the Chamber of Deputies at the end of the parliamentary term. So that is why we will support the proposal as a whole, but without the amendment under the letter. B. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u5	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek for his speech and we will continue. I have two factual points, then an application with priority rights. Now, Mrs Wernerová, after that, Mrs Válková, with a factual point. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u6	Thank you. Beautiful day, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I wish. I will allow myself, as a co-president, to ask for the support of this proposal, because this proposal basically compares what I believe we should have done a long time ago, strengthening the rights of young people who are under 26 years of age and for whom the other parent has a maintenance obligation. From a legal point of view, it is a minor amendment to this law, but in fact, it can be about improving the quality of life of young students who always need funding to prepare for their profession. I think it's a good and good design, which is why it has my signature. And I would like to thank you very much for the debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee, because there was no jersey, there was always a good debate that had no partiality. And I would like to express my great thanks to colleagues who have supported this proposal, because it is about really increasing the enforcement of the law. It's for a clean design. All I can say about the amendments is that I agree with the opinions that argue that the amendments which introduce the territoriality of executors, I think that this proposal as such should go through discussion, and that is why I must also express my failure to support the amendment, and I therefore ask you to concentrate your interest and your attention on the pure proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Helena Válková's factual comment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I will follow up on my previous speakers. I would like to point out that, as far as the proposal itself is concerned, it represents, in essence, such an imaginary dot behind all amendments to the Enforcement Order in this parliamentary term, which goes in the right direction, as has already been said repeatedly. And I don't think that's gonna be a problem for any of us across the political parties, especially if we realize that otherwise, those non-payers end up in short-term unconditional prison sentences, which cost us taxpayers a thousand about a day. So it's certainly better if there's a milder penalty in the form of the driver's license seizure, and it concerns a wider range of cases, as proposed. With regard to the second proposal, as regards the amendment by Mr Černoch, by you, Mr Vice-President, I would just like to point out there that we have held several seminars, the last one I believe was in May, with the Executive Chamber, when we basically agreed that the issue must be dealt with prospectively, but that we have not yet closed the debate. And there were also quite a lot of Members there, I think. So I want to point out in this context that this has come out clearly: the debate is not closed, we must continue it. So it would be very irresponsible if we ended it by approving Mr Černoch's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u9	Thank you, Mrs Helena Válková. Now, with priority rights, Mr Karel Černoch and we continue with the duly signed up Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Have a good afternoon. Not Karel, it's Marek. I'm just going to respond to the two points that were said here. And one of them is whether we support or not. We will, of course, support the bill, because I think that over the four years it was possible to do much more in executions, unfortunately it did not happen, but at least the steps that have been taken, so I think they have brought at least a little alignment into the execution system. And here, as has already been said, the imaginary dot behind this electoral period by approving this bill, which helps children who are preparing for their future life, is correct. On that second point, on the amendment. I have applied to him, it is Mr Fiedler's amendment, but I agree with this proposal. And I must say that I am sorry, as has been said several times here, that there is a need for a longer discussion on this subject. Four years, four years could be discussed. The first draft was here about six months after this House started working. This proposal has been returned to work, which has not been done. But more importantly, a proposal came from the Senate, which is here, and now I don't know exactly for months, about two years. For two years, we have tried to include this proposal with several colleagues in the discussion. It's a proposal that I think has a head and a heel that is very well worked out. It didn't happen once. That is why I am puzzled by the argument that there is little time and that it should be discussed. It is true, it should have been discussed, but it should have been discussed sooner rather than trying to block this proposal. So, therefore, an amendment. As far as the territoriality of executors, or local jurisdiction of executors, is concerned, it is a system which, to the public, puts executions on the dormitories of local jurisdiction, thus helping in the fight against corruption, helps in the fight against some large-scale executor authorities, because not all executors work illegally. Debts are meant to be paid, that's true. Unfortunately, the situation that still exists in executions despite the changes that have occurred is tragic. And if you go out and ask people in election campaigns how they look at executions, I think they'll all be very clear and in your eyes. If this happens, I hope, because, as I have heard here, there is no will to approve the amendment, if this happens and does not approve, then I will believe that, at least in the next parliamentary term, as promised here - now I will turn to my dear fellow Válková, Mr President, as you said, that this situation needs to be addressed, so that this situation will actually be dealt with in the next parliamentary term, that it is not just idle promises that are made before the next elections. I will still believe, and I hope that maybe there will be a change in your mind and that you will support the proposal and the proposal will pass. Because I think that people really deserve to take action in executions that can destroy a person's life, literally and to the letter to destroy life, so that they really take steps and they're not just cosmetic changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u11	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler, duly enrolled in the debate, will be prepared by Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u12	Hello, good noon, colleagues and colleagues. So I would confess to the authorship of Amendment b. There is a trošku of noise there, because I was not present at the second reading, so my colleague Černoch introduced it and activated it by volunteering, otherwise I am the author of the amendment here and I would like to express myself mainly against the few untruths that have been said here. The first truth is that it was prepped in a hurry. As the previous speaker said, Senate press number 499, which was, as you say, no discussion. There was no will to have a discussion. That is the truth that the executive lobby has so long to do with the Chamber of Deputies that the Chamber of Deputies has always had such long fingers in two years, because the Parliamentary press number 499 of the Senate that dealt with this has arrived here in the Chamber of Deputies on 29 May 2015, more than two years ago, and the execution lobby has so long fingers that most Members have always rejected this point. A colleague of the Černoch suggested it several times, as far as I remember, I suggested it several times, but you always had more important things to discuss than what concerns more than 800,000 citizens. That's the first lie. Another thing, which is not a quick amendment here, because the amendment, the truth, is a rather significant amendment, which intervened in the original material, but is based on what the senators have submitted, what the senators have proposed, and they have certainly spent a long time on it, and the Senate proposal of our senators is quite similar to what I have said here several times - I believe the Slovak National Council approved in Slovakia last October. So I reject the reservations and complaints that this is some kind of quick-action. [[12.30 hours]] The truth is that the parties to the government coalition are cheating on their constituents, cheating on their citizens, because in the government's statement, you have respected coalition parties to address this point. You have committed yourself to this in your government statement, which I believe arose sometime in early 2014. So you had enough time to deal with it, but you didn't have any will, virtually. I would call it literally unwilled and intent not to discuss this, on the contrary, prolonging the current situation, which is accompanied by a number of problems in the performance of executions. As I recall, 800,000 executions - sorry, it involves more than 800,000 citizens, and there are many more executions, there are multiple executions. And the fact that some of the checks that have taken place show that I have also mentioned this here in the interpelation, when the executor has repeatedly, following calls and warnings, carried out violations of the law that he has already been alerted to, for a period of even five years, if I remember correctly, certainly does not say that the current state of execution is correct. I also reject absolutely the fact that someone here is trying to restrict or change business. I absolutely disagree with the fact that execution is to be a business. Don't be angry with me, my colleague Plíšek, the rapporteur, and I consider it a shame, the performance of the execution by calling it a business here publicly. It is supposed to be a delegated exercise of state power, not a business activity for achieving enormous profits from some executives. Because those executors need to be separated. Unfortunately, the view of society, the public's view under the impression of a number of excesses that took place, is that they completely throw them all together. I know it's not right that there are executive agencies that are trying to do according to the letter of the law, and then there are executive agencies that have made it a really good business, shark business. And families suffer from it, children whose parents have to pay unnecessarily high costs. Here is not the biggest problem of the executor's remuneration provided by the law, but the amount often times wrongly charged or overvalued costs of execution. That's the basic problem. Not his own execution. I, of course, take the view that debts are to be paid, that the executor's remuneration is to be what the law states, but proportionate. But the biggest problem with executions is the cost of executions. And that was what this amendment was trying to do, or my amendment. Let me just mention one more thing. The absent Minister Pelikán mentioned that in the government's action plan, which I believe adopted by the government sometime in January of this year, I do not know exactly, the date on which the government's action plan was adopted will be addressed and put forward a proposal to the Chamber of Deputies. I was here at the microphone saying that it's for a) nonsense and b) that I don't believe at all that the government will present this amendment, and both are correct. It has not been submitted, nor has it been intended to present it, because, as you know, there is no such amendment in the House system that Minister Pelikán, perhaps Prime Minister Sobotka, has spoken of here in the Chamber of Deputies, and has not arrived. So it's not that I was trying to solve something with the last-minute amendment. But what I'm saying is that there was an ill will to solve the huge problem that there is in performing executions. It is a matter of your conscience, Members of Parliament, as you will vote, if you send it back to the ice. I'm just saying that they accepted it in Slovakia, it's not a quick-change proposal, it's based on what the senators have done, and I believe they've done it responsibly, with the best knowledge and conscience. And the fact that you're here demonstrating that you're going to write something in a government program or in a coalition agreement, and it doesn't concern you any more, which we've seen many times, you can now sadly confirm. What's left to say in conclusion? I suspect that the amendment will not be accepted, because the will is enormous. But think again if you want to give it a chance, because the fact that one mandatory has, as I found out, 18 executions performed by the same executor is not normal. You want to prolong this situation further? It is a matter of your consciousness and conscience, as you will vote. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u13	I thank Mr Fiedler. My colleague Benda will be able to wait. Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek came forward with priority rights. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u14	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to welcome Mr Fiedler's speech through you. I think that much of what he said is reasonable, and it is also true that there is certainly a deficit in the government, I admit. The Justice Department didn't submit a standard to modify that. This is a really big problem involving many people. Some are responsible for this, but many have really become victims of a system that is not well - set. The need for adjustment is quite clear, and perhaps the debate that has its meaning will be about the scale and the technical issue in particular. I am very glad that it was said here that debts should be paid. And I also think that the borrower should think about who he's lending to and under what conditions. That it's really two bowls of weight. And you can't forget the creditors, because he's also responsible. And if some have the conditions set up so that they expect that tens of percent of people won't pay them anyway and that they'll just have the execution and that it'll pay off, then, of course, it's a parasitic and unacceptable approach to the whole system. On the other hand, everyone has to decide whether to borrow under any conditions, and all they have to do is balance it out. I also agree that the bailiff enforces the law and must enforce it so that it is dignified and fair, so that it does not lead to the excesses we know again. I also think that there has already been a shift in this, many have changed for the better, but I agree that some other parameters make sense. It is a problem that worries people, and I think it is a good thing that this initiative has come. And I'm also sorry to say it for the government, and to admit the mistake of not submitting our own standard as a government. In that case, I think you can appreciate the petitioner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister. One more priority right for Mr Marek Černoch, then the duly registered colleague, Mr Marek Benda. He's patient. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would like to appreciate what Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek has said. It's true, absolutely true. I'll just add that from March, according to statistics, there are 834,000 people in execution, almost half of them have four or more executions, and 145,000 people have more than 10 executions, which I think is a very alarming number. The reason for the submission of a proposal for local jurisdiction was to help people who are exactly in this situation in order to negotiate order. That was it. That's why we designed this place. And as my colleague Karel Fiedler said, we tried to include it several times, unfortunately, it's not that it wasn't discussed, but it's that there was no will. That's the real reason. And I think it's good to be straight with you. She wasn't willing to discuss the system problem of executions. [[12.40 hours]] And one brief response to Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. I think the problem is somewhere else, because this is already, here we just deal with the consequences and the consequences. We have also tried to avoid these causes, and unfortunately we have also not been heard in this, when consumer loans, non-bank institutions, were approved here, for example, by the ceiling of the RPSN. We haven't been able to get this thing to work out. Because unfortunately, the problems arise. And it's true, some people do it to themselves, and maybe there's a lot of them doing it to themselves, but a lot of people get into it either with their own guilt or because they don't know. And that is also one of the points that I think would be worth solving for the next House. And that's financial literacy in schools. There's a lot to learn in schools. I think how many times even things that don't really bring efficiency into life. But financial literacy is a thing that I think children should know and should learn from a young age how to treat their finances and what to watch out for. Because if you look at TV ads before Christmas, every second or third is about lending you whatever you want. And the thing is, after Christmas, maybe those people won't be able to pay it back. These are things that I think children should know since they were young, and they should be prepared for this. And that it can also be included in compulsory teaching already in primary schools. But our proposal is really about that, and it's discussed, and I think it's discussed, it's a Senate proposal that's worked out very well, and this proposal, if it went through, it would do some sort of order in that way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u17	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Before I give the floor to Mr Václav Votav, I will read the apology received. Mr Tomio Okamura apologizes. Mr Karel Pražák and Mr Pavel Plzák apologize until the end of the day. Václav Votava, Petr Kořenko and a colleague of Marek Benda I will now ask for further patience. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to respond to my honored colleague, Marek Černoch, whom I respect. I'll take it from the end. Yes, he's right. The familiarity of people with their finances is really not good when I put it that way. Financial literacy is very low. And there's a lot to be done. I've appealed to this place several times. As for consumer credit or who actually lends money, Mr. Vice Prime Minister here has also bitten it off, so I'm going to argue a little bit with my colleague, Mr. Černoch. We have taken a rather important step by adopting a new consumer credit law in that we have, I don't want to say, been liquidated now, I wouldn't dare say, but they have reduced radically the number of non-bank providers. Today, those licence applications, because today those providers must have a license at the Czech National Bank, are really very few and it may be up to hundreds of these entities. By the way, there were about 50,000 of those before, those providers and intermediaries. And we have made the conditions on which a loan or loan can be granted significantly more difficult. They must thoroughly check those institutions interested in the loan or the loan, whether they are able to repay it at all. So I think that's a pretty important step to make. Of course, those local loan sharks, they don't exactly disappear. Unfortunately, even people who don't get credit or loan in a normal way will still go to them. But that is the question of law enforcement authorities. Because this business is then a business beyond the law, it's illegal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u19	I thank Mr Votav. Now, Mr Petr Kořenek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u20	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I mean, when it came down here that it should be learned, financial literacy, it's listed in the curriculum newly. I think that financial literacy in some form has been taught in the past since at least 2010. The problem is, do we have a sufficiently erudized number of people who can teach it and who understand the issue? But other than that, I just want to say that education certainly didn't go to sleep, and it knows about this issue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u21	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. Mr Miroslav Opálka's point of fact is now still being made by Mr Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I'm just trying to avoid living the illusion that financial literacy will solve everything. Psychologists report that there are between 10 and 20 percent of people in society who have no perspective on thinking. And it's not just some ethnic minorities. They just live day to day and the day they have the money, so they're able to spend it and then they don't care. Their horizon is a maximum of two days, a maximum of 14 days. That is why, in some states, wage advances are still paid or paid weekly. So on that side, it's definitely not gonna be what solves the problem. And the second thing, of course, is the psychology of advertising. Advertising psychology is very predatory and especially for these citizens, who convince them that they must have it and can't live without it and that they get it, even though they don't have it right now, they're just gonna get in debt. That's all I wanted to say. It's not a matter of substance, it's a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u23	I thank Mr Opálek. One more point in fact from Mr Marek Černoch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u24	Thank you for the floor. Yes, it's a question of psychology, it's true. And if you look at ads - cigarettes and smoking can't be, alcohol can't be. Which seems a little illogical to me, because alcohol can do exactly the same thing. And the same goes for different non-bank institutions and various loans that really drive these people into a spiral that they can't get out of. It is true that many of these people do not think about what they will do in 14 days or in a month, where they will take it, or in two months, where they will take it, but think that if they get the money, what they will buy for it during the two days you have talked about, my colleague, through the President. So, yes, it's true, but I think this is where we're supposed to start working. This is where the beginning should be. And I also agree with the honourable colleague Votava that steps have been taken to give clear rules in a certain way and not to get into situations that I think have been really intrigued by science fiction. Because if the money really was lent to anyone who went to the bank, they didn't give him a loan, so he went around the corner and they gave it to him, and then he got into this situation, so it's good that there were some steps to be taken. But I think there's really more we can do about it. And that is the reason, even then, within the consequences and consequences that are being solved. And we know very well, I think there's been an x-time talk here that some executors are simply taking advantage of their positions, their roles. I don't say everybody, but some people just do it. And even if they have clear rules, they still go around the rules. On top of all that, it must be added that a lot of the money that has to be paid is being packed and it is not exactly executor's money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u25	Ambassador, I would ask you not to abuse the Rules of Procedure and my patience. Now there is a factual remark by Mr Pavel Blažek, who also has a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u26	Thank you. I want to thank my colleague Opálek for his - and he knows that I like the color of his voice and that I want to enjoy it because by not running anymore - he pointed out that there is far from everything in that financial literacy. After all, our great-great-grandmothers and great-great-grandfathers may not have been able to read, but they knew that they could only take on duties that they were able and willing to fulfill. That's where it is. Because the question is extremely ethical and legal, and it's just that today's society is getting used to it, that everyone has some rights to everything, and it kind of wears out words like duty, responsibility, etc. That's what this is all about! On the contrary, I would say that, for example, in the 1990s, the sudden opening of the economy showed that there was sometimes overcalculation, how many people were able to read from different laws and the possibilities of various negotiations to get to the property here, here to other advantages. So it really won't be in financial literacy. It's just a nice excuse, but in short and well, the last generation, including mine, isn't like I'm complaining about some younger, etc., they've somehow gotten used to having more rights, and somehow our responsibilities and responsibilities are disappearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u27	I thank Mr Pavel Blažek and Mr Fiedler's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u28	I think I'm gonna get off in a regular discussion, but I want to respond to my colleague Blažek. That financial literacy should also increase with bankers, banks, because they probably don't have sense when they force loans on people who obviously don't have enough money to pay them back because they sin on the fact that the executor gets at least something out of them. I don't know what they're doing together, but I've registered an enormous interest in the Banking Association's continued state of affairs. And I would like to thank the absent Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek for mentioning that the providers should also bear the risk. And I fully agree with that. To Mr. Votav. Yes, I agree, but many of today's executions, which have been going on for years, are from the period when they came home in an envelope of cards: take it, choose money from an ATM. Nobody knew me. The banks did it as a sense-deprived, as a sense-deprived, they did loans. The loans are just part of the execution problems, so we understand each other, that's not all. But when my colleague Blažek here was talking about financial literacy, I'm saying that financial literacy should also be promoted by the loan providers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u29	I thank Mr Fiedler for his time on the point of fact. Now the de facto comment by the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. He applied for a factual note electronically, a colleague of Marek Černoch just by raising his hand. Please, Mr. Chairman, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u30	I think Mr Blažek was absolutely right. Nobody's forcing anyone to take that loan. And if we say banks are using a mortgage, which is a very common banking institute in a civilized world, that means if you're lending money, you're guaranteeing something, it's perfectly logical. And let's be honest, how many executions arise from unpaid fines, the unpaid fees prescribed by the cities. Those aren't dramatic sums. Many of those who have executions simply know in advance that they will not pay, and they do not really care. So we can't always just say the unfortunate case, and there are cases where people fall into debt traps without their own guilt. You can lose your job, you can get worse and suddenly what seemed simple, that I have income secured and that I will pay back without any problems until the end of the loan, and suddenly the situation is dramatically different. But often, too, these people who have this problem don't solve the problem, they don't come in trying to set up a payment schedule to put it off. I don't want to talk about consumer credit. I consider these to be high-risk on the part of those who take them, because these are things that can be postponed. However, if someone takes housing loans and guarantees, for example, the acquired property, I consider it the right step for those people, because if we go back to the question of pensions, and we can talk about the first pillar, the third pillar, the cancelled second pillar, one of the best benefits of pension is to live in our own. That's a good investment if somebody does. But that, at the same time, the instruments of the pledge, such as the property, are used, is logical. So I wouldn't want the debate to be one-sided and that the culprits are the ones who provide. Only. It's not like that at all!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u31	Mr President, thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Marek Benda, Zdeněk Soukup, Karel Fiedler, has now made a factual comment because they have used an electronic application. [[To the messenger. Black guy.]] My colleague Benda has a lot of patience, but he did use a factual remark after all. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u32	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I was very patient to perform in peace with a normal contribution, but when this slightly incredible debate on financial literacy started, I was just thinking, and now everyone here is saying how it is taught in schools and how great it is. You know the old Bible story about Josef, who when he saw the seven skinny cows and the seven fat cows, he said watch out, we have to start saving money in those granaries, they're gonna be skinny years. And how do we want to teach someone financial literacy when all finance ministers in the last 20 years have said "we can spend even more"? And he was the current Prime Minister, the current Minister of Finance, an excellent financial expert, who says: yes, we are growing, but we have to spend far more than the revenue of the state budget. And with this logic of finance ministers, prime ministers, and others, do we feel like we're supposed to tell people to save money? Shouldn't we start by ourselves in the first place?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zdeněk Soukup's point of fact is now being made, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u34	I've only been very brief. I'd like to turn to Marek Benda for you. Marek, that was really far from the point. But I wanted to respond to Mr. Stanjura. You know, what my colleague Opálka said about the fact that there are people here who just don't have financial literacy, that's a fact. And it's not like they're gonna pay for it. We'll pay for it, like consumer credit. I always loved that when I was in my original job as an editor of Czech Television, when we filmed those different home credits before Christmas, and how many people are sitting there that you see normally waiting for social benefits. And who do you think's gonna pay if they get a bill? Again, we of the benefits in immediate material distress, part of which we will pay. And I even talked to people from these companies, from Home Credit, etc. They're already counting on it, they've got it calculated basically into their risky projects and their losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u35	I thank Mr Soukup. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Marek Černoch and then by Mr Jaroslav Holík. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u36	Of course, I agree with my colleague Stanjura. What Mr Stanjura said here, I agree. I'm saying I'm targeting this segment of executions that has major social implications. If a man who has ten executions for not paying for city transportation is sorry, he's an idiot. I'm just not gonna say it any other way. I'm not targeting these people with my proposal. I aim for those who are destroyed. After all, I've already said that, and so did Minister Bělobrádek, about the risk that he must bear on large claims, executions, and the creditor. Only I don't have an exact number right now, but the absolute majority of all executions are up to 10,000 in debt. So it's not the biggest problem, as my colleague Stanjura said right for living, it's a convenient loan, yes, but I don't know exactly the figure right now, I'm waiting for the report I get, the absolute majority of executions are marginal amounts of up to 10,000. [[13.00 hours]] And I think with this proposal that there are families who live on the edge of social exclusion. We know how the biggest executives make good money. I don't envy them. But just so you know, colleagues, let's get this straight again, 80 percent of the execution volume is taking 5 percent of the executors out. It's an absolute discrepancy. Wasn't that the transfer of power of justice? We have this anomaly somewhere in the exercise of judicial authority, which was originally to be the execution? It's not supposed to be business. It's not supposed to be business.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marek Černoch, then Mr Jaroslav Holík, then Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Olga Havlová - all with a factual remark. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u38	Thank you for the floor. I didn't quite understand Mr. Benda when he was talking about the fat cows, whether I should have been offended or not. [[With a smile.]] If that was targeted... It wasn't. Thank you. The noise wasn't quite understood, but I believe it wasn't. Yes, if someone doesn't pay for community services, for public transport, for something else, they'll forget about it, it's his fault. If I do that, I'm stupid. Unfortunately, there are then interest rates, which, I think, are also not quite right, when the amount, which is originally marginal, grows to a high amount, which then exceeds the execution very often. And yes, I agree completely that people should pay for it. You can't go black, knowingly, I'll blow it off. I'm not paying for the trash cans, I'm blowing it off. They're gonna text me, I'm gonna blow it off. Then there must be punishment. But it's supposed to be that he's going to recover the amount that's owed, plus some of the costs that are connected to it. And there's really a lot of these sums. This is what my colleague Karel Fiedler said, that the small sums are most and unfortunately they are also very often unenforceable. And a colleague of Blažek. It is true that the great-grandmothers, by your means, Mr President, were probably more responsible for the great-grandmothers, but they didn't have a TV in every room that would drive them to the head every day, that they could be lent, and it doesn't really matter where people would take it. That's a bit of a problem. And the amendment that we are proposing, and the one that Mr Blažek likes the Beatles group, the title of the Help song... That's the point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u39	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Now, Mr Jaroslav Holík, with a point of fact, will be prepared by President Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, it's Friday one o'clock, and I'll lighten things up a little. I will make this easier on my own example and, more or less, I will follow up on the words of my colleague Benda through the President on financial literacy. In the late '90s, I was in business, leaving the company, more or less, and the company that's still left bought certain goods that she sold, but when I left, they said - but you could pay for the goods or put some on it. It was $200,000. I, of course, refused, the dispute dragged on for about five years, the debt gradually increased, and in the end it became a million. The lawyer I had once didn't show up to court without an apology, so I had to pay the million. I sued a lawyer, I won the trial, but it turns out she doesn't have any money, so it was handed over to the Executive Company Crow. She sold part of the house that belonged to her, and the proceeds were sufficient only to cover the compensation of the executor company Vrána. So just for your interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u41	I thank Mr Jaroslav Holík for his comments. Before we continue with the factual remarks, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The Minister of the Interior Chovanec apologizes today from 13 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Soukup from 13.45 a.m. to the end of the day and colleague Štětina from 13.30 a.m. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura with a point of fact, Mrs Havlová will also be prepared with a point of fact. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u42	Well, I'd like to put the debate back on the bank debate one more time. I think that we rightly and proudly say that our banks are enjoying good financial health and stability and that this is also crucial for the development of the economy so that we have a stable banking sector. Unlike us, many of you support the fiscal compact, the entry into the Banking Union, when our taxpayers are supposed to guarantee the loans of other states, citizens of other states, or so. is also partially paid. First of all. Two. If banks listen to you and stop lending you or start providing them in lower volume, what happens? First, there will be higher interest rates, and second, these people will go elsewhere. Whoever wants to unreasonably borrow money if he fails at the bank goes to a non-bank institution. And if he doesn't succeed there, then you don't even want to know where he's going, what interest is there, and how they're going. This has to be in some sort of balance. I reject the simple view that banks are responsible for everything. I don't think that's it at all. And I think the regulatory conditions of the Czech banks have been tightened up. Well, I don't quite understand it now. Either we forget what we are dealing with in other laws, we forget what good Czech banks are in. Those banks also have credit losses, and that is the parameter that the Czech National Bank is monitoring. So, of course, it's in their interest to provide secured loans and possibly benefit from them. Yesterday, we were discussing a Senate bill here to make it easier for the people in the cooperatives and the community of owners to have irresponsible neighbors. And that's how small amounts make up the debts. And then there are tens of thousands and hundreds of thousands. Luckily, we supported the proposal yesterday. Let's not forget that, and let's not keep that look one-sided all the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u43	Prime Minister... [[He's pointing out the time.]] Thank you. Now, Mrs Olga Havlová, then another factual comment by Mr Marek Černoch and Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u44	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. The fact that executions have become a business has really been allowed to happen in our country, which is wrong. I was here at second reading talking about it. I said how they have it in other countries, where they have fixed amounts of executions, and it can't turn out like in our country, that they have 16 travelers for 16 executions, so that costs go up there. One-tenth of the nation is waiting for this law, and we are having this long discussion here. And what doesn't really come out here is that they're paying back the state by saying that the costs are going up because you realize that a lot of people here aren't officially going to work because they're getting their pay cut, so a lot of people are doing it black and need to deal with this here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u45	Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová. Now, Mr Marek Černoch, with a factual point and another factual point from Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u46	Thank you. I agree with Mr President of the ODS, Mr Stanjura, through you. It's true that rather than these people going to those borrowers that you haven't talked about and whose ways are really beyond the law, it's better to fix the banks that they're going to lend and where they're going to have some regs. But this amendment is not about banks. I'm going back. It's about the enforcement system, the enforcement of executions as such. It sounded here, I don't know if yesterday or the day before yesterday - we approved here in one law, whether the court has a circle that will automatically assign individual cases, or whether it's the presidents of the courts. This is exactly the same thing. It's a wheel that will automatically assign executions to individual executors in the county. It's simple. The executor will be able to deal with the case and there will be no current situation. It's really simple, it works in other systems and in other cases. And I think that even in executions, this system can be used very effectively. That's what the proposal is about, nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Karel Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u48	We're out of information. Within 10,000, the amount recovered is 60 per cent of the execution. One argument, one figure. About what Mrs Olga Havlová said. I already talked about this when we were here at second reading and when I suggested it. Impacts for the state. What you're trying to keep at the moment to 5 per cent of the executives that control 80 per cent of the sums recovered. For your information, I don't know exactly how many executor offices there are, around 160, 5% is somewhere eight-ten, so that ten executive offices continue to make fantastic money, as my colleague Havlová said, we'll pay social benefits, minimum of life, they won't be unemployed, they won't pay benefits, because those who have execution work black because when they work officially, they'll be distracted by the executor authorities. [[He's raising his voice.]] So you, fellow Members, actually want to maintain well-being here for about the ten largest executor agencies, and we're going to be constantly paying huge amounts from the state budget on social benefits, housing contributions, living minimums, and everything to make these ten executives live around here fantastically and prosper. [[Vote from ČSSD Members: Don't yell!]] I'm against it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u49	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now it has finally reached a colleague of Marek Benda, who is duly enrolled in the debate. He's ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u50	Dear Vice-President, dear last two ministers, ladies and gentlemen, after a series of educational factual remarks which I think lasted a little over half an hour, a few comments on this bill and, in particular, on what we are discussing, that is the territoriality of the executors. The first point concerns the presence or absence again of the Minister of Justice. If you remember, on Wednesday he told me how much he liked to go to the House and how the most frequent guest is here today, that he really began to enjoy it and that he was really looking forward to the next term when he was elected in Prague. So we see that he has an execution order here. I know it's a parliamentary proposal. But undoubtedly, the one who should be most interested in this is the Minister of Justice. I don't see him here today. He probably has some more important duties than execution, territoriality, and other small things that are being discussed in this House. Unfortunately, the problem is that a large part of the matters referred to here in the debate should be dealt with, it should be dealt with precisely in the order of execution, which should be processed by the Minister of Justice, no one else, especially the question of multiple executions, how to get them to be under at least one bailiff, and other and other things, but which we do not have, which they repeatedly only promise us. Then four months before the election, he'll bring in the total debt of all those who owe too much, from which they'll only have insolvency administrators, wondering if we'll put this on his head, say why we should let insolvency administrators make money, what makes sense. But no real solution. The Communist Party's proposal, and you know I rarely defend it, but it's been here for three years, it's trouble-free. Looks like everybody's gonna approve it today. But three years were expected, and three years of the government coalition mostly hindered its discussion, because the Minister of Justice will bring a different, better, comprehensive solution that will solve everything. [[From the news table, it's a system solution.]] System solution. Yes, a system solution, as my colleagues tell me. Well, we can see how many complex, new, better system solutions he's brought us. He didn't bring anything. We need to discuss the proposal that our fellow Communist Party has for three years, and now we are finally going to approve it famously. Well, that's the first thesis. The second thesis that concerns the famous territoriality. Honestly, I have the advantage that I was about 16 years ago, when the executor law was passed, he was one of the few who didn't raise his hand for him. Without having a very clear feeling at the time and feeling why it was wrong, I had somewhere inside, I thought to myself, it seems to me that it's not quite well set up. I didn't need to raise my hand for him. That means I'm not the culprit of how the execution authorities were founded here, how they were created. And I think that all the people who voted for it then, after months and years, were gossiping about the cone and saying, well, I'm not quite sure that's how I pictured it. I think the idea was really different, not that these giant authorities are going to be created. However, they invaded. We've been dealing with problems that are connected to them for 12 years straight. Each minister brings repeatedly... I think a lot of things have calmed down. And a lot of the things that are being pointed out here today, like the costs of execution, travel costs, are solved for ten years. And if anybody's quoting stories like that, they're stories that are long, long ago invalid, virtually. These are stories that have taken place, often unfair to those people, but they can't go on today. And today, only a large part of the executors are behind the territory. Just so we know. Yes, the executive chamber voted to want territoriality because there are more small ones against the big ones, and they want redistribution. They want to redistribute and they walk and they say, "Redistribute the market for us." It'll be fairer that way. We'll each have a certain part of the package. We will each enforce whether someone is capable or incompetent, enforces righteously or unfairly, makes mistakes or makes mistakes. These are all things that should be punished in a way other than territoriality. Honestly, I am deeply convinced that even in the government's programming statement it was only because it was the simplest thesis that looked noble: we will solve the question of territoriality. By now, Minister Válková and then a prominently existing minister, when they began to take a real picture of what problems are in executions, they soon understood that territoriality is just an internal duel of individual executors about who will have the amount of the package on the market and that it does not bring any positive solutions for particularly debtors. Especially for debtors, it doesn't bring anything at all. You'll just be unlucky if you live in a county where he's capable or incompetent, evil or just, you have no chance. On the contrary, it brings complications for creditors, because, in particular, central creditors would suddenly have to have 160, instead of eight, ten, fifteen contracted executors with whom they communicate so that they could actually cover the entire Republic. I think it is to say that this is an execution lobby, as my colleague Karel Fiedler said, whom I otherwise deeply appreciate, so the executive lobby lobbies precisely for territoriality. Its interest is and the resolution of the Executive Chamber is: promote territoriality. That's the interest of most executors who want to split the case package differently. That's the second thesis. Well, I'm very careful. I'm not voting for it. And I even refuse to commit to the fact that by the next term, where I believe that we will be in a much stronger lineup and that we will be the ones who build the government and create government programs and declarations, so I will not commit myself there, either, that territoriality is the solution. Yes, there are things that are supposed to be dealt with. It is precisely the question of multiple executions from individual houses, where they would need to be merged, even for employers and others, because it is then terribly unclear. But it's not a matter of territoriality that saves debtors. [[13.20 hours]] At the same time, let's really admit that debtors, there is always some mistake at the beginning, whether conscious or unconscious, whether related to being indebted irresponsibly, or that somewhere they just forgot to pay a fine, they live on other addresses, they don't give a damn about receiving mail, but almost never ever those really cases where someone got sick and stopped being able to pay, they probably are, but almost never, and even there, of course, can be dealt with much sooner and ask for different payment schedules and distributions and helping family and helping friends and others. And often things like that come together. It's always about the fact that there's a debt somewhere at first that I don't give a damn, which, I feel like it's gonna turn out somehow, and then I'm so surprised I'm not able to pay it back in any situation. And here I think that really - it was said here quite often by colleague Blažek, who points out that the state and its citizens, respectively. citizens' demands are not only rights, but also obligations. And if I'm in debt, it's my duty to pay the debt, and not to go around the world and tell the newspapers about how some evil executor wants to bail me out because I'm the poor guy who's in debt. I always had to get in debt, there always has to be a court decision. It's not the executor's decision. There must be an enforceable court decision that said, "Yes, dear sir or mistress, you owe and you have to pay." And only then can some execution take place. And even today, of course, we have a pre-xercise challenge: Pay up, or she'll start running. There's a lot of processes there. By pointing out that we are almost at the end of today's negotiations, that I should not extend my appearance above all limits, I agree. Let us know that my colleague Ondráček's proposal deserves support, although it did not bring much, I think that it offsets the level of justice between the elderly and minors, against whom the maintenance obligation is not fulfilled, and that the proposal of colleague Marek Černoch does not deserve our support with all due respect for Marek Černoch through the President, and I think he does not deserve it even in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u51	I thank Mr Marek Benda, we still have three factual points. First is Karel Fiedler, second is Zbyněk Stanjura, third is Štěpán Stupčuk. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u52	I agree with Marek Benda on two things, not one thing. I am sure that I agree with Marek Benda through the President that the enforcement problems are to be dealt with by the execution order. Colleagues, for God's sake, what's on our board? Isn't there an execution order written in there? And as one of the previous speakers rightly said, the government has had two years since the House Press 499 was here, and I don't know how long there's been two hundred and thirty-two. Three years. The translator says three years. So the government had three years to deal with it. What I agree with my colleague, Marek Benda, is that it would solve the merger by execution. Definitely, it's not territoriality, it's a merger of executions. What I don't agree with Marek Benda about is that territoriality doesn't bring anything to the debtor. For God's sake, if the executor's office is in Moravia, I don't want to say the Přerov directly, but I have already said it, and the mandatory one is from the Ústí Region, and I have already told you, colleagues, that the most part of the executions are costing, not even the amount due, not the reward of the executor, but the costs charged, so through the President, Mr Benda, that is where I am going. That's the biggest problem, that's where the biggest costs come in. Don't you know about the executions when the debt was $20,000, it grew to 400 and sold out a house or an apartment unit? I'm not saying it would totally solve the territory, but it's one of the sources. I agree that debts are to be paid, that they are of a different nature. And again, I'm aiming at the unnecessary costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u53	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, with a factual remark, will be prepared by colleague Stupčuk, then Blažek and Benda. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u54	Just a little fix. There's an election in three months, the government hasn't had three years, the government's had almost four years. Nothing. Second, it's more technical. Speaking of someone, we don't have to go through just when we're talking. It's just that things have gotten awfully big around here, when I say, "I don't agree with Mr. Benda through... I therefore disagree with Mr Fiedler myself, without the President, with his opinion, but if I want to address Mr Fiedler, I will address him through the President. But I want to mention one aspect that Marek Benda was talking about - I'll say it without medium - and these are companies. And there's little talk about that, about the administrative costs for the payroll department, the personnel department, the smaller the company, the bigger the problem. So if we want to deal with a fair distribution of costs, that's the cost that someone else is carrying. And compensation is zero. And that's what we should be talking about. And Minister Pelikán has failed in that, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u55	Thank you. Now, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk, with a point of fact, will prepare his colleague Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u56	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the debate and I must say that my colleague Benda's argument was quite convincing, and I am quite inclined to it. It's no coincidence that the executors voted for territoriality. She's mostly in favor of the executors. I would also like to do business or be active in an area where I would be legally entitled to the idea of an agenda without having to have any, say, competitive advantage. The current situation that exists is that there are different levels of executives, in many cases it is due precisely to the fact that some bailouts are able to enforce their claims more effectively, and that is why they have a bigger idea. Just to think about the possibility of choosing a creditor to enforce his claim by law, we would rule out the principle of territoriality. The effect of restricting the right of choice on the part of the creditor against the alleged effect, i.e. reducing the "purposely spent costs" due to territoriality, is, I think, unconvincing and is not sufficient to compensate for the limitation of the right of the creditor to choose his executor. Moreover, by law, we force creditors not to enforce their claim themselves, but through an executor. So even I can't relate to this proposal. I'm not going to talk about it any longer, because my colleague Benda was very, very persuasive and he explained it eruditely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u57	Thank you, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. Mr Pavel Blažek, Mr Marek Benda, then Mr Karel Fiedler, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u58	Thank you for the floor. We've been talking about this law for, like, two hours, talking about executions, getting emotional over what's called. executions of multiples, etc., which is a problem, and perhaps during our debate, the one wearing twenty executions has managed to close another loan for ten thousand. What do I mean? We're talking about the end of the process after everything and maybe even a few years is tried, examined by the judicial authorities, and we're not going to solve the whole thing. I already talked about it. From the start, it's a problem of ethical, legal, maybe social dimensions today, that's true, but we can't solve it with the executions. And when my colleague Benda says that the proposal doesn't bring much, the one today, I take it as symbolism. The world is changing. Karel Marx would be surprised, but the only thing that's been done for creditors in four years is this proposal proposed by the Communist. Well, the world changes, there's nothing to be done. The government didn't lift a finger.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u59	I thank Mr Pavel Blažek. Now, Mr Marek Benda and then Mr Karel Fiedler, also with factual remarks. Please. Before I give you my word, I will ask the House for peace. Thank you. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u60	I'll be very brief, but I just wanted to respond to my colleague Fiedler. The costs of the executor's proceedings have been reduced for years, some of them in the flat-rate costs, all subject to the Ministry of Justice. Transport costs, which were a problem - yes, but were a problem between 2002 and 2006 or 2007. I can't show myself as an executor riding from Přerov to Ústí today. I have to do something else. So let's not really say things... I'm very careful about this. A lot of things that are used here are just stories that were 15 years ago, but that no longer apply today, and that over time have been eliminated by other changes in the order of execution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u61	Thank you, Mr Marek Benda. Before I give the floor to Mr Karel Fiedler, I will read the apology of Mrs Pavla Golasowská, who apologizes from 13.30 to the end of the day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u62	For a few times, is it right for the exercise of judicial authority to be a subject of business? Do you colleagues really think this is a business, a power of justice? That it's gonna be a business of a level enough to sponsor a football squad? Is that right? To create enormous profits somewhere at a really socially very low level often? I don't think it's right. Definitely not. Surely the exercise of judicial authority is not to be subject to enormous profits such that it allows sponsorship, huge sponsorship. I don't want to go into the debates that we had on the Constitutional Committee and wasted the atmosphere. Now, one thing. Isn't the mandatory one discriminated against by the fact that he can't choose the arbitrator? That only the right to do so has the right? The creditor? Isn't that discrimination? We had an anti-discrimination law here yesterday that involved other things, not this one. But I know there's already been a thought about whether this happens to be contrary to the constitutional right to have the same approach. Exercise of the judicial power - here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u63	Thank you. Mr Marek Černoch and Mr Pavel Blažek again. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u64	Thank you for the floor. I'd just like to comment on what was said here. I'm certainly not gonna stand up for those who take loans and mow their debts like Baťa's gymnastics, not paying them, not even those who don't pick up their mail saying they don't care, and they figure that the hand of justice in quotes just won't reach them. But I want to stand up for people who just get into that spiral and sometimes, really, by their guilt. But they want to get out of it again. And unfortunately, because of the system that's set up today, and that's what the costs are, so they don't have the chance to get out of it. That's all. And one comment. I think that not only this proposal by the KSČM is the only step that will be taken in executions. I would like to thank the President of the Constitutional Committee, Mr Tejc, for the way in which this committee worked. Even the colleagues who were there, my colleague Blažek, my colleague Marek Benda, for the whole job, because I really think that it has been done most in the course of the executions over the last few years in this election period. And this step, which we wanted to take at the end of the parliamentary term, should have simply given the system. There was no other intention. It wasn't the executive lobby. At least I can say for myself that there was definitely no bailiff at my place and he wasn't lobbying for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u65	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. And the last one with a point of fact at this point is Mr. Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u66	To a colleague of yours, Černoch. I didn't say it was all that was done. For the benefit of the creditors - history is changing - they did, the proposal is just right from the communists. Otherwise, everything for the debtors. The reason is simple. There's more of them, so there's a vote hunt, isn't there? We're not gonna tell each other that it's different. And only to Mr Fiedler. I don't know if it's business or not. But that's not the question of the executors. The State was clearly unable to recover the claims properly and on time. That is why, at that time, it was transferred to a part of the private sector. And if we do it so that the private sector will either do it for free or almost free, then it won't do it at all and we'll go back to those nice terms like initial insolvency, secondary, triple-, quadruple- etc. They're needed, but for free! We're not doing our job, neither are we, and neither are the executors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u67	Thank you, Mr Pavel Blažek. And that was the last one entered into the debate. So I will ask if anyone wants to join the debate. This is not the case, I am ending the debate. We were so lucky. There. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. There's an interest in final words. Mr. Ondráček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to this House Press No. 238 dealt with in its origin the suspension of driving licences for parents under 26 years of age who do not fulfil their maintenance obligations on their children. That was the origin. The fact that an hour's discussion has now been divorced is very interesting and I am glad that you have discussed this matter. But I would like to say that the original, albeit colleagues from the ODS, but also from the Dawn movement, say that this is a purely communist proposal, so yes, the idea is communist. She came from our workshop. But we were clearly aware of how ideologically you could get it off the table here. That is why we have consulted other MEPs from the ČSSD, the ANO movement, who are also co-chairors of this law. And over the course of time, this has happened over the past three years, that one of the co-president, one of the co-president, is also a member of the TOP 09 movement... Top side, sorry. So this proposal isn't really ours, even if it came from us. And we were discussing the matter precisely so that there would be no ideological sweeping just because we were the submitters. I am glad that, in the three years that it has been here, you have now been able to say in the discussions that the substantive idea of this proposal is correct and that, in majority terms, at least as you have expressed yourself, this original proposal, that is to say, you will support the suspension of driving licences for parents of older children who are preparing for their future careers by continuing studies. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u69	Thank you, counselors. I ask the rapporteur whether he wants a final word or a straight line to the amendments. Straight to the amendments. There. In that case, I ask him to introduce us to the voting procedure, to present individual amendments and to give an opinion on them before the vote. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u70	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, dear fellow Members, the voting procedure and its proposal are quite simple. Since there have been no legislative technical amendments in the debate, unless I am mistaken, we will first vote on the proposals. And together with one vote, which is the proposals of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Then on to proposal B, which is the proposal of a fellow Member, Mr Marek Černoch, to introduce the so-called. executor territory. Finally, we will vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u71	Thank you. I'll have the procedure approved by the number 298 vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 298 from the present 126 for 106, against no one. The procedure has been approved. So can we start with proposal . pan?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u72	Thank you for the floor. We will vote on proposal A together with one vote. I add that this is a proposal from the Constitutional Legal Committee, which makes the original proposal legislatively more precise and, of course, makes it effective, because, as has been done, the proposal was tabled more than three years ago. The guarantee committee recommends.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u73	Mr. Problector's representative. [[Agreed.]] Well, thank you. I've started voting number 299 and I'm asking who he is. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 299 from the present 126 for 108, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can move on to the second draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u74	We will now vote on the proposal B by Mr Marek Černoch, the so-called introduction discussed. executor territory. The guarantee committee does not recommend it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u75	Counselor of the plaintiffs? [[Neutral position.]] I've started voting number 300, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 300 from 126 for 21 Members present, against 52. The motion was not accepted. This has exhausted the amendments. Yes, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u76	By doing so, we have exhausted all the amendments, exactly so, and we can vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u77	Thank you. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members Zdeněk Ondráček, Hana Aulická-Jírovcová, Markéta Wernerová, Kristýna Zelienková and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 120/2001 Coll., on judicial execution and enforcement activities, as amended, according to the Chamber of Press 238, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies.' [[Conditions of execution]] I've started voting number 301 and I'm asking who's in favour. Excuse me, I'm sorry. I'll check you out. I declare the vote 301 misguided. I checked you all out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards and we'll decide in the 302 vote that I just started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote number 302 from the present 110 for 103, against no one. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I thank the representatives of the appellants, thank the rapporteur, and end with item 99. The President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek reports with priority rights. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u78	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry to use priority rights on one point between points, but there is one urgent matter. As you know, yesterday, a prominent Chinese dissident, Nobelův laureate Liou Siao- died. He died because he had been imprisoned for many, many years, and especially because the Communist regime did not allow him to receive appropriate treatment abroad, even though several countries like Germany and the United States of America requested it. On Friday, a delegation from the Chamber of Deputies is scheduled to travel to visit China. I believe that, in this situation, it is not possible for the Chamber of Deputies to express its opinion on whether they think they agree or not to oppose such a fundamental suppression of human rights, which leads to the loss of freedom and to the loss of life. I therefore turn, as Chairman of the TOP 09, to the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies with an urgent request to cancel this trip as a symbolic act of protest against how a criminal communist regime killed an important intellectual and writer. If the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies does not do so, I appeal to all the factions' chairmen, so that their delegates do not go on this journey. If only the Communists go there, it will also be a symbol. But I believe that no democratic party's representative should travel there in this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-14-ps2013-059-08-010-099.u79	That was the opinion of Mr. Chairman TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. We'll continue with the third reading, point number 100. It's about
