ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u1	40. Government bill amending Act No. 553/1991 Coll., on Municipal Police, as amended, and other related laws / House printing 681/ - first reading The Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec will also make this proposal under the authority of the Government. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to present to you a proposal for first reading, namely a proposal aimed at amending the law on municipal police. The submitted government proposal of the amendment fully maintains the existing proven and functioning model of the operation of municipal police and municipal police officers. The proposed proposal does not extend the authority of the municipality from a competent point of view. The amendment brings a tightening of qualifications for the performance of the officer's profession. Specifically, it is integrity and reliability. At the same time, however, the amendment meets the requirements of the municipalities and reduces the officer's minimum age to 18 years. But within 21 years, such an officer will serve without a service weapon. The amendment regulates the way public contracts are concluded between municipalities. The municipalities will newly be able to provide officers on the basis of a public contract not only in the event of a crisis, but also in the case of certain sporting or social events of a greater extent. In view of the controversial reactions raised by the bill on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, I am prepared to cooperate on the preparation of the amendment, which will reduce the scope of the amendment to three basic points: First, a reduction in the officer's age to 18 years, with no change in the arms law, and until the completion of 21 years such an officer would have worked without a service weapon, as I said in previous sentences. Secondly, a change in the frequency of proficiency tests from three years to five years, followed by regular training of officers in training facilities with the accreditation of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. And third, limiting the ability of officers to measure speed only in the territory of their community, thus excluding the possibility of concluding a public contract for the purpose of measuring officers in a community other than their own. [[15.30 hours]] If there is no will in the Chamber of Deputies to follow this path, i.e. this compromise proposal, I am eventually prepared to withdraw this proposal from the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention, but I very much hope that we will be able to anchor these three points that I have presented here in this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u3	I now ask for a brief introduction of Mr Bronislav Schwarz's law, which is the rapporteur of this bill. And before I give him my word, today, from 5 pm to the end of the day, Mr Stanislav Berkovec is apologizing for his work. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I am glad that the Minister finally got his turn with the Municipal Police Act, and I am not going to describe things any further, I will only record your performances and any possible reactions I have seen from my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his brief and clear introduction. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Daniel Korte first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, my unforgettable friend Ivan Medek has instilled in me the principle that a politician should speak briefly and clearly. And I'm going to embezzle that principle today, speak more widely than I usually do, and I'm going to speak in general as well. I consider it important to clarify my ideas, which will lead me to a proposal that I will make in conclusion. Since I have lived an even greater part of my life in non-freedom, I am more sensitive to its limitations. So the first consideration, we can say philosophically, concerns, otherwise, freedom. There are different concepts of freedom. One concept of freedom is negative. They see freedom primarily as a source of uncertainty that creates multiplicity, and many dangers of abuse stem from this endless set of multiples. The result is chaos, confusion, disorganized and unorganized. I think that this characterizes Karamazov very well, not our colleague, but Míťa Karamazov from dostojevský novel, when he says: Wide, too wide is a man, I would narrow it down. I think it is pointless to say that such a concept of freedom leads to authoritarian and totalitarian regimes and that this is a direct road to the gulag. On the other hand, the concept of another, a concept that sees freedom as a gift, does not perceive it negative, negative or private, which means that I don't have to do something, freedom from something, but perceives it positively as freedom to something for which freedom opens up space for me, something that I can do. Of course, there is the possibility of abuse that they are undoubtedly taking place in this concept, but I still consider freedom to be of greater value than the possibility of abuse, because, at the same time, a sense of responsibility, a sense of duty, is also walking hand in hand with freedom. If I said freedom is a gift, perhaps rather than a gift it is one of the greatest achievements of our Euro-Atlantic civilization based on Judaism and Christianity, on the culture of Jewish, Greek and Roman. And every gift needs to be cared for, freedom must be fought over and over again, protected, defended and, if possible, expanded. I think from what I'm saying, it's obvious that I'm one of the adherents of this concept of freedom. Now I'm going to make a little digression. Fear is growing in society today in connection with terrorist attacks and other security threats. At the same time, various measures are taken to strengthen security, which logically involve restrictions on freedom, its reduction. It's a drop at a time, one step at a time. Freedom doesn't go away right away. This government decided to increase the number of police officers by 10 percent. Are we becoming that police state? Well, I don't think so. Here you go. We have approved, in the House, a law on the protection of national borders, which will allow the government, even the Minister of the Interior, to close the borders without Parliament's consent. Does that mean I won't be able to travel? Well, I guess not yet. It's called "temporary" and only that word has a previously born negative connotation for us. Everyone's cameras are checking us every step of the way. Orwell would be surprised. Freedom, guaranteed, guaranteed freedom of inviolability of dwellings is merely an illusion. A police officer may enter your house without the court's consent to seize a legally held firearm, an official may enter your home without the court's consent and stare at your stove with what you're drowning. The terrorists want to deprive us of our freedom, they don't understand its concept, they want to destroy it. And we, out of fear of terrorists, are taking measures by which we voluntarily give up our freedoms, thereby de facto implementing their objectives. Now please note number two, general, let's say Philological. Lawmakers, when they adopted the law on municipal police in 1991, probably had no idea what nonsense they had approved and what the consequences would be. The problem lies in the unfortunate concept of "general police." The term is meaningless, both from the point of view of Philology and from the point of view of internal logic. The word police is derived from the Greek word polis, meaning the village, in the wider sense of the city, but it means the city as a community. The city as a building is Greek astes. So it is in all derivatives. Políteó - I am a citizen, a polítés - a citizen, a políteómai, another shape of the same verb, means I act as a citizen, or I care about the community. None of us would probably say that today, because we are doing politics, and even in the word politics is included in the Polis. So the municipal police are about the same nonsense as the people's democracy at the time. Translated into Czech: People's Government or People's Government. How to translate the municipal police, I really don't know. The internal illogical term is because the law is called "the municipal police," but in the text there is talk of municipal and municipal guards everywhere. So it would be right for the law to be called "the municipal guard," because the expression of the police is unhappy and misleading in this case. This is where the unfortunate consequences lie, as I mean the constant trend of comparing the police of the municipal with the police of the Czech Republic, bringing it closer to the police of the Czech Republic. It's a trend that lasts 25 years. And because I'm a man of evil and suspicion, no one can tell me that at the end of it, at the end of these efforts, there is a service. [[15.40 hours]] The third general note is what is actually the task of our Members. Wave hands, accept proposals here? No. Parliament's basic role is to control executive power. This also means controlling the repressive forces of power and thereby protecting the rights and freedoms of citizens. Power is a hydra that tends to expand constantly. And we're here to keep cutting off that sleigh of her growing heads -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u7	I am very sorry, Mr Member, but Members, particularly on the left, are clearly not paying attention to your speech. I'll ask my colleagues to transfer their calls to the lobby.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u8	It doesn't bother me that much. All they're gonna lose is a wisdom that could be useful in another life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u9	It bothers me very much, Mr. Ambassador. I'm paid for it. Please continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u10	Thank you. It is always about two sides of the same coin. On the other hand, the repressive elements call for more and more strengthening of their powers to act effectively against lawbreakers, and Parliament must weigh these demands carefully, because such an increase always brings restrictions on freedoms and rights not only for a minority of those intruders, but also for most of all the other citizens who are regular. At the same time, a very often increase in these powers does not lead to an increase in security, but, on the contrary, the threat to citizens' rights and freedoms in this way may be higher and worse than any possible threat from any ordinary intruder. From the point of view of these considerations, therefore, I say that there should not be a flat-rate increase in the powers of repressive forces, unless an extraordinary situation requires this, such as a sharp increase in crime. And we're not in that situation, please. Criminal activity has had a downward trend for at least two years. But our number of wiretaps is rising. For example, in 2014 compared to the previous year by 13 %. So much for a third general comment. And now it's basically the last comment on the municipal police. I'd rather call it the municipal guards. First of all, we need to figure out what we want from the municipal police. That's question number one. Question number two is: is this file supposed to continue to approach the state police with its powers? And three. Is she even supposed to subpoena her activities? I personally answer the last two questions negatively. The task of the municipal police is to help maintain order in the village, ensure organizer security in public events and so on and help citizens solve practical problems or some local conflicts. She should in no way subpoena the state police, fight the perpetrators of criminal crimes, arrest, investigate, perform, and so on. And I still don't think she should subpoena the traffic police. Her main task should remain in the area of preventive. But by "prevention," I don't think she should go to school and hold meetings. Municipal or municipal police should simply be permanently and constantly present in the streets, especially in places where there is a threat of disturbance of order, based on knowledge of local circumstances. And again, by being in the streets, I don't think it should be enough to go down that street in the Hamres twice a day. Officers should just step on the sidewalk. Walking the streets with the knowledge of the people who live there. To make such an officer notice that there's a glow on the second floor in one of the apartments the next day. Who lives there? aha, old Mrs. Nováková. And he went to see it. That is why I believe that it is absolutely not appropriate to raise the quite increased powers and authority of the municipal police by the previous amendments. On the contrary, they should retreat. Officers should get out of the monitors' chairs, come out of the counters and into the streets. They should not consider the main task of booting, pulling cars and collecting fines, even if they are carrying out the municipal or municipal cash register. On the other hand, where serious violations of citizens' freedoms are necessary, such as entering private premises or confiscating weapons, this activity should always be left to the police of the Czech Republic and intervened only if absolutely necessary in order to avert the imminent risk of an attack on life, health and property, as is the case in the case of a necessary defence. I will now make digression number two and share with you my extraordinary experience of my last contact with the Municipal Police in Prague. I was garaged on a busy street in Prague 6, or from the garage across the pavement I drove into the road. There's a garage entrance sign on the garage. There are yellow thugs on the road, even though somebody stopped there from time to time. In that case, I went around the neighborhood businesses, barbershops, hairdressers, restaurants, bakeries. Well, if no one applied to the car, I called the city police. They arrived fast - in 20 minutes. They got out of the car. They said hello - they didn't say hello. They looked important, they went around the car, they took pictures, and then they tucked in the paper wiper and went to get in the car. I say, gentlemen, where are you going? One says: This will be dealt with in administrative proceedings. I tell him, I don't give a damn how it's gonna work out. I'm the one who called you in to take the car away. 'Cause I need to get out of here. And one of them says, well, we don't have a tow truck here, so we'd have to call her all the way from Prosek. And second, we'll have a tow truck when there's a parking area. I said, "Well, that's great. When someone pulls up over at the newsstand and runs for cigarettes, you're gonna sprint around the corner and you're gonna start the tow. He'll use you for that. So do what you're gonna do. Well, they pretended I wanted a lot of them. Strangely enough, for some mysterious reason, I got legit and got in my car and got on the phone. Then one screwed up the window, handed me his ID card in large terms and said, "He's on his way" and left without saying hello. Ladies and gentlemen, do you expect such services from the municipal police? Do you really want a municipal officer to be able to at any time and anybody to demand an explanation, to legitimize anyone and call on them to come somewhere, or, on the contrary, to ban anyone from entering? This can also mean a ban on entry into the village at all, i.e. a ban on residence. So that the city officer could give anyone any breath or rush him to blood at any time? Anyone to take anything away under a vague pretext that it can be assumed that the matter would be confiscated in a misdemeanor trial? Whenever you enter premises, public and private spaces not only during operating hours but also outside it, even using force, i.e. basically perform a house search or a tour of non-residential premises without the consent of the court, all under vague reasoning - you can reasonably assume that... and so on. Do you really want to give municipal officers, of which ten percent couldn't finish their graduation even after seven years, such clearances? I certainly don't. [[15.50 hours]] I consider the press to be irreparable, and I therefore propose rejecting it at first reading, and I call on the government to stop any further amendments to this standard, each one of which is even worse than the previous one, and it has been working on a brand-new standard of the municipal guard law in terms of intensity, as I have mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u11	I thank Mr Korte. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, Minister, fellow Members, as has been said by the Minister, the explanatory report on the amendment defines changes to improve the requirements of public order, security and crime prevention. A vast majority of citizens will agree to this aim. The basic problem, however, is the gradual increase in the authority of municipal police officers, if we realise that the original mission of officers was to check compliance with generally binding regulations and regulations. Although the petitioners claim that they do not strengthen the scope and powers of the municipal police to the level of the Police of the Czech Republic, this is the case in a number of provisions. On the other hand, I agree that, in a number of cases, an adjustment is necessary in order for certain offences, such as gambling or alcoholism, to be dealt with effectively. However, the cardinal question is where is the border between ensuring the security of citizens and protecting their personal freedoms. I also fear that there may be a gradual replacement of the Police of the Czech Republic, which, by the way, also permits a explanatory report within smaller municipalities with regard to the smoothness and safety of road traffic. Another problem is that if I am increasing my powers, then the control of the municipal police should also be increased. And if that is not the case, then there is a legitimate concern about the possible political abuse or the ordinary foul play of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, if I want to improve the work of the municipal police, I really cannot go down the path of reducing the officer's age, as proposed, from 21 to 18. I also see no reason why the duration of the certificate is extended from today's three to five years. The reason for this cannot be that this was the case before 1996. I understand the regular certification of professional competence, but municipal police officers should have regular training in the handling of weapons. From my point of view, a general officer should be a citizen's assistant, a model of London's officers. If the date of the request is removed and the call is introduced, then it is clear that disobeying the call is already being dealt with as an offence. The officer is newly entitled to request the submission of documents or other documents, may require photographs from the registration of the civil documents, information from the criminal record of the perpetrator. There is a more accurate formulation of the challenge procedure - the release of the weapon. A major problem may be the authorisation of entry into business premises even after the end of the selling or operating period, including the possibility to use force, as is the case with the Police of the Czech Republic. What strengthens my awareness that the municipal police are gradually to replace the state police in bagatile matters is to increase the authority to require an indicative examination by means of breath tests, saliva collection or sweat, or by carrying out a professional medical examination. In spite of all my reservations, I will not propose that the proposal be redesigned, but I assume that this law will be amended in the second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u13	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u14	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, Mr Minister, whenever any amendment to the City Police Act appears, it always raises up a debate like this. I confess that I am always worried about this, and I say it from my old practice actually a person - a deputy, a mayor who runs the city police, or the municipal police, as you like, for 18 years. I'll admit, after the opening speech here, I've gotten a little pissed off, if it's actually the same municipal police I've been running for 18 years. I confess that I am opposed to the amendment of this law, because each amendment has always brought, I would say, not a complete improvement in relationships. But we conservative politicians know that every change is always for the worse. And here I think we might as well be. However, I have to respond here to some things that I didn't like roughly. Because the idea that these gradual amendments should lead to the fact that the city police, the officers become service officers, means in the same guard as the Police of the Czech Republic, so I do not grossly share it. And I don't think it's shared by many mayors. That's what happened here in the opening, that's what's gonna happen. So I do not share this grossly, because the service creates the obligations of the person who actually creates the service, that is to say, other financial costs for the future, debts and that sort of thing. We don't want that here. I must say, then, that the city police - at least in our country - are doing the service very well. Without the city police today, I can't imagine how we'd ensure public order. There's always someone who says he ran into someone whose behavior he didn't like. The city police are an easy scapegoat. In the end, we've all been cursing at cops our whole lives. Everyone drove fast sometimes, everyone drove like they shouldn't. We've always run into a cop whose behavior we didn't really like. And sometimes we don't like it just because we don't want to confess to the offense. We don't want to admit that we're the guilty party, we always say it's the others' fault. So I certainly wouldn't go that way. You need to look at it with a cool mind. I noticed here that the Minister said he was willing to accept an amendment here, so I understood. I have to say, as far as speed measurements are concerned, I think, and it was here somewhere in the Czech Republic, and I've noticed that someone's making a profitable business out of it. I think that most of those contracts that are concluded with municipalities should certainly not be used merely to extort individual activities, that is, to measure activity. We have a number of public contracts, and neither of them is such a character, it is always a complex set of activities of the city police. And the mayors of the surrounding communities welcome it, because they would never make it to the municipal police. And the fact that they want it means that today we are more or less providing service from Rtyna in Podkrkonoší to Pec pod Sněžkou. That means that the interest in this is great, and I certainly haven't noticed complaints of the type I've heard here in more or less years. As for the parking, the transport organization, I can't imagine what that traffic would look like in the centers today. Please forgive Prague. Prague is a case for itself. I don't think it is possible to judge the activities of the city police according to Prague. She has many activities according to Prague can not be judged, there is a different situation. I don't remember our city police having a hammer-type passenger car, most of which are damage bombs, mostly Octavia combi in the mountains 4 x 4 to go. And I also can't imagine that a guard would only walk, even though of course we want them to, because the greatest prevention is when you see a uniform on the street. But there's no way they can flatter themselves that they should always do that. So, personally, if we don't discuss this amendment, if it comes back, if other things were to get there, I'd rather the amendment withdraws because I consider this amendment not entirely necessary at the moment. So what I'm saying is, let's not overreact. I don't mind more than that. Like demonization of city police measurements. I'll tell you how it is. City police - I would like peace, Mr President. They're mumbling to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u15	You're right, Mr. Ambassador. I ask my colleagues to allow the speaker to continue his speech and to transfer... Especially honourable members of the mayor, club presidents and the like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u16	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u17	No, not to apologize to the Prime Minister. The chairman was intruding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u18	Thank you, too. So the demonizing of the measurements. I don't know if you all know this, but the city police can't measure what they want. He just can't. I can't do that! She must have the approval of the Police of the Czech Republic in places where she can measure. It really isn't. And if anyone thinks that maybe our city police are measuring to make money, that's not it. It's just not an interesting business for the city police. She's not doing it for business, she's doing it for order and for the safety of the citizens. That's what it is. When you calculate the costs that are with it and the proceeds, there is no city police, except for exceptions, perhaps in Prague, which would earn money from its activities. It's not like that. The city police are costing a lot of money. I see no one really cares, but I'm not giving up. So let's not get illusions. I don't give a damn if the police are going to measure or not. I admit it's not the basic activity, but it's the demands of mayors of municipalities, school directors, places where there's a problem with the speed of accidents. I'm more concerned with other speed measurements, and these are stationary radars where you actually go through without knowing that you're being measured, and the result is that you get a subpoena coming home, and when you pay, nothing happens to you. No points are deleted, everything's fine. On the contrary, many of our undisciplined drivers delay the infringement proceedings, and when it was a year, 99 percent of the troublemakers were successful, today it's a little worse. But that's reality. Do you know what they call those stationary radars in the Giant Mountains when you're going to Pec? The Golden Gate to the Giant Mountains. And that's not what city police do, that's just what city authorities do in that place. That's right. The Court of Kings over Lab, eight cameras, eight places where you'll just pay. That's reality. I confess, we have one, but not on our territory, but for completely different reasons. We wanted something else there, but it's just reality. So this bothers me more than some portable city police radar that really measures in places where the Police of the Czech Republic will determine it. But it doesn't matter if he measures or doesn't. As far as the transport organization is concerned, if you go to our place in the mountains, in Pec, in Černá Hora, then if the city police aren't going to regulate Trutnovská traffic and manage traffic, you just won't get there. When the days are full on the mountains, you just don't get there, you don't park. You just can't do it without them. So what I'm saying is that this isn't just a negative opinion about the city police, it's very cheap to say, it's very cheap, no one wants to put the city police on the level of the Police of the Czech Republic. That never occurred to me, and I don't think even the fellow mayor, practically anyone. But please, really, the amendment, or new laws, very carefully, because changes are always subject to such populism in this case. I get it. If we cancel the measurements here, it's popular. He'll appreciate it. There's an election, we'll cancel it. But if it's a good thing or a bad thing in the future, I'm not quite sure if we're gonna approve it. So I would recommend that we really stick to what the Minister said. If there's more change, I beg you to pull it off, because some pasquil that comes back down to us, where we limit our powers, and we're gonna do it so that the city police are gonna be a joke to people, so I really don't think anybody wants it. And let's not confuse the city police with the Metropolitan Police in America. It just isn't, and it's never gonna be like that. City police should always be a citizen's service. And the first person to answer for it is the mayor of the particular community. He gets the complaints, he's got to deal with it, not Parliament here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u19	Good afternoon, honourable Members. I thank Mr Adamc for his speech, and before we continue the debate - Mr Jiří Koubek's point of fact is now, but before that, I would like to make an apology. I hope that I will not repeat one, and this is an apology from Mr Petr Kudela and Mrs Hana Aulickáý Jírovcová, until the end of the day. A colleague of Kudela's from 16 to 17 o'clock. Now, Mr Jiří Koubek, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. To his predecessor, as it is in Prague. So according to my information, even in Prague, the city police aren't making any money on it, it's just an introduction. Over 90 percent of the fines granted are also based on those stationary measurements, not that the city police are measuring. It comes out very sporadically, even I would say much less measure than the mayors of the various city districts would like, and so do I. precisely because it must be consecrated by the Police of the Czech Republic. This means that neither she nor Prague in this regard is an exception to the rest of the Republic, nor in Prague the city police are making money on fines, on the fact that they stand somewhere and want to make money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u21	I thank my colleague Koubek for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I have two more factual points, my colleague Ondráček will be patient. Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Adamec, with factual remarks. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through you - exactly, fellow Mayor Koubka. This proposal is good because it extends the opportunity for young people to enter, not the service, but the employment relationship with the city police, because the age of 21, which is in the current regulation, is a restriction. And here we know what's going on between the security forces, the city police representatives, and they're actually having a handicap at the start of the launch because all the capable men and women, the able-bodied men and women, before that, they'll be able to take advantage of either the security forces or the armed forces. So I would argue for it - and I'm a little unpleasantly surprised that as a member of the Security Committee, I'm learning about some complex amendment up here that simply the plaintiffs, for example, after representatives of one club, we don't all have to be there as members of the Security Committee, they didn't sit us at the table and say, "Look, there's a proposal here that's a year and a half, and we don't think it's good that we want it to be different, we want to make these three fundamental changes that will make this situation better. What do you say? And I say to you that I would say: Yes, if these changes really limit themselves to what the Minister has said here, I personally do not have a problem with it, but only I, colleagues from the government coalition, really regret that you are unable to communicate with us so that we do not have this information in advance, so that there is no debate that someone will prepare a speech in which logically and in order some provisions that will no longer be in this comprehensive amendment. But my colleague Korte can't know that, just like I can't know if you're telling us this here or reading it from the media. So consider it my request to you to communicate these things where you have them on the committees, and if you want this place to go smoothly, then before it even gets to the first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u23	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, also with a factual remark, and then we will return to the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u24	Yes, thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, I apologize to Prague, because of course my colleague Koubek corrected me correctly. But there was one more thing I wanted to say about what Mrs Černochová just said. Graduation, ungraduate officers aren't in uniform anymore, they just had to leave. All officers must be graduating today. And now that we're talking about it, when we're recruiting new officers, I can say that getting an officer today is a big problem - and especially today - with graduation, because there's a lot of alternatives for young people, and there's really a lot of people going to that city police force today who either have it in the family, or they're guys who are a little short of war, or they have some relation to guns, to order, to public service. But it's really a problem. So I just wanted to explain that without graduation today, not a single shot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u25	Thank you. Another factual point by Mr Michal Kučera, a colleague of Mr Ondráček, will be waiting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u26	Thank you for the floor. More or less, my colleague Adamec took a factual remark from my mouth, because I consider it a major problem, the fact that today city police officers must be graduating. It's quite limited, and I think there are activities that can be done without graduation. Specifically, I'm talking about our town. So we have a huge problem finding people who would meet these qualifications. Of course, it can be viewed in different ways. It is a fact that this qualification requirement already applies, i.e. We no longer have any cops or officers with no graduation, of course they can be transferred as civilian employees, but I think that the solution, that the officers should not have, or may not have, for some of the activities they provide, graduation is the right procedure. [[16.10 hours]] If we look again at the fact that, of course, urban police officers are leaving us for the Police of the Czech Republic, from state police to the army, they are offered better conditions by the fact that there are, for example, debts, etc., I don't want to get involved in this. I just wanted to point out that graduation as a matter of fact is quite limited.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u27	Thank you. And now, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, and then with priority rights, the Minister of the Interior. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, many have been said in the discussion of this point, but not everything is quite as it really is. Of course, we can discuss whether we need municipal and municipal police and whether these activities, which are increasingly close to the activities of the Police of the Czech Republic, should be carried out by officers or whether only the Police of the Czech Republic should provide security as such in the Czech Republic. If we switched to the model more than 20 years ago that next to the Police of the Czech Republic we will also have municipal and municipal police, it is a political decision that was then, and it is now up to us to say what we require of the officers of the city police. Of course, it is up to us legislators to create some balance between the powers and the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms. Here I can fully agree with Mr Kort. But if someone is doing the work of a city police officer, it is quite one for many citizens and they cannot distinguish who they were communicating with. Whether it was an officer or whether it was a police officer of the Police of the Czech Republic. To them, he was just a cop. In a hanky way. If it was mentioned here that crime has a downward trend, I would say that a statistically downward trend has only a registered crime. Then the criminal activity, which is not registered by the Police of the Czech Republic, and also in the material of the Ministry of the Interior and the Police of the Czech Republic, which was called the Concept of Police Development by 2020, was stated on page 12 that the statistical decline in crime may also mean that many people, as police officers are being investigated today, simply resigned and so-called. he simply does not report malpractice. So let's not be flattered by the fact that statistics say that crime in total numbers is falling. Yes, it's going down statistically, but in total, I'm going to say that it stays the same, because that's just the reality, and so I've registered it in over 23 years of police service. I would like - and here I will agree with Mr Kort - if the city police did not replace the work of the Police of the Czech Republic. I don't think the Police of the Czech Republic should even replace the job. However, she should be a partner of police officers, and it is the police, and it does not matter now whether we call her police or as Mr Korte says he would be for a change of name, let us stay with the name of the municipal police, to be seen. And the officers of the municipal and urban police are the ones who are seen most often in the streets. It is also because we are here for police and police officers of the Czech Republic, or I will say you who have been here for more than one term have created such incredible bureaucratic regulations, and the European Union is also guilty, because any bullshit, and let me use this term, we are obliged to take over from them. And today the lesson of the damaged in any matter already has seven pages of text. Something incredibly bureaucratic. That is why we police officers of the Police of the Czech Republic have, in essence, been driven by our activities only to those offices, and the police on the street only today are basically just police or police officers on the streets of the city. It was mentioned here - and once, when it arrived here, the media spoke about the fact that Mr Bronislav Schwarz wanted to remove the possibility of measuring speed for city police officers. I was talking to a colleague who went through both the state police and the city police, and he told me it wasn't true. That it was only the journalists who pulled it out of the conversation he did with them. And maybe a colleague will say so himself. It was mentioned here by my mayor of the village, or the town of Trutnov, a fellow Member of Adamec, how the Municipal Police in Trutnov works. And I can say that the City Police in Trutnov is a full-fledged partner of the Police of the Czech Republic in Trutnov and cooperation between these two forces is for the benefit of all citizens of our city. And not only the citizens of our city, because the public contracts that the Municipal Police have concluded in Trutnov, and Mr. Adamec mentioned it, from Rtyna in Podkrkonoší to Pec pod Sněžkou, but also towards the west, Hostinné - Hostinné we have banished, Hostinné no longer - so the work of the officers of the city police is there to see them. And none of the policemen of the Czech Republic can imagine that, if necessary, the officers would not be the first to arrive, or vice versa, that the officers would not be in the first place before the Police of the Czech Republic. Sometimes communication is a problem, but it's not about files, it's about people. And if that, and I know that it doesn't work in part here in Prague, maybe even in other cities, then believe it's just about people, because if it can work in a sub-mountain district city, it can work in any other city and it depends on people whether they want to or don't want to. Speed measurement. If, and here, we were talking about this, we wanted to take this authority away from the officers of the city police, it's absolute nonsense. Because in my district, Trutnov County, we have four, respectively. now a newly created, five city police. Of which, two city police have radar and measure, radar portable. Then we have nine stationary radars that record the passage and then call you in to deal with the offence. Traffic police in the supervision of road traffic in the former district of Trutnov, the territorial department, today has five, in the words of five former transport police inspectors, i.e. Police officers overseeing traffic. Police of the Czech Republic have one portable radar and one radar built into the car. If we can get them to the radar we'd take off the city police, any police officer could have their own radar. I just don't know how it would work, so it would be in storage somewhere. How would she calm down, virtually. On the contrary, it has aggravated the safety situation and discipline of drivers, we know very well. It was also mentioned that a city police officer can measure the speed of travel only in places, but also in times that have been agreed by the transport police of a given territorial department. That means no one and no city police can decide to take their radar and go anywhere to stand, as you say, somewhere behind the beech and there to measure. It's always a place that's agreed by the traffic police. These are places that are well-ordained precisely for frequent violations of road traffic rules, for a high incidence of traffic accidents or other road traffic offences. [[16.20 hours]] And what about the fines? A fellow Member named Adamec said it was not a business for the city police. If a fine is imposed by a police officer of the Czech Republic for measuring you and they arrive on the spot, you will pay the so-called block fine on the spot and the money goes into the budget of the Czech Republic. If an officer of the city police stops you like this, this money goes into the community's budget, where the officer is from. Stationary radars as such, Mr. Adamec mentioned - he does not deal with offences on site and process data and send to administrative management. They go to administrative management with extended scope, where the radar is, and then they become the income of such a municipality. If such stationary radar is taken over by the Police of the Czech Republic, nothing will change, the money will not go into the state budget of the Czech Republic, the data will be evaluated as it is being evaluated now, but it will not be evaluated by an officer of the city police, but by a police officer of the Czech Republic and the income will be to the municipality that will discuss it in administrative proceedings. So the state will have to apply, and we will not discuss how the recruitment to the police is going to work, we may talk about it tomorrow, it will have to hire other people who will be able to evaluate, process and process data from stationary radars to the administrative decision of the municipalities with extended scope. So basically nothing's gonna change, the municipalities are still gonna take money from stationary radars. If we decide to shut down these radars, of course it's an option. We can imagine how security works in places like this, and let's just say statistical data. Where the radars were installed, transit radars have decreased the number of people who violate the speed of driving in the village or in the selected section, and the number of traffic accidents or other road traffic events has decreased there as well. It's not gonna bring anything. The Minister spoke of possible three amendments: Reduction of the age limit, when a citizen of the Czech Republic could become an officer of the city police, from 21 to 18 years old today. A Czech police officer can be a citizen over 18 years of age with a degree, physically and mentally resistant, satisfying the conditions. There are the same conditions with the officer today, which means graduation, physical and mental resistance, but age 21. If we can find out that there is a great resemblance to the work of the police and the police officer of the municipal police, we can agree to such a proposal. I just can't imagine such a citizen, such an officer should walk for two years and perform his duties as an officer of the city police, when a citizen, once again I say, doesn't know if he's a police officer or an officer without a gun. In that case, Minister, I would be in favour of amending the Firearms Act and making an exception for an officer of the city police, who is an employee of the community and is an officer of the city police, to have an arms license for the performance of his work from the 18th year of age, not until the 21st year, as the current arms and ammunition law says. Professional qualifications. The current officer is currently undergoing periodic re-training in periodic examinations every three years. The minister says it could only be five years later. I could imagine after five years, calmly, but this Chamber of Deputies, which is able to produce an amendment of any law, maybe five to six times a year, wouldn't work here. Because a city police officer is a man on the street and he must have a fairly broad knowledge of the legislation in the activities he oversees and conducts. And if we work here as we work, and give every month or two amendments to the Criminal Code, the Criminal Code, the Trade Business Act, and others, those that he controls under his jurisdiction, I think it's wrong and we should keep on holding a periodical period of three years. On the contrary, I would perhaps be in favour of such expert trials with police officers of the Czech Republic, so that, if they are included in such places, they too have to prove their professional qualifications to perform their profession. I was talking about speed measurement, so there's no need to discuss it further. The law itself, I will be happy if it passes through the second reading, I will be happy if we can discuss it not only in the Committee on Security but also in the subcommittee on police and municipal police. I will be happy to assist in making a law for citizens of this Republic, and we could also say that an officer of the city police is, although he is not a police officer, part of the security of the Czech Republic and we can turn to him if necessary and we will have a person in him who will provide us with professional work. So I intercede for releasing this material into second reading and discussing it in committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u29	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Now with priority rights, the Minister of the Interior and the rapporteur with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u30	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, I would like to respond to some of the facts of the debate that has taken place. I'm the last person who would like to take the powers of the Police of the Czech Republic and move them to the city police. Urban police have become part of a certain security environment, and I do not think that it is the ambition of this standard to increase their powers, rather to the extent that it was. And since we have discussed the complexity of this standard with the experts of this Chamber of Deputies, the last time I discussed it with President Váňa, the chairman of the committee, we have agreed that, therefore, that the standard should have a chance to pass, so that there is a real chance to move somewhere and improve the current situation, they have tabled a comprehensive amendment to the Chamber of Deputies, which would include only three points where existing legislation would change. It would be an amendment that we would be able to prepare together with the committee, we are ready to participate in. Lowering the officer's age to 18 years. From our point of view, this is the way in the right direction, because there are currently several security forces, the Police of the Czech Republic, the city police, firefighters, the army and others in the Czech Republic applying for young men and women. We only want to enlarge the set of young people who would have the desire and interest to serve the state, but also the municipalities, of course. I don't think it's a good thing the customs are dragging the cops, that the cops are pulling the city's cops. That's the state that was here, is and will be, but it can't be a mass phenomenon. That is simply not what we think is right, and that is why we propose that there be a reduction of 18 years. [[16.30 hours]] Because, and we can lead an hour of polemics about this - the police officer of the Czech Republic joining the police has had relatively long training, annual training. We think that there is a greater emphasis on the burden of these people, and therefore we think that serving with a gun at the Police of the Czech Republic really since 18 years old is possible. Here we are convinced that the 21-year limit should remain, but we are ready to debate the committees. I understand that today a Czech citizen can obtain an arms license at the age of 18, including for his protection and defence. The question is, should a city police officer have it or shouldn't he? Let's have a debate about this. I'm ready for arguments that will be put on the table, put our arguments on, and we'll see if we agree. Frequency of tests after five years. I think the five-year-old frequency is fine, and I think we need officers and cops more on the street than they need to pass the exams. And a five-year cycle is considered sufficient by the Home Office's experts. Restrictions on the ability of officers to measure speed only in the territory of their community. I think that when the legislator approved the emergence of urban police years ago, he certainly did not think that the priority and the main objective should be to measure speed, and here we are just saying that if a smaller community from the larger one that has the city police, under a public contract, borrows de facto officers, it is not possible for it to be merely and only for the purpose of measuring speed. That's just not the objective of the city police. If he borrows them for another purpose - maintaining public order, if he borrows them for the purpose or hires them on the basis of the contract, based on the need for sporting, cultural events, it's okay, but if she should hire five officers on the basis of this public contract who will do nothing but measure speed, I think it's against the spirit of the law. And that's what I said here. Only and only in the case that a subsidiary municipality would hire it under a public contract. It's okay to measure speed in your own village. That's the way it's supposed to be, and that's where I don't see any problem. These are three points of the comprehensive amendment, where we thought there was agreement on how we could improve the standard slightly. That's the offer I came up with today because I know that the debate will be very difficult. Thank you for the debate that's been going on. It's not over yet, but I just wanted to set some things straight. What Mr Ondráček said through Mr President. I don't know how many times this House is amending what standard. I don't think the Homeland would be so late that it would carry around a little six times seven consecutive times during the three years I've been here, and the House is always replaced, Mr. Colleague, on the basis of free elections, and it awaits this one in a few months, so we'll see what new it will be and what rules it will adopt for its operation. I hope it will be the rules in the Czech law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u31	I thank the Minister of the Interior and now, with a point of fact, my colleague Milan Urban, then the rapporteur with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u32	Thank you for the floor. You're probably wondering why I'm on this topic. However, two comments. One more sneaky one. I haven't seen a city policeman on the sidewalk in Prague in a long time. I mean, he saw the camera and there was a tow truck behind it, but otherwise, no. But that's not why I got out. I'd like to ask if there are statistics on how much money the city police and the state police will collect on fines nationwide. And if such statistics exist, I wonder if these funds selected from Czech citizens or foreigners have been used back for the security of Czech citizens, if such an overview and statistics exist. I am worried about whether it will finance swimming pools or other loss-making companies within the Czech Republic. So if someone could calm me down, that it is not so and that it is coming back to the citizens of the Czech Republic to ensure their safety. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u33	I thank my colleague Urban for his time on the point of fact. Interesting question, I'm sure. Now, the rapporteur with priority rights, then a colleague of Mr Kolovratník. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u34	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm not going to do a summary yet, because I'm going to do a performance by my colleague Kolovratník, but I would just like to use it as a rapporteur right now, and in a moment, I'm going to tell you - please, the truths have fallen, things have fallen, that there is no reason left to stand. Because if the mayor doesn't know how the city police work, that's a surprise for me. I would like to warn you all from practice, please, the city police - I will not talk about the law - is a business card for the city's leadership. She should always be, she will be, and she's a card. When elections change, some new candidates or political parties wonder how they're gonna change it, how they're gonna do it. And really, it's just a department of the city. It's run by the mayor or deputy mayor or deputy mayor, and the way he drives it, it's done. I'd like to ask you all not to do folk creativity, because really, if the mayor is running the city police by buying them radars and measuring them, it's a matter for the citizens whether they are suffering, or the poor passing citizens who don't have the chance to change the mayor's election in that village, please, I'm gonna tell the people and have another to change the way the city police are going. It's sad. But there are city police who work for the citizens, as Mr Urban spoke, together with the state police will do a great deal of work. I think in one of these I worked on Most and Most, and I was lucky that the leadership was inclined. We didn't measure speed. We had two million-dollar radars. We didn't measure speed. So it really always depends -- and you all know it, you're mayors here, captains exes, it's a city card. And the fact that one officer is wrong or less intelligent doesn't greet Mr. Korte or give him a ticket, that's not what it's about. It's about the fact that we finally gave the mayors the power to participate in public order. And helping, that's the evolution of the times. I've never imagined as a state police officer in the past that an officer of the city police would bring me a nationwide wanted person or a robber who robbed a gas station, but if a damaged person calls the pump and the police officer gets there, he can't and won't wait for someone else to arrive in half an hour, he's doing something else. They're just gonna wrap him up. I'm telling you. It's just about how the political leadership wants it to work, and I think cities are running those officers in most of the cities for the benefit of the citizens today, as I've seen. Mr Urban's question. City police in Most cost 60 million, collects 14 million a year on fines. I'm responsible for myself. Statistics exist. If anyone's proving it, it's called. The College of City Police in our Republic and there are statistics. If they don't send it to you, I'll do it, and I'll show you how many cities have held up the perps, how many lives have been saved, because the money buys machines that break up a man who has a heart failure. So it really depends on how it goes. Trust me. I'd like to ask you, let's not worry about people's creativity, let's not jump to some journalists to pull something out of context. Somewhere you really need to measure speed, somewhere you really need to look for the perpetrator, catch, somewhere you need to do just public order and doggy. But the law must be complete and urban police, as it was established in 1991, so it was still military, Minister, you must remember, and those boys came from the army - I'm referring to 18 and 21 - and then they went to the city police. Today there is no war, and since 18 years of age they can hang out somewhere, they are at the office of work and wait until 21 after the brigades that they may become officers. Those are the reasons. Now, in short, I say the reasons why I support - not the Minister's reasons, but mine, too, because we have discussed them. Five years isn't about losing expertise, but even those officers are people, and cities need money. And that course costs a lot of money. And if, after three years, you're sending officers in the number of city police 130 as in Most, it cost me about 250,000 a year, the odds, because it's three years later. And the nerves of those officers, when they can lose their jobs every three years, that's pretty strong, too. So just so you know. If teaching takes place after five years, it'll save the city, and it won't slow the officers down to their intelligence and cleverness. They must have it from practice. And once again, it's up to their commander, the mayor, who's leading them because they can take classes every year, and if they're led in a direction that the city doesn't want, or people don't want it, or they just do bad things, they're gonna do them anyway, and they can take courses as they please. So I welcome the five years to save money and the psyche of officers and the number of courses. That's the reason I wanted to say. Therefore, in conclusion, as rapporteur, but also as MP, but also as a man, an officer, I ask you not to do folk creativity, and only practice, practice, practice, and remember how it is in those cities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u35	Thank you. Now we have a bit of complexity, because I have three factual points, and I ask the Minister whether he wants a priority right or also a fourth factual point. Fourth in fact. Okay. Now, Mr Adamec, first with a point of fact, will prepare his colleague Zlatuška with a point of fact, then Mr Svoboda, also with a point of fact, and the fourth will be the Minister, and then a duly registered colleague Kolovratník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u36	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, colleagues. I'm gonna say a few things I registered in the debate. I don't think anyone's graduate at 18 years of age. That's the first point. They're graduating at the age of 19 today, if I count correctly, so I guess 18 is special. Let's talk about the fact that city police officers or municipal police can only work after graduation, that is, in the period after 19 years. As far as five years are concerned, my colleague Vondráček here was right to say that the law here is changing like a treadmill. I always say that it is necessary to say the old British wisdom: When a parliament sits, one is not sure about life or property. This is still true today in a variable form. Of course, there are no drastic matters. And I'm always fascinated when someone criticizes us for not rushing, making little law, so they don't actually understand that work hasty, as they say, little valid. And in our country, we say not paid enough. It's just an explanation. Otherwise, five years... Of course, they lose money from the companies they train. That's what needs to be said. He's a pretty good business. And, of course, those who were in the municipalities, or are in the municipalities, the mayors or the directors of the city police, know very well what the training costs. Of course, it's a little stress for the officers, on the other hand, but it's a good thing they're training. And they have a chance to reparate. This also needs to be said that this is not just one test and enough. I wouldn't worry about that. And a colleague of Urbana's. This is a typical question of opposition representatives, Members, where the money from the withdrawal goes. Absolutely the right question. But I have one thing to say. It's gone down here. If you have a cargo on the city police, and now I'm going to say 15 million, you have a yield of 2 miles, that difference will end up in the city budget. And in general, it is hard to say that the difference will go directly to security or something else - yes, thank you - for community service. [[Time warning]] It doesn't matter, Mr. Colleague. I, Mr President, am sorry, I am done. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u37	Thank you. Otherwise, of course, it belonged to the Roman Senate, the remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to follow up on what my colleague Schwarz here said, that we should not be subject to folk creativity here, and make sure that I understand what we're dealing with here, correct. The Minister has submitted the text of the amendment to the Act, which he assumes will be all amended by the comprehensive amendment. So now we're really arguing about content that isn't on the table yet. If it would not be much better in order not to be subject to popular creativity, such standards should be presented directly in the form we are discussing and not skip the first reading in the form of just a bianko check to the fact that someone at second reading will prepare a comprehensive amendment, in which they will just submit to us what we are to discuss. Just because we meet these municipal officers in everyday life, that this also applies to our fellow citizens, and that there would not be such proposals as not having to have a graduation in a country where the graduation rate is slowly 90 percent of the population.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague of Bohuslav Svoboda also with a factual remark. And then a factual remark from the Home Secretary. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u40	Thank you. Good afternoon. I would like to thank my colleague Schwarz and my colleague Adamc, because the things they said are important to the city police. I, too, was the chief of the city police, and I met with her every month, and I know all their problems. I don't want to talk about whether to collect speeding tickets, that's nonsense, irrelevant in the work of city officers. The money goes into the city budget anyway, and if they buy some defibrillator for it, that's good. I would like to speak to the fact that the work of a city officer in Prague is something completely different. It's day-to-day work, day-to-day work with human misery, with human crime, with human disorder. It's a job that's, in a way, very hard. I don't know who you've ever seen, what it is when an officer works with homeless people when he works with drunks when he cleans out the homeless collection center. The work is very complicated, and putting young people there, 18-year-olds - that is something I would like to stress - is very complicated. After all, you have to be a little mature for that, and that graduation is one of the steps that is important to it. And we're actually graduating at the age of 19. This officer is doing a completely different job than what we're talking about here. He really cares about the city's order. And ensuring order is very difficult, very demanding, mentally demanding and should be mature. We in Prague deal with this by paying the city's officers well. We're paying them more than the state police are paying, and that means we're gonna be able to get those officers, and we're gonna increase their status. There is no need for any major change, especially not for people who are still immature to do so. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u41	With a point of fact, now the Minister of the Interior. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u42	According to the data the Ministry of Interior has, the total costs of the city police are 5.5 billion. And they're going to pick 260 miles. Crowns. This means, not only on penalties for unauthorised speed, but in general, that is, the fines as a whole. I guess it's possible to put the statistics in some kind of more detailed form. I'll try to secure it. If you will allow me to respond to the previous speaker through the President. It is precisely because the capital city of Prague gives the city's officers approximately 35,000. Kroner, we're not capable of 17,000. The starting salary is to be obtained by police officers of the Czech Republic. This means that there is a huge problem in Prague today to get a state police officer who has local knowledge. That means, unfortunately, police officers from other regions of the Republic are serving here. Thank God for them. But it's the disproportion between remuneration that's so high.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u43	Thank you, Minister. Now, Mr Martin Kolovratník, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u44	Mr President, thank you. Good evening. This is the fate of us patiently waiting in proper application. But I've been patient and I will be. I, colleagues, would like to speak from the point of view of a Member who is involved in transport, or in the issue of overlap and the link between this topic and the municipal police, precisely on transport and road safety. It has already been affected and discussed several times by my previous speakers, including the Minister. But at the beginning of my speech I want to react briefly, and these are some emotions or impressions, to Mr Korte, whom I listened very carefully at the outset. On the one hand, my colleague, I can understand the call for the preservation of civil liberties, the limitations of those repressive forces and so on and so on, but I want to believe, and I believe that most of my colleagues believe that we are here, too, that if there was any one-time excess, as you described your own example, it is about people. It's about individuals, and there's no reason for one unpleasant experience to change the system, reduce the number of municipal police officers, or let bůh disturb the entire institution. And specifically, in my case, if I were to meet with something like this, I'd probably go complaining about leadership, the director of that particular organization. [[16.50 hours]] But what I wanted to say, or what I've prepared for my performance, is just the traffic. I have discussed the issue here in my region both with colleagues from the Municipal Police in Pardubice, from the regional city, where I myself am a representative, I also asked in smaller municipalities in my region, for example in the village Sezemice, which has less than four thousand inhabitants. He's got his own city police. Now I should apologize to Sezemický, they're the city. They're proud of it. The city police are renting or lending their services to others on the basis of the public contract referred to by the Minister. I'm guessing it's ten, maybe twelve communities in the area. The municipalities share the costs. The village of Reality, Alinsko in my county. I guess there are at least dozens of these examples in the whole republic. First of all, if I meet a police officer, whether state or municipal, and he somehow restricts me to my rights, he wants to legitimize me, he won't want to let me in - well, when will it happen? It's probably gonna happen if I'm breaking the law in some way. I'm breaking the code. I'm just acting the way I don't have, whether it's in traffic, that I'm going faster than I have, I'm violating a securely set maximum permissible speed, or I'm breaking public order, etc. I mean, if I'm being polite, I've never had a problem with cops. And it's up to the authority to measure the speed of the vehicles. It is often about feelings, assumptions, and myths. Few people know that city cops can't measure where they want to. Behind each beech, as they say, they're just making money. If the city police, and it doesn't matter whether in their own village or in the one where the contract is concluded, they have to come and ask the Police of the Czech Republic. He has to make a request. To justify the request, why he wants to measure where he wants to. If it's in terms of security, school, hospital, etc. Measurements at that location are either allowed or not. Another myth or other emotional argument that the revenue from fines serves to fill municipal cash registers. According to statistics that at least I have at my disposal, sometime in 2010, they averaged around 6% in the Czech Republic. In 2015, less than 5%. They're articles, or the source is the Home Office. So I guess this number also suggests something. In the material I have prepared, there is a beautiful argument that if we restrict the authority of the municipal police in terms of measuring speed or checking road traffic safety and speed, we will reduce the number of offences that have been committed and which have been fined, but we will certainly not reduce the number of offences committed. Those that really happened where the drivers in the villages didn't keep up speed. It is a first reading, so I consider my speech to be an avízo or an introduction of my opinion and my arguments, and I will certainly be happy to take part in the negotiations with colleagues on the committees. Even here in plenary, I will continue to quote and convince you in this direction that the competence of the municipal police in the area of road safety at least is not restricted, so that the local police can continue to function and proceed in the field as it has been so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u45	Thank you, Mr Martin Kolovratník. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u46	Thank you. I would just like to emphasise more general principles for my colleagues and follow up on what my colleague Schwarz and Slávek Svoboda said. After all, we are discussing the fact that, in the long run, the city police should be directed towards the service of local communities. Their internal cohesion, trust in officers, knowledge, ability to solve social problems. So the police can support people, not the bogeyman. While state police specialize in sophisticated crime, violence, I don't know what everything, it should be a mature person here. That's why I'm having a little trouble with the 18 years, because it's... But for me, it's marginality, if we agree that the overall direction of the police should be a service to the community and its inhabitants. And if we follow these principles, even if we modify it at second reading, we can just do it. But it needs to be realized that we can't want them to investigate sophisticated crime. Chasing some crazy racer in a car who's going crazy. These people should serve the inhabitants, they should be known and they should have their trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u47	I thank Mr Ivan Gabal. It's been... it's not like that. My colleague, Milan Brázdil, is reporting with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u48	Thank you. I'd just like to ask if it could be remembered for such a thing as cooperation with the rescue service. Currently city police in our republic in municipalities, it is folk creativity. It's basically... Any drunk is, like, beyond the police's ability, most of the time, and they're calling an ambulance that's being abused for that. I'm not saying it's everywhere. I would argue too much if it were also remembered that the rules would be given in some way more detail than if they agreed one way or the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u49	I thank Mr Brázdil. Mr Kolovratník's point of fact now. He's surrendering, okay. Thank you. In that case, I have no application for a debate, and I can end the debate. I'm asking for final words. Neither the Minister nor the rapporteur is interested in final words. We can move on to the hearing. We will address the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion, because there was no motion to return or reject the submitted... [[From the diaper: It was.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I haven't been driving all this time, I've only just noticed a note from my colleague Gazdík. There's a motion for rejection at first reading. The rapporteur, is that correct? We'll vote on him. But first, I'm going to unsign you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. I will arrange to invite my colleagues and colleagues back to the meeting room. The motion to reject will be the subject of our vote number 48, which I will begin in a moment when the number of entries is settled. We can vote. I have begun voting number 48 and I ask who is in favour of rejecting the draft of the municipal police. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 48 from 131 Members present for 114, against 102. The motion was not accepted. And we can proceed in action by commandments. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to the Security Committee to discuss it as a guarantee committee. Does anyone have a proposal for another guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will decide in the vote number 49, which I have launched, and I ask who is for the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 49 of 137 for 131 Members present, against no one. The Guarantee Committee has been approved by the Security Committee. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. At the same time, the Organizing Committee proposed to order this proposal to the Constitutional Legal Committee as the next committee to discuss it. Anyone else have a suggestion? Yes, my colleague Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u50	Thank you for the floor. Since this issue concerns municipalities and cities, I propose a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-022-040.u51	Okay, thank you. Any other suggestions? It's not like that. We will therefore vote in vote number 50 first on the commandment to the constitutionally-legal committee. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 50 of 137 Members present for 104, against 12. The motion was accepted. [[17,00 hours]] Now the last vote on this issue, and this is the commandment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I've started voting number 51. Who is for the commandment of this committee? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 51, from 137 present for 70, against 37. The motion was accepted. This proposal was directed to the Committee on Constitutional Law and to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The proposal to shorten the time limit has not been submitted in the debate and therefore the time limit for discussion in the committees is maintained to 60 days. So much for this point. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur, and I finish point 40. Before we go any further, I will state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes from 17:00 to the end of the day, Mr Adam Rykala apologizes today from 17:00 and tomorrow for all personal reasons, Mr Tomio Okamura apologises from 16:00 to the end of the day, Mr Martin Komárek from 17:00 to the end of the day and Vice-President Gazdík from 17:00 to the end of the day. We will continue with the point
