ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u1	282. Information of the Government on the procedure in the case of disadvantageous privatisation of OKD We started discussing this point on 30 June last year at the 48th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We listened to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka's opening words, we listened to Mr Marek Černoch and Members' speeches with factual remarks and the opinion of the KSČM. Then we interrupted the meeting. The general debate has not been initiated. I'm going to make one more comment. At the request of the KSČM MEP, you have been given a House document 4663 and you should all have it at your disposal. If the Prime Minister is not interested in speaking after that six months - I ask, Mr President - he is not interested, then we can start a general debate. Mr Petr Kudela is the first to report, but previously with priority rights, Mr Marek Černoch. Okay. I would ask the House for peace. With priority, I give the floor to Mr Marek Černoch. The debate will then continue. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to wish you every success this year, for the first time on the microphone. Now to the case of OKD. I went over what Prime Minister Sobotka told us here last year at an extraordinary point to privatize OKD. His words, of course, are a complete farce and a mockery not only to the Members, but to all the citizens of our country. The fact that OKD was sold at a good price and didn't rob our state, I think, no one believes at all. Prime Minister Sobotka literally donated everything to his friend Mr. Bakal as part of the OKD robbery. OKD was sold for a ridiculous amount of 4.1 billion. Kč. For this amount were sold not only the Ostrava-Karvin mines themselves, but also 44 thousand mining flats in Havířov, Ostrava, Karviné, further 1,200 flats in Kladno, a total of 32 subsidiaries of OKD and other real estates such as land, recreational buildings. Ernst & Young's expert opinion determined the value of OKD net assets at 52 billion. Kč. So our country was robbed by tens of billions. The OKD thief has also been dealt with by Czech courts for some time. You, Prime Minister, are still saying that everything was perfectly fine. So, do our citizens get used to similar practices and similar robberies? Do you think it's okay for our country to be robbed by tens of billions of crowns? The author of the incriminating opinion on the value of OKD, Mr Rudolf Doucha, claims that including all assets in the evaluation was not the content of the task he received from the National Property Fund. So he received a clear command: Appreciate it without apartments. The highest places had to be instructed to do so. Today's Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka sat in the highest positions. The main defendant in the case, former Vice-President of the Executive Committee of the National Property Fund, Mr Pavel Kuta, asked the court to release a sound record of the government's incriminating 2004 meeting. If everything is okay, as the Prime Minister keeps telling us, there is certainly no reason not to release the tapes. Do you agree with me, Prime Minister Sobotka, that nothing really happened, as you say, that everything went well, and therefore there is no reason to release the recording? But the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic refuses to release a recording where he is expressing himself at a crucial moment on a billion-dollar sale. I'm asking why. Our citizens have the right to hear this recording. Isn't it worth publishing a tape and defending yourself? That's what you're gonna tell them before the election, not empty phrases and vain promises. I have a clear explanation for why everyone is so afraid of this. We would have learned from the recording that you already knew that the selling price of the OKD was absolutely ridiculous, and so on the recording you're blaming yourself. If that's not true, release this recording. Take a firm step and end the OKD debate. Don't give an hour speech about anything, but release the tape, and we'll be clear. Therefore, Prime Minister Sobotka, I call you once more, publish the materials, publish them unless you have something to hide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u3	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. I remind you that he was the rapporteur on this point, so I'm going to ask him to take his place at the rapporteur's desk. In the open debate, we will continue with Mr Petr Kudela's speech from KDU-ČSL - which I do not see. His application is therefore forfeit at the end of the application. Now, Mrs Olga Havlová in the debate. Mr Tomio Okamura will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u4	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As a Member of the Moravian-Silesian Region, I also have to comment on this. In the Moravian-Silesian Region, more than 10,000 jobs in the mines themselves are now in real danger due to the closure of OKD and according to estimates by trade unionists another 20,000 in related operations, which Bakala sold, e.g. air conditioning, canteen, kitchen, etc., and other sectors that are closely related to mining. If this situation occurs and the shafts close, it will be a complete collapse of the unemployment of the Moravian-Silesian region. Responsible for this condition is our current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Although he has been in office for the fourth year as Prime Minister and must be well aware that he has participated in this condition, he has done nothing for OKD until today. He's the one who brutally sold Bakal under the price of OKD mines. He's the one who transferred the 44,000 mining apartments to Bakal in Havířov, Ostrava and Karviné. It is he who gave him a free gift from the mining hospital in Karviná or hotels in Frýdek-Místek and Petrovice near Karviná and others, which Bakalova group sold for almost 150 miles in total. Kč. Last year there was a report that ČSSD advisors bought the Kladenka mountain hotel in Krkonoše Mountains, which was the original property of OKD, whose privatisation was also presented by our Prime Minister, Mr Sobotka, to the government today. They could have had it for free by now if the Minister had given it to them. It was Bohuslav Sobotka who, according to his expert opinion, donated a total of 47 billion to Mr Bakal. And how is that possible? For the sake of clarity, this sum is strikingly close to the Czech Republic's 2015 deficit. A few billion here, a few billion there. And now the easy numbers of the merchant. The whole company OKD was independently awarded by experts, two experts, for 50 billion. Kč. In addition, OKD apartments themselves were estimated to be another 12 billion. Kč. Other apartments were donated in Kladno for about half a billion. But I understand that such a low sum no longer plays a role and is under the discernment of the former Minister of Finance. [[17.10 hours]] We'll stay with the maths. The state's share of this property was 46 percent, which is 35 billion, and when we add apartments, the state's share in OKD was 47 billion. Nobody misses this money? And now the most important thing, folks. The year is 2004 and the regional committee ČSSD is held in the Polish house in Ostrava, which is attended by some members of the government. Of the most famous, I name Stanislav Gross, Lubomír Zaorálek and our current Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka. A resolution emerged from this regional committee in which it is recommended not to sell OKD to the government - not to sell - for 4.1 billion, because the mere price of the flats was calculated at 12 billion. In 2011, the European Commission consecrated the privatisation of OKD for 4.1 billion. CZK based on information supplied by the accused expert Rudolf Doucha. In 2004, he estimated the price of the State's shares, i.e. the 46 percent I was talking about, to just 2.8 billion. instead of 35 billion. The international consulting firm Ernst & Young only appreciated the production part of OKD instead of 2.8 billion. About 30 billion. Negligence, sklendrian, ignorance, or intent? Answer this question yourself for billions. It's kind of like the amount of iron in spinach when they're only wrong about the decimal point. At present, the government presents the loss rate of OKD and it is interesting that some other billionaires are interested in OKD. And you know why? Because the annual profit of the current OKD is 8 billion. According to the Prime Minister, he did not sign the position for the European Commission, which investigated the case, but the late Deputy Minister Eduard Janota - and he can no longer defend himself. But one thing is clear. Sobotkův's ministry already knew about expert reports, according to which the value of the state share of the shares was at least 10 billion. Nevertheless, the European Commission was sent that the OKD selling price of 4.1 billion. He's okay. Ladies and gentlemen, if the privatization of OKD were carried out just a little honestly, the entire Moravian-Silesian region could prosper today. We could have had a functioning mining industry and many other thriving companies, which have always paid small sums to the state budget on the contributions. There would be enough money for mining pensions and rents to allow miners to retire to a well-deserved early retirement if the State collected dues from the tonne extracted that the law allowed. We could have had 44,000 mining flats that tenants could buy at an affordable price. On the contrary, Bakala moved socially weak into these apartments and sucked out the state at other social benefits. Another mischief that the state was idling, and the mining office was doing a dead bug, was not complying with the upper law. According to this law, Bakala was obliged to extract the entire bearing, and instead, selective mining was carried out. Another violation of the Mining Act allowed Mr Bakal to buy out land and real estate in advance for planned mining even in places where it is still not mining. By 2012, he was still buying land and properties from the Mining Damage Fund. For the sake of clarity, this fund must be established by law and may not be used for these purposes. The civil society brought the law's violation to the attention, and yet the state did not ask for the money back to this budget. OKD and thus Bakala made billions for years. Now the loss is to be paid by the state, by citizens who do not dream of the fairy tales of a rolled coalbaron. We're left with a raided county with an uncertain future. There's talk of the Paskov mine over and over again, but that would just be the beginning of a disaster. They are ready in order to close another shaft in Karvina. Between 1984 and 1985, when coal mines were closing in the UK, our trade unions handed three hundred miners and their families a helping hand. Today, within the European Union, no one will give us a hand. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot sit back and watch this. It is quite clear fraud, the inaction of the Prime Minister, who, in collaboration with the Mining Authority, was well aware of the problems that would arise. I want Prime Minister Sobotka and his associates to be responsible for this situation, including Mr Bakala. Members of the government, especially Minister Babiš, see the decline of OKD in a simplified manner. He argues that when the Ostrava part of the OKD went down, 100,000 miners were released and everything was handled. But no one will say that the miners then received an extraordinary pension at the age of 50, no one will say that quick and unprofessional closing down caused several accidents, an explosion in Salma canteen, an explosion in a house in Silesian Ostrava, etc. and that the state invests a considerable amount of resources annually to monitor the occurrence of methane, embodying old mining works through Diamo to this day. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Government regulation 167/2016, according to which miners can draw up to three years 8,000 when released from the mine, is bound only to the company OKD, and only for the duration of insolvency. If the name of the company changes or the company gets out of insolvency, this claim expires. However, in the later regulation, which applies to other mining firms, these conditions are not applicable and are therefore valid without restrictions. The government mainly claims through the Finance Minister that OKD gave money to liquidate the Paskov mine, but the amount of 700 million OKD received as a loan should also be used for operation and not for closing the mine. OKD is looking for a new strategic partner, and I'm asking why.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u5	I, my colleague, will interrupt you and ask the House for peace, both on the left and on the Wednesday and on the right, so that the Member has a dignified environment for the presentation of her contribution. I'm really asking for peace. Madam, my lords! We've been waiting six months for this point to be discussed, and I think that debates outside this point can be conducted in the foyer. Thank you. Go on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u6	According to the Constitution and the Mining Act, the State is obliged to treat mineral wealth as a proper caretaker, not to watch the arrival of the new Bakala. All over Europe, coal is considered a strategic raw material and mines are owned by the state. In the event of further tumbling of the OKD, it will be the same way to finance liquidation, because the security risks in the event of non-solving these problems are enormous. The state should push harder to take over the Frenštát mine as a future possible bearing in terms of the position of a proper economic operator. The state should press for OKD leadership, which has contributed to the situation in which the company is located to a considerable extent. The state should try to keep OKD together, as individual mines are so connected that the operation of one mine is not possible without cooperation with others, both materially and personally. Finally, a rhetorical question for the Prime Minister. What did you get from privatizing OKD, Prime Minister? I can hear your answer now, nothing. And what was it supposed to cost? We all know nothing either. So if neither Mr Sobotka nor the State had any of this, then I think the Prime Minister is probably incompetent. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u7	Thank you, Mrs Olza Havlová. A colleague named Tomio Okamura canceled his application. Now, Mrs Jana Hnyková. [[Mrs Hnyk is not responding for a while.]] Mrs. Hnyková, if... He insists on his application. Mr. Josef Hájek will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u8	I apologize, Mr President, for not paying attention to the fact that the name was erased so quickly before me. Ladies and gentlemen, the first trip to the Social Policy Committee led us to the Moravian-Silesian Region, where we were interested in the already rising situation of the miners and their future. What we were interested in almost three years ago has now become a major problem for the Moravian-Silesian region. At that time, tension and dissatisfaction only grew and we will not tell ourselves that even after some of the government's solutions, everything is resolved. The mines are gradually closing down and the future of the miners is threatened. Apart from the early retirement of the miners that we have approved here, I see no concrete solutions and significant solutions to the future of the miners, their livelihood and work. He's debating, he's promising, but people are waiting for specific help and they're asking what's next. All of this concerns not only the miners themselves, but other follow-up professions, and today my colleague Havlová has already said to me that she will ultimately lose her job to 30,000 people and social problems will begin to increase in our country, and that is just an estimate. I guess the reality is different. Work is very important, but we also have housing that is equally important to a person. If I go back to history that the sharp decline in coal prices over the last three years certainly accelerated the fall of the NVR and OKD, it was not the main cause. Today's mining industry's problems had already started to be mucked up in 1991 and 1992. The then government launched the rapid privatisation of mining companies and the Minister of Industry Vladimír Dlouhý introduced mining flats into OKD. Bakalova's company NVR so later when buying OKD fell into the lap of over 40,000 mining flats. The financier founded the company Asental and took the apartments out of OKD and made incredibly good money on it, and these apartments are still lucrative. Socially weak, who now live in them, earn their owners welfare benefits, and, in turn, it comes from taxpayers' money. OKD shares were acquired by cities and municipalities of the Moravian-Silesian Region, which sold them to dealers in 1998. In 2004, Mr Bakala already had a majority share and asked the government to sell him its share. She believed false estimates and sold the rest of OKD for a ridiculous few billion. At the same time, the value was much higher. Today, former mining flats are worth 20 to 25 billion crowns. OKD also included other subsidiaries such as coke plants, AWT transport and others that the NVR also sold. From 2004 until now, Mr Bakala has benefited from OKD around 125 billion. And other mistakes were made. And you, Prime Minister Sobotka, know as former Finance Minister that you have made mistakes that this country and taxpayers will pay hard for decades. I ask you, Mr Sobotka, through Mr President: you were in the second wave of privatisation. Where's the social fund that should take care of the miners? The government has been in power for over three years, solving the effects, past mistakes, and your mistakes, Prime Minister Sobotka. Your mistakes and your colleagues involved in the sale of OKD will now be paid by all of us instead of giving money to support young families, seniors, to have decent pensions, to improve the life of disabled people, not to mention the salaries of social services workers, police officers and firefighters. Mr. Sobotka, you were involved in the tunnel of the century, in the tunnel of our national wealth. The wealth that belonged to all our citizens. You are responsible for this situation and at the moment you have nothing to do in these benches, but you should sit on the bench of the defendants together with others. And I hope to see it, and not just me, but everyone to whom privatization has touched and affected their lives negatively. Therefore, my fellow Members, I would ask you to set up the committee of inquiry that we are proposing, we have the signatures collected, and I will ask you, together with the other colleagues, to support and approve them. In conclusion, I just want to say one thing. Such tunnels, Prime Minister, we will not suffer in our country, and everyone who makes them should bear their responsibility. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u9	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Mr Josef Hájek will now take the floor, a colleague of Leo Luzar will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u10	Good evening, Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. After more than half a year, our House returns to a topic that is still very topical for the citizens of my region. This topic is the situation in OKD. Unfortunately, today we are witnessing the clinical death of this once largest Czechoslovak company, which in 1989 gave work to over 100 000 employees. I know what I'm talking about. I worked at OKD from 1 November 1977 to 31 August 2013, i.e. Almost 36 years. And it is quite understandable that I am very interested in the fate of this company. Mining in Ostrava, Karvinsko has more than 200 years of tradition, and for many of us who have joined our lives with mining, it is indeed a heart thing. That is why I think it is entirely legitimate to ask the question of who bears political, moral and possibly criminal responsibility for OKD being in liquidation. I assumed Prime Minister Sobotka would answer that question. I have studied his speech very carefully on this point, which took place on 30 June last year. The Prime Minister told us that OKD, like the large majority of other companies in the Czech Republic, went through a wild privatization, thanks to which the state mostly obtained nothing. And thanks only to the efforts of Bohuslav Sobotka, who was Minister of Finance in 2004, the state by selling 46 percent of the shares of OKD received an amount of CZK 4.1 billion. 4.1 billion crowns is really a lot of money, but not for 46% of the share of the company that owned 44,000 flats, thousands of hectares of land, dozens of hotel facilities, coke plants, Báňské strojírny, Exhibition of OKD, OKD Transport, OKD Reclamation, Mining Commercial Company, Kovohuta Břídličná, Kovonu Karviná, Mining Pension Fund, Plant of Energy and Supply, Automation and Mechanization, Mining Survey and Security, and I could also name a number of other companies. The fact that the Prime Minister only demanded CZK 4.1 billion for the sale of this huge property is a strong argument for me to argue that the Prime Minister did not proceed with the care of a proper economic operator when signing the sale of a minority stake in OKD in 2004. I know the Prime Minister will tell me that he relied on expert opinions in his decision, but in my opinion, if someone is a finance minister, they must have analytical thinking or at least follow common sense. Please come, colleagues and colleagues, count me in. In 2004, then Minister of Finance Bohuslav Sobotka sold Karbon Invest, 46% of the state's share in OKD. The property of OKD was 44,000 flats. 46% of this quantity is 20,240 flats. In 2004 in the Moravian-Silesian Region the average selling price of one square metre was CZK 7 304. For a two-bedroom apartment with an area of 50 square meters it is therefore a price of 350 thousand. Knight for the apartment. [[17.30 hours]] Since the buyer has contracted not to transfer ownership to a third party, I will not calculate with a market price but only with a price of 100 thousand. Kroner per apartment. If I multiply this price for one apartment by 20,240 flats that were part of the sale of 46 percent of the shares, we get to 2 020 million. Crowns. The sale of the minority share included a 46% share of 4,700 hectares of land. Forty-six percent share is 2,162 ha. In 2004, the price of land in the districts of Karviná, Ostrava and Frýdek-Místek ranged from CZK 200 to CZK 1,000 per square metre. If I put only CZK 100 per square metre per land in my merchant numbers, it's CZK 21 620 million in land. I'm going to get 2,160 miles square meters. Crowns. Just for the record: I suspect that in 2014 there was a deposit, respectively. a contract was concluded for the purchase of land from Asental from the Bakal Group for the construction of the Barbora industrial zone for the price of CZK 212 per square metre. If I do the sum of my buyer's numbers, I'll get to 4 180 miles just for apartments and land. CZK, which is an amount of 80 million. higher than the state's share in OKD. So I'm just asking, what did he get for his 46% share of mines, for mining equipment, for his share in coke shops, in Báňské strojírny, in OKD, in OKD Transport, OKD Rekultivace, Kovohutích Bříličná? And I could rename all the businesses again. The Prime Minister has repeatedly spoken of following the conclusions of experts in his decision. Unfortunately, I cannot identify with this argument. It was enough if the Prime Minister had done the same simple price calculation or an analysis of sold flats and land as I did. For my calculations I was sufficient with data from the Czech Statistical Office. The Prime Minister is a graduate of the Faculty of Law, so I find it hard to believe that if the Prime Minister decided to sell his Prague apartment and the expert would rate it at 300 thousand. A crown, so he would sign such a contract without hesitation. With a reason for his wife: unfortunately, everything must be followed unconditionally by an expert opinion. I'm not the only one who thinks the state has conveniently sold off its 46% stake in OKD. The suspicion of a disadvantageous sale of the minority share of the state in OKD 2004 is also solved by an independent court. However, I cannot shake the impression that this court is at the brink of the media interest of our journalists, even though the action here calculates the damage to the state of 5,7 billion. Crowns. You can confront it today with information when the newspapers, the media are full of Mrs. Nagyová's case, where we're talking about some 10 miles. for the purses. And for me, or maybe it's even more important to you that this is a criminal trial. This means that if the court held that 46% of the OKD's share had been privatised, all the contracts in its context would have been null and void and the assets would have returned to the State. Moreover, in such a case, the Court of First Instance may decide to secure a case which is the proceeds of criminal activity. I certainly do not need to talk to you about the far-reaching consequences of such decisions. Let me just remind you that we're talking about a case where our Prime Minister is a major member. I don't want my performance to sound like a criticism of the Prime Minister. A number of other politicians and backstage players participated in the bitter fate of OKD. Today, few will remember that Mr Vladimír Dlouhý laid the cornerstone of the OKD's wild privatization by unsystemically separating the CSM Mine from OKD. Who today remembers Mr. Jiří Skalický of ODA, who, a few days before the abolition of the National Property Fund, reduced OKD's assets, which subsequently allowed Mr. Gross to acquire a majority in OKD? Who today will remember the date of October 14, 1998, the day that Mr Tomáš Ježek called capital incest? On this day, a group of three managers of OKD, namely Mr Koláček, Otava and Przybyla, won a majority stake in OKD without spending one crown of their own. The culprits responsible for the fate of OKD are many and each contributed to today's pitiful state of affairs in which the OKD company is located. After the sale of the minority stake of the State to Karbon Invest in 2004, subsequently in the same year the company bought Mr Bakala and OKD finally received a kiss of death. Bakala and his associates founded NWR in 2005 and started a stage called "NWR." diversification of the company, Czech-English-English-English-English-English-English-English-English-English-English-English-English-English Tunneling. Everything that had any value, Bakala from OKD pulled out and sold. Another tens of billions of Bakala pulled out of OKD in the form of dividends or entry to the stock exchange. Most of the time, the state stood idly by. One of the few responses was an action brought by the Ministry of Finance in 2010 by the Cypriot company RPG Industries. It was a 20-mile fine. CZK, for the fact that the housing fund of the former OKD was transferred to RPG Apartments. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance failed at the time, but thanks to this, there is an arbitration award from 2011. It states that there was no breach of the privatisation agreement, because the apartments got into RPG by dividing the original OKD into seven successor companies, which does not prohibit the privatisation agreement. In addition, the transfer of apartments took place within the NWR Group, which continues to be controlled by RPG Apartments. These were, according to the arbitration court, the main reasons why there were no grounds for payment of the fine to the Ministry of Finance. More importantly, then, the tenants' hopes of buying apartments again, as promised. In the meantime, however, there has been a substantial change in the situation. This is what I believe can revive the hope of tenants to acquire their apartments, and that is that RPG has taken over the Luxembourg company Fondy Housing 3 and has pledged them to the British company CBRE Loan Services Limited. Neither company is clear who its real owners are and who its beneficiaries are. This, in my view, dramatically changes the situation and reopens the possibility for miners to buy their apartments under the conditions laid down in the privatisation agreement. The apartments are, in my opinion, already outside the NWR concert and outside the control of the companies that originally privatized OKD. The Prime Minister, as I said before, is not the only culprit of the current situation in the OKD. From 2006 to 2013, the right-wing government and Minister of Finance Mr Kalousek ruled here with little breaks. By the way, in 2004, when the minority stake was sold, the chairman of the budget committee for the then government KDU-ČSL. On 5 November 2009, when discussing the item entitled The Government Report on the Solution of Issues. OKD housing fund at the time of the opposition ČSSD by a Member of the Zaorálek asked the government to examine the possibility of withdrawal from the contract for the sale of the state's share of shares in the company OKD in view of the apparent failure to comply with the terms of the contract. During that debate, Mr Miroslav Opálka asked Mr Kalousek's Finance Minister whether he was willing to swear that the money he controlled by Mr Bakala would in no way be used for the benefit of the TOP 09. Kalousek said at the time: "Sorry to delay, but I must answer yes to such a direct address. And I swear here from this place that Zdeněk Bakala or any of his companies have never given and will never give any funds to the TOP 09. Everything else is slander." [[17.40 hours]] What happened next in the case of OKD Apartments? As has already been said, in January 2010, the Ministry of Finance granted RPG Flats a contractual fine of 30 million. Kroner, but the referee refused. The reason was that the State failed to check compliance with the relevant provisions of the contract. Bakala didn't have to pay the state anything and saved 30 miles. in 2010 he divided fairly: ODS received 15 million, TOP 09 - repeat, TOP 09 - and Public Affairs together after 7.5 million. I suppose on the fingers of one hand I can count those who believe that these were gifts that stem only from Mr Bakala's political conviction. On the contrary, Mr Kalousek's sworn lying on 5 November 2009 will believe the entire nation because Mr Kalousek himself has been convicted. This item is entitled Information of the Government on the procedure in the case of disadvantageous privatisation of OKD. Unfortunately, I have not yet learned anything new about how the government wants to proceed on this matter. From my point of view, the Prime Minister is responsible for selling the minority stake of the state in OKD, and in this context, I blame the Prime Minister for three things. First, the sale of 46% of the State's share at a very disadvantageous price. Secondly, it clearly did not oblige the buyer to subsequently sell 44,000 flats to the tenants. And thirdly, he did not contractually oblige the buyer to create a reserve for the liquidation phase of the mine. No one in our region will forgive the fact that the Prime Minister clearly did not contract the buyer to sell the apartments to the tenants. 44,000 tenants pay non-Christian rents and call the Prime Minister for social democracy to turn its rudder to the left, taking it as a mockery. They don't want the Prime Minister to spin the wheel, they want their apartments that were promised to them, and the Prime Minister should have guaranteed it. Nor will my miners and taxpayers forgive the Prime Minister for not contractually binding the Buyer party enough to create sufficient resources for the mine's decline phase. In my experience, I know how a sophisticated reserve-building system works for such cases and handling them in the largest German mining company, RAG. I mean, the Bakal miners made tens of billions, and today, when they close their shafts, they get, as they say, dry from their noses. There's no promised severance money, there's no money for the technical disposal of the shaft. And who's gonna pay for all this? Taxpayer. And at what cost? For several billion crowns. We are here today and perhaps next time to discuss the question of who bears moral and political responsibility for the fate of the OKD, and whoever most participated in its collapse is enjoying his cigar today on the shores of Lake Geneva with billions stolen in his pocket. This is not what we miners really wanted in 1989. The years lost by the inactivity of governments cannot be undone, but I believe that the damage can still be mitigated. Therefore, in my resolution, which I will propose for three years if it comes to a detailed debate today. The first step is for the Ministry of Finance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, to analyse the possibilities of securing assets privatised in 2004 in case it is a return on crime. Secondly, in order to analyse whether it would be appropriate to bring an arbitration suit against RPG Byty, which would try again to enforce paragraph 7.6 of the letter D of the privatisation agreement, i.e. the sale of individual flats from the so-called OKD housing fund to their current tenants under the conditions laid down in the contract. Finally, thirdly, the Government of the Czech Republic should take all steps to identify who the beneficial owners and beneficiaries of Fondy Housing 3 from Luxembourg and CBRE Loan Services Limited from Great Britain currently controlled by the Commercial Register by RPG Apartments, including the mandate of this task of the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, if this proves necessary. I hope that these legal steps by the Czech Republic against the current or former owners of OKD flats will help enforce what Prime Minister Sobotka was supposed to guarantee for the sale of 46 percent of the state's shares. What was stolen must be returned. With this motto Mr. Kalousek advocated church restitution. I believe that with the same determination, he and our entire House will support measures leading at least to the return of stolen flats to their tenants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u11	I thank Mr Josef Hájek. And now Mr Leo Luzar will take the floor. Mrs Milada Halíková will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u12	Mr President, Prime Minister, Minister, Ministers, fellow Members, colleagues, there have been a lot of words and a lot of them have been true. I thank my colleague Hájek from my region, who quite accurately named the situation that is currently in this region, and how this region lives the problems of OKD. However, I must point out here that this country does not only have OKD. This concerns the problems of the region, but I think that every citizen in the Czech Republic is able to say similar negative experiences from its area after the wave of wild privatization. There are a lot of companies that have fallen and ended in history. We are currently dealing with OKD and it is linked to the fact that it employs a lot of employees, these are billions of sums that could burden the state budget. But who here will remember the dozens of smaller companies that have been tangled up, which have been robbed, which have ended? How many thousands of employees lost their jobs? Those are all problems that don't come out here today, they're not the real issue. Nevertheless, I can and will remind myself of the proposal by Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia on the indeterminateness of the privatisation crime. I think that, as Members, we have the debt to the Czech country to allow parts of the institutions in criminal proceedings to deal with these things, because we all see that even after 20 years new facts are coming to light, which could justify us to reopen our investigation and proceedings, as it was in fact in those thousands of companies that ended badly at the time. And if we do not allow this law, which is parked in this House, to deal with it, the statute of limitations will play in favour of those who caused it. Now allow me specifically on the OKD point under consideration. It sounded like whoever was responsible. There have been complaints and reservations. I will try to draw attention to the problems ahead of us in my performance. The problem ahead is the malfunction of collective bargaining. It is a general secret in Ostrava that, in a collective agreement signed by the management of OKD with trade unionists, at the time of signing management knew that he was unable to perform it, and yet signed it without any punishment and without any concern. This is a warning for the trade union movement: beware of it when you write collective agreements to ensure that what is written there is the owner able to do. Today, OKD unionists can only question the consciences and hopes they put in when OKD's problems became apparent. The second problem is the one that has historically been associated with the function of the National Property Fund, it has already been said here, I will not repeat it. By the form of privatisation that was adopted, we were in a state where assets in billions, which, if sold individually, as has also been said here, would be of significantly greater value than when the share value was taken at the moment on the market and it was based on that. But these problems have already been repeated by my previous speakers here, and I will therefore try to concentrate on what I would like this honourable House to adopt in the resolution on this point. The system includes a House document under No. 4663, it is very difficult to find, because this is a House document, so I will quote from this document and say why I propose what is written in it. Among other things, you have all received it in writing during the previous discussion of this point, but I prefer to repeat it, I understand that it is easy to lose in the amount of materials you receive. In paragraph 1, the Czech Republic notes that through a political decision that contradicted the views of the general public, the academic community in the field of raw materials and energy, and the absence of a clear and long-term raw material and energy concept, it has reached a number of problems which have enhanced the problematic privatisation of the right to acquire and trade in our national wealth and raw materials, including black and brown coal. I will not discuss this point, because colleagues have already discussed in detail the beginning of the whole issue of OKD, including the Prime Minister in his speech last time. [[17.50 hours]] The Chamber of Deputies - secondly - requires the government of the Czech Republic to ensure (a) possibilities of mining all types of coal as irreplaceable mineral resources of the Czech Republic today and in the future; (b) the protection of deposits reserved for the mineral of the Czech Republic from their irreparable impairment in the event of any changes in ownership relationships or termination of business. These two points should be addressed so that we do not lose this coal, which remains underground unclaimed, and it is billions of crowns. Today OKD solves the problem that it doesn't have 60 million for maintenance at the Frenštát mine, but the restoration of this mine would cost about 25 billion. And it needs to be considered that it is the government's duty to protect mineral wealth. (c) Legality and fulfilment of all obligations entered into during privatisation and resulting from laws and regulations relating to the protection of health, nature, reclamation of landscape and employment. This point proposed in the resolution might seem odd within the framework of the privatisation agreement, where this is discussed, but as this history has shown us, this point is completely disrespected and not protected, because, although OKD should create reserves in the privatisation agreement, no one has already checked whether it was created. Today, it turns out that this company has no financial reserves for the downturn of the mine, employment problems and others, and it is turning to the state. Here's the question. Who was supposed to take care of it? Who was supposed to watch it? That is why I think that this point should be mentioned in the resolution and discussed in detail. (d) Efficient use of state ownership and mining rights to yet unladen or upcoming mining sites, where strategic stocks of mineral resources can be dealt with not only by employment, but especially by our energy independence for decades. This is the problem of the důl Frenštát. At the moment preserved, and as I say, 60 million kept in some kind of functional condition, but that may be why OKD revolves around - if I use the term vultures of the financial market, I will not be far from the truth, because these are the billions that are there. It is the right to conquer this raw material and is a prerequisite, at least the last information from the market says that coal prices will go up, especially in Germany, and the reduction in the production of nuclear energy will be a recovery in coal mining. (e) The future of workers in health-exploiting professions to an extent that prevents their possible further employment by means of an accelerated amendment to the pension law in order to allow for an earlier retirement for all employees concerned in accordance with international standards defining heavy work. This is the basic problem faced by employees of OKD. Their medical condition does not allow rapid re-training or any re-training for other activities at all. The media had a short notic that miners would requalify themselves to programmers. The unknown may have been pleased, but among the miners, it caused such a storm that I would like to hear the words that went out of their mouths, and who knows a little bit of computer science, in my opinion, is even able to imagine what the word programmer means and what a miner with ten years of practice in the shaft is capable of doing this activity. I think it is time to return here, and that is why it is a task that this House should impose on the government to re-examine the categorization of employees according to international standards. And we should look for a way not only for miners, but for all those who work, for example, in the chemical industry or in other fields that really explode the health in order to allow them to retire earlier, and to compensate for the health deficiencies caused by the profession, especially in the tendencies of moving into retirement. (f) Urgent and effective measures which will lead to a long-term, time-defined distribution of the decline in mining in OKD under the guidance and control of the State so as not to prevent the acquisition of existing stocks of coal, non-refundable disposal of unclaimed mining works. This point has already been mentioned here by my previous speakers. I just want to point out that once again, it will be very difficult to extract an unhinged shaft, and it is a great pity for the Czech state to lose these minerals. At the same time, it is also a future for people who live from this work. And if we fail to establish clearly the criteria for how we should proceed, it will end very badly with our mining. In point (f), we propose the use of funds from the auction of emission allowances to address the issue of Czech energy. [[correct g]] Of course, the answer to these questions can be: Where will we take it? But these are precisely the means that should be used for this, and that is why we are asking the government to take a look at this matter. Points (h) and (i) which are in this resolution concern the re-evaluation of Government Resolution No 827 of October 19, 2015, so called. mining limits. But I do know that the government is dealing with this point. The second point (i) concerns the Government resolution 405 of 11 May 2016, which has already been decided by the Government, and therefore in this resolution that was tabled last year, it is no longer relevant, and if it were to vote on individual points, I would like to dismiss this point. But, of course, it is nothing against anything if it were to be voted as a whole, so, of course, this point has already been fulfilled by the government in the past and is therefore irrelevant. 3. It asks the Government of the Czech Republic to instruct the competent executive authorities to clarify the activities which led to the property losses of the Czech State in the privatisation of OKD and according to the findings it has filed a criminal report. Of course, dealing with the past is also necessary. As for the general thing we would ask of the government, we have more detailed work to do. To this end, it is necessary to clarify: (a) who decided and tasked a representative of the State in the institutions of the undertaking to vote on the reduction of OKD's capital in favour of the National Property Fund, which, as a result, resulted in a loss of State influence in society. The history of OKD has already been mentioned here many times, and I think this is a point that could say which of the National Property Fund, which suddenly suffers from memory loss, and if you read the statements of many of its workers, it will probably be amnesia permanent, it would be worth exploring. (b) Who decided and subsequently carried out the transfer of shares in OKD to municipalities in order to recover those shares after a period of time, through a firm suspected to have acted against the interests of the State. That's the point that the previous speakers mentioned here too, that's how it actually happened that suddenly they were bought out of the market by the municipality's shares and actually to the detriment of the state by the company that the state tasked and paid to buy it for him. This is a point that may be central in the second sale, which was mentioned here and which aimed at some here sitting at the same time in this hall. (c) Who was responsible for not investigating suspicions of illegal financial operations in the privatisation of OKD. Since everything in this history of OKD is not only caused by the so many times quoted Prime Minister, but by the history of the Czech governments. And the information was penetrating on the outside, let it apply to the banking sector, let it apply to Swiss investigators and others, yet these suspicions that money was being laundered, that there was a capital drain, that they were not being investigated, even in my opinion artificially, were thrown under the feet and defended by the examination, because there was no translation of material that came from abroad, and so on. I think that most of you who are dealing with this a little bit, you know what I'm dealing with at this point. And it's just startling, I don't want to say that it could have been intentional, but it's striking that the authorities that are supposed to be saving this matter haven't progressed. Was it a political assignment, was it negligence, laziness? I don't know. [[18.00 hours]] (e) Who caused the failure to meet the legitimate expectations of tenants regarding the housing fund of the OKD. This point has been widely discussed here, and I will therefore no longer return to this point. 4. In conclusion, the sentence in this resolution is: We demand the government of the Czech Republic to ensure the mapping of the financial flows in the accounts of interested persons, relatives of these persons and companies associated with these persons, who participated directly or indirectly in the privatisation of OKD. Because the question is obvious. Who did it for? Today we know that it did not benefit the Czech state. And if we are to seek intent and intent, it cannot be separated from the financial benefits that might have been associated with it. The state should have, and in my opinion, sufficient technical and material resources to check the history of the financial flows associated with persons who historically participated in the privatisation of OKD. Yes, it can be difficult, it can be impossible. I get that someone's gonna tell me I can't right now. But I would like the words "can't" and "we don't have a chance to investigate" came from the proper authorities in writing that, in the current state, we have done everything we can to find out whether or not someone has benefited financially, but we can't find out. Then perhaps this document, which will come in this way, can be seen as a certain dot to determine whether or not someone had benefited from it. This is one of the possible basic points that could shed some light on the history, and at least contribute to making sure that we understand at least a little bit about what led to it and why that led to it. At the end of my performance, allow me the words of a representative of the miners, a unionist. We talked two hours about how they felt about the situation. The conclusion is quite simple: Please, just hold us. We want to work, we want to make money, we want the life of our family, and this if you take away from us, we don't know what we're going to do. Ostrava is a region, the Ostrava-Carvin region is one of the regions most affected by unemployment. These people do not have a chance to successfully cope with the sectors in which there is labour demand. And if we don't look for social programs and we don't deal with this situation, it's going to be very bad for these people. Therefore, at the end of my speech, with the fact that, of course, I also ask you to support this resolution, which could shed some light on this issue, but especially on your opening points, it could address the situation of mining in the future, so that you can support this with the idea that it is not money, but it is mainly the people who work in those shafts, who live from that coal and who depend on the hard work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u13	I thank Mr Leo Luzar for his speech. Before I give the floor to the technical notes of František Laudát and Josef Hájek, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. He apologizes for reasons of work until the end of today's meeting of Milan Šarapatka and from 18 o'clock for health reasons Vojtěch Adam. Mr František Laudát's point of view and then Mr Hájek's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u14	Thank you. I wanted to invite Minister Pelikán here to express himself, because I think the House does not have to settle. If Mr Hájek has such suspicions in the case of OKD, that is what the Ministry of Finance and their Statute are for, that is why the Ministry of Justice and their highest factor is for them to act. It seems very absurd to me when the House is to call upon, and even by the mouth of the coalition MP, for ministers to do something. If you have any suspicions, there are a lot of things that are going on here, I think it should be targeted rather than politically directed to the police. If you're really so sure about this, then it's really supposed to be the police. I don't even know, because this isn't my topic, I'm not drowning in an investigation into the past. I'm afraid it doesn't ring a bell yet. When we talk about strategic matters, strategic matters nowadays are not all coals, they are not strategic raw materials. From what is and could touch Ostrava, such a strategic raw material on the European Union list, the critical strategic raw material is coking coal, which is reality. Of course, I would like the government to take more effective and better steps for Ostrava, but realize that, as far as I know, Ostrava has the most small entrepreneurs somewhere in past statistics. And unfortunately, what you could do, the social-business social cushion, is, despite the repressive laws here, you're unfortunately arguing that you're destroying this pillow before it can develop, but it always works right where it's bad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u15	Ambassador, thank you for keeping the time. And before I give the floor to Mr Josef Hájek on a point of fact, I will ask my colleagues again to remain calm. Very seriously. Let us remember that we really started last June, we would like to finish this, and I think that you can have debates outside this topic in the foyer. Mr Josef Hájek's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u16	Mr President, I will be brief. The first thing I would clarify or add, the incriminating words were not uttered by the Minister of Finance Kalousek, but by Mr Kalousek, I will then adjust it in the screen record, because at that time the Minister of Finance, I dropped it, the administrative government, Janota. And the second thing, I'd react, even though it's not right, to the words of František Laudát, and I think it's my right. Tunneling OKD takes many years, and I think it should not have a mandate, but it really is our right, and if the House decides that way and I convince you, I would like the resolution to support the very steps I have been talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u17	I thank Mr Josef Hájek. We will continue with the debate. So, before Mrs Halíková, Mr Laudát's point of fact is one more time, and then a speech with the rapporteur's priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u18	Thank you, one more time. Why, through the President, Mr Hájek, do your ministers not act? He's been sitting there for three years. I don't think I know what day it was when this government got the mandate. Why aren't they working? Is that what they need a resolution for? They may have promised some loyalty, something they got at the castle, some decrees, they have to serve the interests of this republic, and they have to, therefore, if it is such a sure thing, and I would really like Mr. Pelikán and Babiš here to say why they are not doing it. Isn't there an institution representing the state in property matters? Why did Mrs. Arajma or the deputy who's there for the people, now I've lost my name, so why aren't they doing it? If property was stolen there, and I don't know what it's all about, in my opinion, I'm not defending myself that you want to settle like this, but here you can see for yourself how you've been covering your transport minister, how long you've spent building up a D47 examination so he doesn't choose how you treat D8 - I hope we can finally get to it tomorrow. I really must scream here for Mr. Took to publish his analysis. Crazy every day he says something different, and there's hundreds of millions running in there, nobody's responsible for anything. Measure everyone and always take the same subway. But I don't know, if I was the minister, I wouldn't be acting like this. And, of course, it's Mr. Hájek's opinion, but I keep saying, why do we have to talk about it? You promised a different policy, so do it. On the fair side, openly, and your ministers, if you're so sure, let them finally take action. He's been sitting here for three years, silent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u19	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. One more point in fact, Mr. Hájek. Mr rapporteur, you have signed up with priority rights. There is a factual comment by Mr Hájek, colleague Lorencová, and then the rapporteur's priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u20	I'm sorry. I certainly don't want to delay, but the point is that there's really been a new reality. New facts that occurred this year, because with RPG flats, subsequently Asental, and, as I said, in 2011, there was an arbitration court which stated that the transfers were within the property group NWR. While we suspect today, or I suspect that the other transfers that have now been made this year already indicate that the assets are not within the RPG group, which is a breach of the privatisation agreement, Article 76 (b). (d) which has prohibited sales to a third party which has prohibited the sale of up to 5%. So from that title, it's a new thing. Of course, I think our ministers are working. But now the new incentive that is, of course, they have a full agency of work. But if the House gives them anything, I think it should come first in terms of priorities, if it has the House's mandate. Therefore, I would ask you once again to support this and, therefore, indeed, the House can better control the performance of this possible task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u21	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Lorencová's point of view. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to respond to Mr Laudát, a question. Why is he asking us? Through Mr President. Why is he asking us? After all, these were right-wing political parties sitting here in the early 1990s when what was called wild privatization was launched. And when was privatized OKD? In a scandalous way, in an incredible way. And in fact, all those steps, what we are witnessing today, even the privatization of apartments, these are the consequences, these are the consequences of your policy, Mr. MP, Mr. Answer us! Don't ask us questions. We're asking you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u23	Thank you. And the question reached Mr Laudát through me. A colleague of Mr Laudát has rejoined his point of fact, so I am giving it to him. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u24	I confess I'm not asking my colleague Lorencová. I ask my colleague Hájek why your ministers are not doing so. Why aren't they working? So let them take action. I'm just saying, why aren't you doing it? Why are you covering up the D8? What are you doing as a nation? You're doing some simple training here. So start doing something. Why aren't they working? I don't turn to absent ministers. And if it's so important, why isn't he sitting here? Both of you? Your Member, Minister Pelikán, has been invited here. Babiš has property. Then why aren't they doing anything? So let them take action. I don't want anything else. I wasn't sitting here in the '90s. I'm sorry. It's exactly the same if I said you're now responsible for what's going on in traffic engineering. What's going on at the ŘSD?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u25	Please get to the point. Especially in factual notes, let us not deal with transport. We'll deal with it next time. There. The rapporteur's priority right now - Mr Marek Černoch. A colleague Halíková will be ready. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u26	Thank you so much for your word. You're surprised that people are disgusted by politics. But when they watch this, I don't blame them at all, those people. I don't blame them at all, because this farce that really takes decades and doesn't actually end. Is anyone responsible for this? Tens of billions of crowns disappeared. Is anyone responsible for this? There are co-workers here who have been on the force. You must open a knife in your pocket, gentlemen and ladies. Because if someone steals a little something today, they're in danger of jail or going to jail. The last government fell because the police flew in. They scattered it for the purses. This is tens of billions, and nothing's happening. It's okay. Is it your fault or your fault or... I agree with colleague Hájek, what he said, because there really are two ways. It's about people on one side and about some justice on the other. It's not about money, it's about justice. Because if people want them to follow the law and they want them to do it, then how is it possible that these people show that justice and laws apply only to someone? Is it really that hard to understand? And if Prime Minister Sobotka, at the time he was Minister of Finance, was signing privatisation and was unable to prove that he was not guilty or that it was not his fault, his fault, political error or even criminal, there is something wrong here. There's really nothing going on for decades. Do it or let's do something. And if ministers are on their own, as Mr Laudát says, which, of course, they should be, because that is what ministers are from, or from that are the components to be dealt with, or if it is some resolution that the Chamber of Deputies will adopt as a souvenir and as an institution that should really say "yes, we want you to obey the laws, and we ourselves will demand that the laws be observed by everyone," then it probably doesn't matter. But in some way, it should just be handled from my point of view, because otherwise, if nothing happens any further, the miners will come, they will come before the government. What will you do, Prime Minister? You gonna call the police on them? What are you gonna do? Can you blame these people? Have you been there? We were there. And the situation is really serious. As my colleague Hájek said, it is true. How's the miner gonna be an IT guy? What will companies do if they go bankrupt because they're connected in some way, connected to mining, and that mining will just end. And it's not just Ostrava. We dealt with it six months ago. We also talked about Usteck. My colleague Schwarz and I were on the radio. And he's right. There's a lot of kauz. But let's move it forward so that the case of OKD is resolved. To help people. And to help justice. Fall for who?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u27	Thank you. I will ask my colleague Halíková to be patient because we have two factual points - Mrs Chalupa and Mrs Lorencová. Mr Chalupa has the floor on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u28	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, if I'm listening to this, I can't help but think that - look at the benches, who sits here today and who perceives the things we're dealing with. Because I feel like a lot of us, as long as it doesn't involve us personally, we're taking this as a theoretical problem somewhere far away from us, and we just don't feel like our problem. Those people who lost their apartments, that's really a problem, because I can imagine what kind of situation these people are in. I agree with what Mr. Černoch here said. And I am really quite impressed by the courage of a number of colleagues who are talking about the public interest here, in some way training our President here - and this is not a public interest? This isn't an abuse of power? You're worried that somebody's gonna use their powers to do bad things, and that was what? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u29	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mrs Lorencová, also on the factual point and Mrs Birke after. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u30	Mr President, colleagues, I just want to give a few facts. Sometime back in 1992, the federal government adopted a resolution by which it undertook new owners of privatized property to give priority to those who live in apartments to be sold to them through municipalities. The original number of flats involved was 170 grand. You hear me well. All of a sudden, we're at the number 144,000 that's left OKD. Where did the difference in the number of apartments go? Well, some companies did obey the government's order at the time. I'll remind you of the mines and the Chamberlains' customizations. How is it possible that this company actually allowed the residents of the apartments to become their owners? How is it possible that other companies, e.g. OKD, they didn't allow that? I think that's one of the things we should be going back to because there was a valid government regulation that wasn't followed by companies that privatized property.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u31	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Now, Mr Birke also made a point of fact. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Well, I'd like to respond to a colleague - now I've lost my name - the Chalupa, I've already remembered. So, Mr Chalupa, through Mr President, I have overlooked you, you are smaller. I don't like the fact that you've been grilling my chairman, my boss, the whole time. If you feel this is a mess, go outside, file a criminal report because you have no proof. You have no proof! You have no proof. And when you have it, it's handled by the police, the law enforcement authorities. Me as mayor of the city - don't point at me, behave yourself. I'm just saying -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u33	Address the Members through me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u34	Through Mr President - when you have the proof, the authorities will decide accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u35	Thank you. Colleague Chalupa - also a factual remark. My colleague Halíková is asking for patience. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u36	Thank you for the floor. So we'll get to that tomorrow at 9 o'clock, and we'll talk about reorganizing the police.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u37	Thank you. Now a factual comment by my colleague Ondráček and then by my colleague Birke. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I'd be quite happy if my coalition colleagues didn't rip up their IDs here as you argue. I have to say here - and I will be here in the hearing room, not listening elsewhere, because as a former law enforcement authority, I am opening a knife in my pocket, as the rapporteur said. I think that if the law enforcement authorities, the particular investigators who dealt with the case, were deprived of confidentiality and could and would talk that we might be surprised here a lot.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u39	I thank my colleague Ondráček. Now, my colleague Birke makes a point of fact. We can therefore continue with the debate by speaking to Mrs Milada Halíková. A colleague of Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u40	Thank you, Mr President. This Chamber of Deputies and fellow Members, Mr Prime Minister, has been discussing another serious case relating to the privatisation of the State's minority stake in the 2004 OKD, which has had a serious impact on the current situation of citizens in our Moravian-Silesian region. I'm very sorry that from the last -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u41	My colleague, I'm going to interrupt you and ask the other colleagues for some peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u42	I am very sorry that six months have passed since the last time this point came to the House's meeting, without anything serious happening since then. Let me just remind you what has already gone away here, namely that together with the mining company, the new private owner acquired 44,000 apartments in which he lives to this day, colleagues, over 100,000 citizens, especially in our Moravian-Silesian region, but also in the north of Bohemia, even though at present, if you were our cities, where the gros of these flats is, it means Havířov, Karvina, Ostrava, passed through, you will see several empty windows in each house, several empty apartments, and on the main streets empty non-residential spaces, from which, as a result of the rents provided by this private owner, you will simply leave the individual businessmen. That's when the private owner got the apartments for real. We've heard the numbers here - 30 to 40 grand on average, depending on the size of the housing unit. At that time, a commitment to transfer the apartments to the tenants at a discounted price was included in the share sale agreement. The State signed a contract with Carbon Invest in September 2004, but already in November became the new owner of the investment group RPG Industries entrepreneur Zdeněk Bakala. This led the apartments to the real estate company RPG apartments, which raised the already justified concerns of the tenants, how the apartments will be treated further and what will happen to the tenants. Zdeněk Bakala originally promised that the apartments would actually be sold to tenants on preferential terms. It's not a phrase, it's not a fiction. I, ladies and gentlemen, was then at the head of the Havíř Town Hall, a city with nearly 100,000 inhabitants at the time, and I was at the meeting with Mr Bakala. I know what he promised on his first visit to the city and what he was talking about. But later he said that no such thing, no such public promise actually gave, and he denied what he had promised originally. It's really not my impression. We can also read this in the justification of the judgment of the Prague Municipal Court in Zdeněk Bakala's dispute with the current foreign minister Mr. Zaorálk, who then called the entrepreneur a crook. He complained about him and the court ruled on this matter. Let me say that we have repeatedly pointed out to the Chamber of Deputies on the issue of housing transfers and that the House adopted a resolution in 2009 recommending, among other things, to the Government to submit a proposal for interim measures to owners of flats RPG Industries, respectively. The RPG apartments were imposed a ban on the handling of the apartments in question, which otherwise allowed the alleged 2004 contract, where it was mentioned that these flats should be sold preferably to tenants under the terms of the contract. What was actually mentioned in the treaty, we have already heard today, and we have not yet been published, and we have also heard the call that I am joining, so that we can learn what was really in the treaty and how the negotiations were really going then. If you think, ladies and gentlemen, that Mr Bakala did not at least refuse to pay a fine, for him negligible probably 30 miles. CZK for breach of contractual terms for the division of OKD and the separation of apartments into real estate company, then we are together on a deep mistake. Nope. I could list tens, maybe hundreds of negotiations on this issue, but it's just history today, that's not what this is about. Last autumn, Mr. Bakala, his business group sold RPG flats. However, the circumstances were so unclear that a number of considerations arose as to whether they were just fictitious sales. Anyway, it was one of the steps Mr. Bakala wanted to take out of all his commitments. Profits from the OKD this entrepreneur shredded, debts threw under the state's feet through the buyer of the mining company, but the golden egg of the housing fund either cashed out or kept them through intermediaries. Which of the options is valid, I dare not say, but probably not many people know at the moment. [[18.30 hours]] While Prime Minister Sobotka then called this business a great moral and business failure, that is true, but it is in any case little. The tenants, the hundred thousand people plus minus, this statement is definitely not gonna help. The social impact on our severely tested region is not only the end of mining, the release of miners and the threat to thousands of jobs in downstream operations, but also the housing situation of these people and everything that this has to do with it. I warned the House about what might happen at the time when the single-sided rent increase law came to an end. Please remember those of you who have been sitting here for two parliamentary periods back in these benches. I was talking about it, and not only I, that it may happen that some private owners will start increasing the rent disproportionately in the apartments and that it will also affect the state's finances in the form of payment of other social benefits, especially the housing supplement and housing contribution. What is today's situation, we know and we have heard it repeatedly here and from the mouth of the current Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Of course, it is not only about apartments for mining pensioners or about contributions for these people, but also about other tenants not only in OKD apartments, but practically throughout the Republic. As Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, we did not put our hands in the lap even then, as they say, but we prepared a bill on unilateral rent increases to prevent speculative high rents, but at the same time to ensure a reasonable profit for owners. I stress - adequate, not usurperous, as we witness today. But the House rejected this bill. According to his opponents, everything needed to be resolved by the new Civil Code. How? That's what we all see today. Perhaps some of you, esteemed colleagues, will additionally recognize that at that time's bill was not only about protecting tenants, but also about protecting the economic interests of the state and, after all, the labour market. After all, high rents make it impossible for workers to move and drive them into the arms of mortgages for decades to secure ownership. Losing a job with a decent salary, however, can literally mean tragedy for individual families. The seminar of the V4 country, which took place in Prague last year, dealt very closely with this issue and, among other things, discussed huge differences in comparison of income in our country and in neighbouring countries, e.g. in Germany. Let's face it, it's not just about having any job, it's about making a living where people can earn at least basic living needs, and the fact that they belong to housing is probably clear to all of us. The problems of the Moravian-Silesian Region cannot therefore be reduced only to how to help outgoing miners with benefits or early retirement. Thank you for at least approving this in this House. In January 2015, I sent a written interview on the situation in a private mining company to Minister Mládek and asked, among other things, to support the creation of new jobs or the possibility of more favourable conditions for domestic investors. We already know that the factory cannot be taken away, as was argued in the early 1990s, to support the massive privatisation of state property at the time, but it can be closed if I say so in a simple way. Although Mr Zdeněk Bakala's example shows that an rude businessman can come from anywhere, and even a foreign investor may not be a guarantee of long-term employment for local residents. Dear colleagues, I would like to conclude by saying that today, and not only today, there have been a number of facts and also a number of calls to the address of our current Prime Minister. And so allow me to appeal to you, Mr Prime Minister, through Mr President, that you should finally tell the truth as it really was with the privatization of OKD and especially with the housing fund. But most importantly, what your government, Prime Minister, will do for citizens, especially in the Moravian-Silesian region. Please specifically. I've had enough of nice words and statements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u43	Good evening, dear colleagues. Thank you, Mrs Halíková. Another duly registered member is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u44	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam, honourable Members, Mr Prime Minister, there have been serious accusations here, and it has also been said that someone has erred morally in his business. But if we look at a normal life, then if a small businessman or a small company fails morally and the employee fails at work, then these people usually have full responsibility for this failure. Unfortunately, the people behind whom is a large property, which they have often acquired in a not entirely honest way, bear nothing, only perhaps only the moral contempt of society, but they don't really care. I want to stop at two parts of this problem, and the first is the sale of those flats, the problem of expert opinions. If the apartments were transferred at a price that did not correspond to the actual value and if the entire property of OKD was privatised at a price that did not correspond to the real price, that is to say, there has been a distortion of expert judgement, then, among other things, the State should ask for compensation from those who made expert opinions for government decision-making. Another thing is, if the government has committed a company in the privatisation agreement to transfer apartments at favourable prices to tenants, then it is necessary to say how the government or governments have enforced compliance with this contractual condition and how the transfer of this obligation to legal successors of companies that have benefited from OKD assets over the years, from privatisation, say until last year. [[18.40 hours]] There's also one thing. Each mining company is obliged to spend or make money for extracted minerals on a special account, on a mining down payment account. I would like to ask both the Prime Minister and, if necessary, the Minister of Industry and Trade, how much coal has been extracted from the time of privatisation until now and how much money should have been on that mining bill. How large should this amount be and whether it was at all? And how he treated the National Property Fund, or the government that prepared the privatisation contract, so that the transfer of this obligation would also be enshrined in legal succession, i.e. even for companies that started, as individual owners changed. Then it wouldn't be possible for a company to come here with the fact that it needs more money to bring down the mining, because it isn't actually able to ensure the continuation of the mining. It must have been a small amount. I would very much like to hear how much money was supposed to be in a special mining down payment account. It was also said here that in 2009 the House adopted a resolution by which it undertook the government to implement the article of the treaty which I suppose none of us has, but the government certainly has it and has access to it that the apartments will be transferred to the tenants. If this resolution was, then the government had to ensure that this treaty was fulfilled. Did the government or governments at that time enforce this resolution, and in what way? These are things I think that should be answered, just as these amounts should be made public for the decline of mining, or information about who processed these expert opinions and how the government, if any, tried to find out why the company's price was so low and the price for the flats in question was so low. So please, if it were possible to answer the questions that I have asked here, then I think it would be good for this debate and for a possible resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u45	I thank Mr Hovorka. With the factual remark of Mrs Jana Lorencová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u46	Mr President, colleagues, it does not give me this, I have to respond to it, now to Mr Hovorka. He was talking about the price at which the apartments were sold. The principle is different. Those apartments should never have been part of the privatized property of OKD. That's the crucial principle. The apartments became part of the privatisation only because they were labeled service apartments, so they could happen in accordance with the then adopted Law on Great Privatization, which binding those who went into the great privatisation, to privatise only the assets with which they would enter into business. And flats are not the subject of mining business. That's nonsense. So, Mr President, that is the essence of the OKD housing dispute. Apartments should never be part of property privatized as property OKD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u47	Thank you, colleague. With another factual remark, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, followed by Mr Josef Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u48	Thank you for the floor. Madam President, yes, you are right. Flats, hospitals, things that didn't relate to direct business, i.e. mining, they weren't supposed to be part of privatized property. If so, then someone had to doubt the National Property Fund, the people, or the team of people who prepared the contracts and the documents for the government's decision-making. And maybe here, too, we could hear who prepared the specific contracts and who so disadvantagedly prepared the housing fund and the hospital to privatize. That's right. The apartments did not really relate to the business of the company and neither the hospital nor should they ever be privatized. And someone has a particular responsibility. Apart from the government at that time, of course, the people who prepared the contracts in question for the National Property Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u49	I thank Mr Hovorka. With another factual remark, Mr Josef Hájek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u50	Mr President, maybe I, Mr Hovorka... [[President: by me]] ... through Mr President, you mentioned something that I criticised in my speech. And the thing is, you mix two things. This means the upper law only deals with the creation of reserves on so-called. Asanation and reclamation. That means, that's what they call it. excavation of mining damage, i.e. that the subterranean mining causes a change of relief, terrain, which has to be subsequently recovered, possibly bought out or repaired by family houses. But unfortunately, the contract signed in 2004 did not address the creation of reserves for the decline of mining activity, which means that sometimes you need to requalify the miners, you have to give them severance payments, which, for example, were promised up to 12 months, and you have to spend the resources to close the shaft. Each shaft has a hundred kilometers of corridors. This is a challenging process where there is water, where there is methane, which will actually stand at the closing of the shafts of several billions. And I blame the fact that these costs were not really included. I set an example here with the German company RAG, where I had the opportunity to be several times, and there, for one thing, they did not privatize it, they remained in the state's property, and the state has actually systemically created the conditions for the ten-year closure of the shaft with the program "we will provide work for every miner"." That means it was a complex of technical measures. During those ten years, they created companies whose proceeds will finance the subsequent costs of methane capture, water pumping. Because shutting down those shafts isn't gonna end up costing the state. Those costs will be further on the drawing of water, security, monitoring, etc. That's millions, millions a year. So that's the mistake I was blaming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u51	Thank you, honourable Member. With a point of fact, Mr Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u52	Thank you for the floor. I agree with my colleague, Mr President, with your previous speaker. Yes. I am aware that the upper law deals with the mining fund. Yes, I understand. And one thing is the existing law, and the other thing is the contract. How the privatisation contract was concluded. If this has not been dealt with in a privatisation project, this is the failure of the then National Property Fund, specific officials and possibly people responsible for materials submitted to the government. And it needs to be the subject of this current negotiation, so that this is revealed, so that this information is given. If you look at a similar case from the Czech Republic, if foreign courts dealt with it, then the former managers were able to condemn it. But this would probably have to be brought to the foreign courts, because I doubt that our courts would have acted differently in this matter than in the case of the mining company from northern Bohemia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u53	I thank Mr Hovorka. With a point of fact, Mr Fiedler. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u54	Yes, my colleague Hovorka said it exactly, and I totally agree with that. We must be funny and funny abroad how we don't know how to work things out in our own home. It is 18.49, at the hour of fifty different Members convey their views and views on a point called Government Information. And the government is keeping us silent for an hour. When we discussed this in June, we did not come to any reasonable conclusion because the Prime Minister's entrée, as we know, was a long speech about nothing. He didn't even come forward dneska to answer the questions he asked. [[18.50 hours]] I think it was a colleague of the Černoch who urged the Prime Minister to release the audio recording, audio recording from which we would learn a lot, just as we must not know what was in that business contract, which is secret - why? I still expect the Prime Minister to answer Markův's question whether he's willing to publish it or not. Apparently, a colleague knows more about it, if that's what the record is. Why don't we know? Why here an hour and a half, an hour and fifty Members say their views, and the government, in turn, the Prime Minister, who is genuinely concerned, is very silent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u55	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Mr René Číp is also duly enrolled in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u56	Mr President, colleagues, it is quite obvious that the way in which OKD assets were privatised in the past was bad, rather bad, much has already been said today. The sale contract was concluded quickly and without any guarantees as to how the property will be handled in the future, not only with a part of the company operating in the mining industry, but also with the housing fund. This is a widely known fact that no one can deny. Now I would like to draw you closer to who we are actually discussing and what the reasons are, why this problem must not only be solved, but also in a reasonable way. The Czech Republic has approximately 10 550 thousand. population. The current problems of OKD directly affect about half a percent of our country's citizens. These are employees and families of employees of OKD or subcontractors dependent on the activities of this company and income from it. And that's definitely not a small number. And they are also citizens of living flats that were in the past property of OKD and on which the residents had decrees and were to become their property under the conditions presented in the conclusion of the privatisation contract. Just try to imagine all these citizens, including the children together, and I believe that at this point, few would be able to say that this is a problem only for this company or these people and the state should not interfere. Fortunately, we are not in that position, as there is an effort to find a suitable solution, but let us draw this closer. Moravian-Silesian region with a population of more than 1.2 miles. Today, it ranks third among the regions and lives here as a percentage of about 11.5 percent of our country's population. As far as economic performance is concerned, the Moravian-Silesian Region has been involved in national GDP in recent years between 10 and 11 percent and there is a clear decline in GDP in the regionally significant coal mining sector, which is, fortunately, partly offset by the growth of gross value added in the motor vehicle production sector and also by the development of new industrial zones. Unemployment in the Moravian-Silesian Region is now around 7,5 percent according to the methodology currently applied. OKD itself has about 10 grand today. supply companies and companies have their own employees and several thousand other employees. The average wage in the Moravian-Silesian Region is roughly 26,000. CZK a month, which ranks it among the average in the Czech Republic. The median is, of course, significantly lower and is around CZK 22,500 per month gross wages. If we realize that the income of mining workers is above these averages, because their hard work is due to higher remuneration, while taking into account that their income is dependent on family members, we can easily imagine what would follow the complete cessation of mining. The purchasing power in the Moravian-Silesian region would decrease considerably - I will not speculate on the exact figures here now, because these estimates would not be supported, but for our region it would be an unfair blow to the back. At that point, citizens would be clearly dependent on social aid from the state that is being offered, but this solution is not ideal, so logically there would be further pressure to leave the region and also to reduce salaries in other areas. That's impossible to admit. I believe that the whole Republic has a great commitment to the Moravian-Silesian Region, because it was the Moravian-Silesian Region, namely Severomoravský, which was before, and especially after the establishment of the Czechoslovak Republic, where heavy industry and the citizens of the country lived and worked in a significant way through their work on the development of the whole country. They paid a considerable tax for this in the form of worse living conditions, as the heavy industry carried with it a greater degree of pollution of the environment, and thus a logically and shorter average life span and its quality. The problem of OKD itself has been said and written many words. Yes, it is necessary to assess all the steps that have led to the current situation and to hold his culprits accountable. But it is quite a priority for people to address the future, because it is the essential thing. And that is the duty of politicians, and that is what citizens expect of us. The key now is for the government, the entire House and the political representation to take steps so that the Moravian-Silesian region can develop further and citizens consider it a good place to live. Therefore, I appeal to the Government to do everything in its power to ensure the future of the mining industry in the Moravian-Silesian Region with its gradual downturn according to the state of economically exploitable coal reserves, since at the moment there is no other real alternative that could replace any rapid end to this industry. If the government decided to use part of the government's budget surplus for this last year, so that this money was not invested, and it could partly help people who had put political representation's previous decisions in very difficult situations, I believe that it would certainly find broad support in the Chamber of Deputies across the political spectrum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u57	Thank you, Mr Číp. On the other hand, Mrs Lorencová's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u58	So I will not rest today, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. She was the so-called one back then. Great privatization, wild privatization, suit virtually everyone. Or almost everyone. I would just like to remind my colleagues on the right of me in the hall at a time in which their member, Mr Tošenovský, was the captain of northern Moravia. This Mr Tošenovský was a member of the Supervisory Board of OKD, Bakalovy already OKD, with a salary of three million a year. I don't know how much he got, maybe something went sideways, but three million. If the governor, who is a longtime member of the ODS, is now representing us in the European Union, this person received three million from Bakala for membership of the Supervisory Board. In order not to be sorry to my colleagues on the left, even the trade unionists came to their own. Even the unions had their deputies there, even with a million-dollar income. Not three million, but a million. So the way it all worked out, we'd have to dig deep enough to get to the truth and the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u59	And the last point of fact -- it's almost 7:00. Chairman Kalousek. Please, Mr President, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u60	I understand that this topic is important and that it is appropriate when the House discusses it and takes a picture of it. But if you, colleagues, want to enjoy it, excuse me, a bit of an intriguing list, it has been quite a popular topic for you lately, who somehow made a living on the OKD, so you should not forget your leader in the Euro-Candidate of Mr Telička, who undoubtedly collected many times more from Mr Bakala than the entire former Governor Tošenovský. But it's a little below discussion. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-004-282.u61	Thank you to President Kalousek. The 19th hour is approaching, and under the agreement of the Presidents of the MPs, I am interrupting this item Government information on the process of disadvantageous privatisation of OKD by Thursday 19. 1st at 18 o'clock, when we will continue on this point. I wish you a good evening, and I interrupt this meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we will continue with the law returned by the President of the Republic. Thank you and have a good evening.
