ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u1	260. Government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (the Electronic Communications Act), as amended, and Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended /house print 1053/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, who is the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr Jiří Valenta, take the position of the rapporteur on behalf of the appellant. The amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 1053/3, which was delivered on 28 April 2017. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 1053/4. And now I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. He's interested. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at third reading, we are discussing a bill amending the law on electronic communications and the law on Czech Television. As has already been said during the first and second readings, the reason for the processing of this law is to ensure and implement the process of transition to a new, spectrally more efficient standard of digital television broadcasting, so-called. DVB-T2, as part of the implementation of the strategy for the development of terrestrial digital television, which was approved by the Czech Government last year. The transition to this new format is a way for the rapid and timely release of the 700 MHz radio frequency band in accordance with the relevant Decision of the European Parliament and of the Council. The choice to switch to DVB-T2 is the most efficient and socially safe way to ensure this European decision from the point of view of the sustainability of free terrestrial television broadcasting for the Czech Republic and Czech citizens. Furthermore, the bill contains aspects strengthening consumer protection in the field of electronic communications and the position of the Czech Telecommunications Authority in the field of regulation. The draft law was discussed by the Economic Committee, which is also a guarantee committee. I would like to thank you for the rather broad debate that has taken place on this committee. The Economic Committee dealt with the amendments, rejected the proposal to return the law to second reading, but did not recommend the adoption of the law as a whole. On this point, I would like to say that no Member voted against this bill, there were 6 Members for its adoption and 6 abstentions. With regard to the topics that opened the Czech Association of Satellite Operators' campaign, let me also comment on them. In particular, this association challenges and challenges the proposed process of switching to a new format of digital broadcasting and cost compensation to the providers of such broadcasting, which will have a transition with this enforced - I note forced - transition. First of all, it should be stressed that the satellite platform is a direct competitor of terrestrial digital broadcasting, which is free of charge for citizens. It is therefore their commercial interest to distort the current state and balance of the television market and to gain the maximum of its commercial advantage. This is therefore clearly a competitive struggle, an attempt to deprive Czech households of the only free television platform. On the issue of public aid, I must state that the adoption of the bill itself does not constitute public aid, but lays down rules under which public aid may be granted where appropriate. The draft law explicitly contains a guarantee in order not to pay the unlawful aid, i.e. it will only be possible to pay the costs effectively and effectively incurred only on successful proceedings before the European Commission. Here I would like to quote § 27 para. 5 of the proposed Electronic Communications Act in connection with the adjustment of remuneration for the cost effectively and effectively incurred by holders of authorisations to use radio frequencies. The text reads: If, in relation to the reimbursement of the costs effectively incurred and effectively, as referred to in paragraph 1, proceedings are conducted before the Commission on public aid, a reference procedure shall be deemed to be a reference for a preliminary ruling. The explanatory memorandum then explains that the question referred for a preliminary ruling under the Administrative Rules is intended. Paragraph 64 provides that the administrative authority may suspend administrative proceedings if a preliminary ruling is pending. New version of the provisions of § 29 para. 5 of the Act on Electronic Communications following Section 64 of the Administrative Code was incorporated into this amendment of the Act in order to create a procedural framework corresponding to the Czech rule of law. The primary law of the European Union, which is directly applicable, prohibits Member States from implementing public aid measures before its approval by the European Commission. As regards the issue of extending the allocation of radio frequencies, which was one of the other reservations, it is a procedure which must be implemented in administrative proceedings, in accordance with the law. The similar institute was used in the context of the transition from analogue to digital television broadcasting, where broadcasters could request an extension of the period of validity by eight years and could also request a so-called extension of the period of validity. compensation license. For the sake of completeness, I would also like to state that, for reasons of public interest, frequencies for terrestrial television were granted free of charge and, in view of the continuity of terrestrial television broadcasting, it was not expected that these frequencies would be the subject of auction at least until 2030. The decision of the European Parliament and of the Council to release the 700 MHz frequency band also envisages that Member States will take, according to a specific situation, measures to ensure the sustainability of free terrestrial television by at least 2030. [[9.30 hours]] Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I apologise for the long introduction. We are discussing a very complex material, but I believe that everything relevant has been carefully discussed and discussed and nothing prevents the present bill from being adopted at third reading. The consequences of not adopting the bill would be directed against Czech consumers in electronic communications and against Czech viewers who receive free television broadcasting. At the same time, this would threaten the future and sustainability of free television broadcasting in the Czech Republic with possible long-term negative effects on Czech households' spending. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I ask you to adopt this bill.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u3	Thank you, Minister. And now we have some more excuses. Minister Stropnický apologizes today within 10 o'clock for work reasons and apologises to Mrs Dobešová today from 15 o'clock for work reasons. I am now opening a debate to which Mr Leo Luzar is the first to report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u4	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to point out briefly the amendments under D, which I am the creator of. The original Telecommunications Act was declared a law designed to make mobile data cheaper. This has been presented to the public, so the public expects the Members to vote. The aim is to force operators to release competition in the foreseeable future so that customers can act so that the really resulting price for mobile data in the Czech Republic is significantly reduced. Unfortunately, as part of the discussion of this amendment of the law, he focused only on the issue of television broadcasting and, in some way, only marginally mentions the telecommunications, what was promised to citizens. I have prepared the amendments under D, where in D2 and D3 I am trying to open up, a little bit, the competition in the market for the benefit of citizens, in order to reduce the price of mobile data and services. In point D2, I'm trying to unify the deadlines for 30 days for mobile data. The current practice of operators is that some of them give 45 days, some 40 days, some maybe even 50. I'm trying to unify for 30 days, for one calendar month. The Ministry's response is neutral, but the justification states that there is no transitional provision, a transitional period of preparation of operators. I think this is just a proxy problem, because if the transitional period means that I now have 45 days in my automatic statement system, I will reduce to 30, there will be no intervention such that the operator cannot respond in time and shorten this notice period. In point D3, my main concern is to change the negative practice of contract prolongation. I'm sure you're all familiar with this, you know it from experience when you've entered into a two-year commitment contract that automatically extends to you. In point D3, I suggest that it be precisely the opposite, that the operator have to actively speak to you and ask if you really want to continue this prolongation. In my opinion, this point will open up a competitive market between operators, when after that two-year period the fight for you, the customer, will begin for new advantages for you to stay with the existing operator. Therefore, I would like to appeal to points D2 and D3 for your approval. At the same time, I ask the rapporteur to vote on these points separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Pekarová is next in the debate, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to an amendment marked by the letter F, whose author I am and to which the chairman of our MP Michal Kučera signed up at the second reading. During my absence, my colleague Kučera has already justified the amendment. Still, I would like to ask for his support for a short time myself. The purpose of my amendment is to establish a legal obligation according to which Czech Television, as a public media, would broadcast cinematographic works of foreign production, films and series of foreign production created for television broadcasting, which are accompanied by dubbing, also in the original version with subtitles in Czech language. The proposal gives the viewer the option of choosing a choice, which he chooses on his receiver, with which audio accompaniment he will watch the program. So-called "Prime Minister' of the so-called "Donetsk People's Republic'. Czech Television offered dual broadcasts until 2003. Due to increasing demands on image and sound quality, the width of the terrestrial frequency band through which the signal of Czech television is distributed is limited. That's why the dual broadcast is really unavailable today. The transition to the new form of DVB-T2 broadcasting, which the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act regulates, is linked to the savings of the frequency spectrum. This opens up space to reintroduce dual broadcasts. For this reason, I am making a proposal in this very amendment. The change only affects Czech TV, not private companies. I believe that Czech television, as a public media, should fulfil its public service, among other things. even by providing dual broadcasts, which helps to improve the language amenities of viewers, and it is also, of course, more comfortable for some who prefer the original sound, which is usually better. Language amenities are far below the European average in our country. For example, according to a study of the Eurobarometer, only 11 percent of Čech agree, which ranks the Czech Republic on the bottom partitions along with other countries that have a strong tradition in dubbing. We're not much better off with the other languages. On the subject of dual broadcasts, I organized a round table and met with a number of experts. According to representatives of Czech Radio Communications, the transition to DVB-T2 will be technically possible to provide dual broadcasts. Czech television also does not resist dual broadcasting in principle, and it already offers it to satellite viewers to a limited extent today. However, the aim of the proposal is to make this possibility available to viewers who receive free terrestrial broadcasting, which is about 60 percent of households - unfortunately they do not have that option today. The proposal was also consulted in advance with the Ministry of Industry and Trade as well as with the Ministry of Culture. I want to thank both of you for your constructive cooperation. The resulting form of the amendment is precisely a compromise solution which seeks to accommodate all comments from both Czech Television and both ministries. The proposal also has the support of the Guarantee Economic Committee. I have one more thing to say here. I just got a couple of e-mails asking why I don't like dubbing. Of course, I don't mind the dubbing, and my proposal doesn't even have to disturb the ambition of the dubbing. I just want to give the audience a choice. For those who prefer dubbing, nothing will change. For those who prefer the original text with subtitles, then we offer a new option. Dear colleagues, I believe that there will be sufficient support for this change, which will not make the audience feel poorer and, on the contrary, give them more opportunities. I'm begging you here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u7	Thank you, Madame. Mr Kolovratník is now in office. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u8	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I wish you good morning. Much has already been said about this law. It's probably pointless for me to repeat the arguments of the petitioner, the Ministry of Industry. This must be explained and justified for itself, why the amendment proposal is important and why we should accept it today. But I feel obliged to respond and to speak first, because I am the author of two amendments that my colleagues in the Guarantee Economic Committee have supported, and I want to thank them very much for that. I would therefore also like to intercede for the adoption of these amendments. One is already adopted by the Economic Committee at the first hearing and the other is hiding under the letter G and I submitted it to the second reading. Well, that's the first reason for my performance. [[9.40 hours]] The other one I see as relatively fundamental and I see it as a response to, I must say, and I will be honest, from my point of view an unprecedented attack on which I was exposed by satellite operators and certain business interest groups that are interested in this law. I was accused that, together with the Ministry of Industry, I wanted to pass on some huge, perhaps illegal means to terrestrial broadcasters that I was threatening arbitration, or I threatened the Czech Republic with possible arbitrage and so on. It is probably not important to explain everything in detail to you who are not interested in the issue, because our colleagues at the Economic Committee discussed with us very closely. In my argument, I will only rely on what the consumer organization Telephoner has recently sent to all of us. cz. It is beautifully written in the letter, why it is important to accept and not block the novel. This is the first reason, and we are talking about the transition to DVB-T2, i.e. a new way of television broadcasting, if a certain part of the frequency spectrum, as negotiated worldwide, and in the European Union, is released for mobile operators - and here I am returning to my amendment, we agreed that this will be by 1 February 2021 at the latest - we will get a new space, a new frequency for another possible license, for competition, for the entry of a possible new operator into the telephone market. In other words, that's how it's bound. If we are trying to exert pressure on large mobile operators here in various ways, and I do not know if it will be developed, if we push competition through increased limits on fines, I admit that I do not have that opinion myself, I am definitely not convinced about it, so here I say that if we switch to DVB-T2 digital television broadcasting in line with European harmonisation, we are able to release part of the band, so we know that by four years at the latest here we will be very likely to have either a new operator or a new licensee and we are able to stimulate competition in this way. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] Second, I think the crucial argument for adopting the amendment is that we would, and this is needed to be heard out loud, a large part of the population, a large part of the citizens of the Czech Republic really jeopardized the possibility of receiving television broadcasts so-called free-to-air. My opponents in the argument say: TV is not free, we already pay for TV today. Yes, you're right, colleagues, we pay concession fees, whether for television or for radio, but that's it. We all pay by law on the basis of something else. But for the income itself - I'm gonna make it a whole lot easier, the story. If you buy a TV and anywhere you can play it today, whether with a home antenna or with an antenna on the roof, you can catch all the basic programs: Czech TV, Nova, Prima or other commercial channels. I say and argue that if we extend, postpone, do not approve this amendment, so according to the analyses, and I do not want to subpoena the Ministry of Industry, and above all, and it did not say here, the Czech Telecommunications Office, i.e. an independent office and independent regulator, have data, they have clear analyses where they say that theoretically up to 30% of citizens would not have this free-to-air, terrestrial broadcast anymore. And what would happen? What would happen is that their only choice would be to receive television from the satellite, through paid services for a monthly fee. And so I ask all of you, colleagues, if that's what you want to do. If you want to answer that in front of the citizens, that part of the population just took away the possibility of what we're used to. It is also historically given the connection to receive or receive television free of charge, free of charge, forgive me for the layman's expression, out of the air, without any fees. I'm gonna cut my act short, or I'm gonna react if there's another debate going on here. A number of arguments are prepared, which clearly states that by adopting this law, we do not constitute unlawful aid, but that we are still creating a legal framework, a legal environment for us to pay back, if necessary, in the future. The cost compensation is that the operators of the current terrestrial broadcasting will have more costs not only for the new transition but also for the so-called transition networks, for the period between now and 2001. [[Correct 2021]] If we agree today and create a legal environment, then they will be able to request it, then only the Czech Television will assess the eligibility of individual applications and so-called notifications, i.e. when discussing with European Commission officials or paying costs. In other words, I say in all seriousness that the adoption of this law cannot and will not violate the rules on public support and will not pay the Czech Telecommunications Office a single crown until the European Commission's decision on the final form of aid. The final conclusion of my argument, such a description of logical steps as the process in the case of digitization should look like this. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall!]] The first point is the government's strategy - some strategic direction that the government has identified in accordance with the European Union and also with the World Radiocommunication Conference. We already have that. The second logical step should be today's amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, which actually rewrites the strategy into the law, describes it in the law. Only after we have an amendment can there be an act that we call the technical plan of the transition, i.e. to the government's regulation, and the government can do it just after it has legal authority from us. Another logical step, followed by this, is the construction of transition networks and the gradual transition to a new standard. The fifth step is to notify the costs and requests incurred. And only the sixth and final step is the payment of costs from the Czech Telecommunications Office. Please don't reflect on proposals for delay or delay. We, colleagues and colleagues, would actually get into Hellerův's Head XXII. If we say that we will postpone the amendment to the time of the European Commission's notification, Europe will say: but we will wait until you have the law when you have the legislative framework and then we can talk about the notifications. So we would really be in a vicious circle. Perhaps the last, it may be a bit of a poke, but it's kind of upset eyebrows from my side. In other words, the amendment has been here in the House since about March of this year. We know what the priority is, what the political reasons are, and I have no problem with it, I have no reason to criticize it, and I am with the MPO, the promoter, in line. But the very part of the digitalisation of the transition here in the House was discussed at least two years ago on the working groups - I am looking at my colleague Martin Komárek, President of the Media Election Committee. With colleagues dealing with the media, we have listened to the presentation and the presentation that it will gradually switch to digital broadcast version or type T2, maybe two years ago, when we first started watching and discussing the information. So it's really not news. When I listened to Mrs Markéta Adamová's proposal for Czech television, it is actually in line, because public broadcasters say that this is not a bad idea and that in order to equip those programmes with bilingual versions or subtitles, it also allows them to switch to a higher technical standard, where they therefore have a much larger bandwidth. They can include a lot more content or more content in the so-called stream, in the broadcast. We're in a clear line here. In order not to hold back and give the floor to others, please, colleagues, not only on behalf of the petitioner, but my novel from the point of view of the transition to new digital television is, in my opinion, worthwhile. And I repeat again and claim that it does not create any risk or threat of arbitrage or undue aid. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Pilný will now speak in the debate with a factual remark, then Mr Opálka. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, it is quite easy to be more brief after my predecessor's speech, so I will. The Economic Committee has done everything in its power to have the law dealt with as promised - in an accelerated hearing. There was a meeting before it came to the House. We had an emergency meeting. So we've really faced this face-to-face, regardless of the fact that my personal opinion is that there's really no rush. What we have to do is release the 700 MHz band for mobile data. We have to. We have until 2021. And apparently, there's no stopping the transition to the new T2 terrestrial television. I reject the catastrophic scenario that if it doesn't happen, we're just gonna put households at risk. The term free-to-air really isn't just about licence fees, because Czech TV has put in place, for example, the cancellation of VAT on programs, so the support goes in a different direction. The catastrophic scenarios of how much it's going to cost the household, they're just going to fill up, because households are going to put a few billion on it to buy new TVs. And the group that trades them when they're wasted and not in the so-called cycle of natural change, it just sort of takes away. In order not to be accused of lobbying for mobile operators, the first thing I would say, and it is clear that I am glad that the rhetoric of the submitters has disappeared from the fact that this will affect the price of mobile data. This could affect quite significantly if there was an amendment in favour of virtual operators. I just miss it there because virtual operators could have a very significant impact on the market, and so far they are being thrown rather sticks under their feet from the Czech Technical University. As far as public support is concerned, I really wonder what will happen if, in particular, the extension of the contract for private entities that will be licensed until 2030 when Brussels returns it to us. I don't know what we're gonna do. If we tell them, they'll rush us into arbitration. [[Attention on time.]] Those are just scripts that can be on the table. So these are roughly the problems I have with this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u11	Thank you. Now I'll read the apology. Mrs Jana Pastuchová apologises from 9:30 to 10:30 for work reasons. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Opálka. It is also signed with a factual remark by Mr Koskuba.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I really do have a point in fact, just so we don't live up to the idea that the only thing that a citizen pays on public television and radio is fees. They're using advertising, too. And who's paying for the commercial? After all, in the price of goods or services, a citizen. So, of course, these flows are double. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u13	Thank you. Exemplary time-keeping. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Koskuba. Please, Ambassador, two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to respond to my colleague Kolovratník, but my colleague Pilný actually crossed over. I confess, I'm not an expert on any electronic communications, let alone digitalisation. However, I am embarrassed by this law in one thing. We are really forgetting about seniors, for whom television is often the only companion, and not only have we adopted a plastic bill here and now we are going to throw out a few million, i.e. tons, set top boxes again and buy new ones. This concerns the environment. But ladies and gentlemen, please note that for our seniors, retuning digital television into a new and new system, as well as tuning digital radio really is not an easy thing to do. I understand that technical progress is moving forward, but I am grateful to everyone who realizes that it is the instruments and means that belong to these older fellow citizens, and for those changes in the programmes of today's frequencies and programmes are a problem, let alone if the whole broadcast changes. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another factual point - Mr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, ministers, and so on, my colleague here spoke to me about digitalisation and digital radio, so I will take advantage of it immediately and only a brief note. Under letter C is my amendment, where I propose that the Czech Telecommunications Authority be able to create an environment for the Czech Radio to broadcast digitally throughout our territory. It is a shame that we are still broadcasting analoguely in radio broadcasting, we do not have the possibility of digital broadcasting. He's supposed to be the leader of digital broadcasting, and since he's not, the whole radio broadcasting market is still analogue. So if you want the digitalisation of radio, radio, support my amendment under C. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. That's how we dealt with the facts. Next up, Mr. Marek Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u18	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, gentlemen of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I also briefly have some warnings, which I think the Member has already said in part here - today a Member and not yet a Minister - Pilný, but which are resounding. And a short reaction later, when he's done on the phone, to his colleague Kolovratník. The first warning I said here, and I said it last time, and I haven't been answered until now. Is the extension of licenses for terrestrial broadcasters from 8 to 9 years - how for which - by 2030, is potential public support or not? If it's not, and it comes from the law, then I'm asking why we're putting it in this transition plan. Then it's completely unnecessary to put him in the transition plan. If it is any advantage that we provide - we provide - to terrestrial broadcasters directly from the law, then there is a risk that this is a real advantage and that in any prenotification process that has not yet been carried out, it could be called into question as public support. A month ago, I sent an interview to the Minister with several questions, several questions that were just about the doubts that were raised, particularly the legal doubts that were raised in connection with this proposal. The Minister replied. Right. I'm just quoting the answer to the key question. And I didn't get any other answers. Neither on the Economic Committee nor anywhere else. My question number five was: Is budgetaryly prudent and in terms of equal access to all market participants permissible, as well as in accordance with the rules governing the granting of public aid under Article 107 of the Association Treaty to the European Union, to implement a free allocation of frequencies by 2030 to current terrestrial digital television broadcasters? That was the question. Is this in accordance with Rule 107? The answer of the Minister of Industry and Trade, which he was undoubtedly prepared by his subordinates, is: In the case of the release of 700 Hz radio frequencies, this is not a new allocation of radio frequencies, but a change in the allocation of radio frequencies in accordance with the Electronic Communications Act. If the 700 MHz band and the DVB-T2 transition were not released, the existing holders of the radio frequency allocation for the dissemination of terrestrial digital television, after the expiry of their validity, would have the right to the preferential award of new allocations in accordance with Section 20 of the Electronic Communications Act, without a tendering procedure. I still understand, I just don't know if it's as free as it is in the new bill. And just so far, no one has answered my question: Is it in accordance with Rule 107, or is it not? Is the Minister prepared to stand here and say with all the responsibility of the Minister of this Government: the extension of radio frequencies until 2030 is in accordance with Article 107 of the Treaty on European Union and will not be called into question as public support? [[10.00 hours]] If this is clear, then I think there is no major problem with voting for the matter. But if this isn't clear, then we're really in danger of arbitrage. Because no one's saying there's gonna be a problem with that, I'm gonna pay ten new bolts for the transmitter, and I want compensation for them. Well, that's not gonna happen. It doesn't matter. In my opinion, that's not the point of the story at all. The point is whether the extension of licenses is correct or not correct. That's the first thing I wanted. The second point, to my colleague, Mr Kolovratník - when the President of my club stops disturbing me - is through the President. Again. He's the myth that, my colleague, you like to preach about the free television, virtually. TV that I won't have to pay for, and that's what we're providing and what we're doing this whole novel for, and we're giving it to consumers, it's really just a myth. And I'd really like it if we didn't do it again, 'cause those people are gonna be disappointed when they find out that what you promised them isn't true. Again. A question I've been directing to the minister of your government. Can the transition to DVB-T2 technology be the creation of conditions for launching a paid terrestrial television broadcast? The Minister for Industry and Trade's reply: The transition to DVB-T2 technology is neither linked nor conditional on the creation of conditions for launching a paid terrestrial television broadcast. I understand the first part. Paid terrestrial television can also be applied to the current DVBT MPEG2 technology and depends on the business decision of broadcasters - which the Minister tells me is a business decision of market operators such as Nova, Prima and others, whether they charge or not to charge television broadcasts broadcast in terrestrial terms. And I fear that this may happen soon and that it is useless to call these people and promise that they will not be charged television if the terrestrial broadcast is charged. What will probably not be charged is, of course, Czech TV, because we have a charge otherwise, frankly, we pay here in television fees, in which we pay not only the program and its quality, but of course we also pay the distribution, because Czech TV sends small money to one of those players on the market to spread, of course, the money does not have anything other than the licence fee, so we all pay it there long ago, the broadcast. We just don't see it, it's just that it's not every month that we charge like 20, 40, 80, 120 kroner, but it's the 125 kroner we're tearing down, or I don't know what it's like on TV today, and one part of it goes away and goes for it. You know, we're already paying for this, and I'm just saying that there's a great risk that, despite everything that's going on in this House, those commercial entities and the terrestrial broadcasts are going to go on the basis of their economic decision that they're going to start being paid and it's not gonna be possible to catch them. [[unintelligible]] I consider the whole transition to be extremely controversial, at least as if unnegotiated, as it should have been done, with the fact that all compensation is granted to only a few private players on the market. And we're saying that this is the most socially fair model, instead of possibly providing compensation to someone and end users, as some countries in Europe have said, we'll pay you the set of top boxes and other things. It just says here: the only one who will be supported is for three years to run alongside each other two types of broadcasts, and for the next ten years, someone had a monopoly on terrestrial broadcasting. I consider this to be very controversial, and that is why I am making proposals to postpone the effectiveness of these parts, because I am very afraid that we can really arrive at unpleasant arbitrations, for which, of course, someone other than this government will be responsible. But we will. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I'm going to read a few apologies. Mr Leoš Heger apologizes on account of his business trip on 24. 5 between 10.00 and 19.00, Mrs Martina Berdychová apologizes today for working reasons, Mrs Radka Maxová apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day of the sitting and tomorrow from the full day of the Chamber of Deputies for working reasons, Mrs Nina Nováková apologises until 1.00 for personal reasons, Mr Karel Schwarzenberg apologizes 24. 5th between 10.00 and 10.30 for personal reasons. That's all they brought me, I hope. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u20	Hello, thank you for your word. First of all, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for calling a political meeting to this bill before the Government sent the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies, and I think that even those who were present at the meeting will confirm that the proposal for an accelerated hearing came from my mouth. I want to document that we do not want to prevent this amendment from being dealt with quickly. However, we have already asked many questions at that meeting, and unfortunately, we have not yet received good answers so that our doubts and the risks of this proposal are scattered. And then I want to say that the proposal actually consists of two parts. Let us remember, in the political struggle it was anonced at first, that it is a law that will make mobile data cheaper, and even according to today's debate, you can see that the debate focuses on second digitization. It would be easier if it were two separate points, but it's already done, we'll deal with it somehow. So, before I get to the second digitization, I mean, we're gonna support it as meaningful proposals that go in favor of clients, for example. Mr Luzar's amendment will be supported by us to reverse the relationship and that, if I forget or do not have time, I do not negotiate a new treaty so that it is not automatically prolonged. We will also support the proposal that on public television, if only possible with technical and legal constraints, to broadcast films in the original version with subtitles. I'm sure these are things that go in the right direction. Now I'm gonna go back to the second digitization. The debate is a little off-limits. In this debate, we combine two different things: the release of the frequency band and the transition to the second digitization. It's partly connected, but it's not entirely true that the first one enforces the second one. For the first time, I think at second reading, the minister was there, saying the prenotification. The process started in December 2016, colleagues and colleagues, and until now, until today, the Czech Republic has not been able to answer questions. The Czech Republic itself requested, perhaps it is a coincidence that it will reply by 21 May, at a time when we already knew it would be after the third reading. And those questions are extremely serious, and some of them were mentioned here by Mr Pilný. We forget a little, and those who so passionately defend this novel are actually forgetting to mention the fact for consumers. Forced TV exchange. Forced, not natural. Natural is who decides, it's some percentage of people who restore television every year. And the Ministry of Industry and Trade alone estimates these costs of CZK 5 billion in its underlying material in the explanatory administration. Everyone here who warms up and says, "we're in favour of it free of charge," so they forget a little bit to say that our households will have to invest outside the natural exchange of a TV of CZK 5 billion. And let us ask whether this measure is socially sensitive or insensitive, which households will have a greater financial problem and which do not. I think the answers are pretty clear, and I don't have to answer the questions I asked myself. I will not read the 17 additional questions received by the Czech Republic, all of them, only some. And a lot of it revolves around possible compensations. One I was interested in. Could you please provide evidence demonstrating the inability of private companies to finance technological upgrades from their own resources to demonstrate market failures? In other words, there is a doubt as to whether the compensation should be. And the Czech Republic will demonstrate that private companies are unable to finance from their own resources and from their own reserves. Too bad we don't have all the answers to all the questions. It's a real shame. [[10.10 hours]] Mr Pilný, if I am not mistaken, asked what would happen if we passed the bill and the notification was not approved. I think that you who want to support this law will put a strong weapon in your hand to the companies that say: The law has been passed, in which the compensation has been mentioned, we do not really care whether you have not identified it in Brussels or not, we have applied the costs under the applicable legislation and it is fair that the State should pay them. This is a threat. Whether it's a form of arbitration or litigation. This is a real threat. And I'd like to ask the Minister what the script is if the option occurs. I am not saying that it will come, neither will we, nor the government, nor the House, nor the Senate, it will be decided by the European Commission. Yes, we can be optimistic, we'll say, he'll approve everything, there's no problem. I would also like to recall the very important law that we discussed in this Chamber of Deputies, and that was the new lottery law. And let us remember that we interrupted the discussion of this bill in second reading, and patiently for several months we waited for the result of the notification, which was essentially positive, but we still had to read some of the conditions as part of the second reading, they were loaded and the law was passed. Here we hear two sentences that I think are going against each other. The Ministry of Industry, its leaders, say: don't worry, no public support will be paid without notification. And I believe them, there's no other way. But at the same time, when we propose to bring this condition into the law, the Ministry of Industry is completely illogical from my point of view. I don't have logic here. That's right, but we don't have to have it in the law. Or we don't even have one. And we're against having it in the law. That's weird. I would like to ask the Minister - because I agree that there is a competitive struggle. And each of these groups defends their business interests. I think it's legitimate, but we should be out of the game. So that we don't prefer one group to another by law. Then it's a fair fight going on, each of these groups arguing with their business interests, virtually. the arguments are consistent with interests, and there's nothing wrong with that. [[unintelligible]] We just shouldn't succumb to it, and in this fight, we're gonna rule it out, and we're gonna join one side or the other. Both approaches, just one side or the other, I consider wrong. A very common argument is that we have to pay for the simultaneous transmission. So let's say the argument is correct. I want to ask who checked on how he determined how long the simultaneous transmission would last. Of course, it is completely different to pay the cost of simultaneous broadcasts for a year or four. Everyone's gonna admit that to me. So the second specific question to the Minister, since when are you going to compensate for the costs of simultaneous transmission? From what date, when we have the end date? And who checked to see if half or one-third of the time would be enough to consummate and verify the technical readiness? I say for myself, I don't know the answer if four years is the right number. But I'd expect someone to check it out, there's some kind of technical analysis. I know it's quite difficult to read, but every club will find someone who is able to study the complex technical problems and say yes, I think that the time of continuance is fine, or I think it's too long. Or at the end of the day, he can say it seems too short. Given the additional costs and the forced costs of the household law of $5 billion, I want to ask the Minister why we didn't use the two-year delay. We're talking 30. 6. 2020 at the same time in all the underlying materials that Member States could have requested a deferral until 2022. And it's a very simple logic. If we had five years to do it from now on, the natural TV exchange will affect more households than if we have three years to do it. That means forced costs wouldn't have to be 5 billion and could have been lower. So I want to ask why we didn't use this. If so, who was against it, because I don't need all the information. Then I want to ask the Minister, I'm sure he knows the letter with the 17 questions, if the answers are ready and why we don't have them at our disposal. The minister looks like he doesn't see the letter. I really don't like this kind of theater. I'll hand it over to you, I've got a reference number, and if you want, I'll read it on the microphone, I didn't want to delay. [[Unintelligible]] I've never heard of a letter. Let's go first. We note that maximum and minimum levels are not yet established. However, can you specify the conditions for granting the maximum subsidy amount? What is the expected maximum amount per beneficiary? And now I could quote if you checked to see if private entities could finance it from their own resources. There's also talk of the free extension of the license that one of my predecessors was talking about. And I do not find it fair to vote before the Czech Republic responds. I don't know why. We thought it was a priority. The Prime Minister, I thanked him for that, he called for a political meeting. The Committee on Economic Affairs sat extremely down before the first reading to discuss it. And our ministry will write: Please give us a delay until the end of June. Is that a priority? Do you work on it? Are we done with the answers, or aren't we? It seems strange to me when it is such a priority and since December, today we are on 24 May and we have not been able to answer the European Commission's questions. What are your people doing there, Minister? I don't know. The risks of additional costs for households are high. Even there are high risks that the state will have to compensate for costs due to this approved amendment, for example in the event of lost arbitrations or litigation. And I would like to hear the assurance that the government has a solution for this scenario and what it is. And then just to say "there will be compensation, but citizens won't pay" - that's a deep mistake. Where's the compensation coming from? From the state budget. From taxes taken by citizens and companies. That's not some virtual government money. And as the European Commission asks, we don't even know what the maximum amount is... What we do know, however, is that we know for sure that any compensation will be paid by taxpayers. Maybe they won't see it, like Marek Benda said, they won't have it on file. But he'll really pay for it. Instead of other state budget expenditures, this will be the one. So let's not say that this is without the cost of citizens. It's not without expenses! I think it's wise to wait for the notification. If you're saying no, you're taking on your shoulders the risks that the notifications aren't gonna end well, or we're gonna have to amend the law. I gave an example of a lottery law where we had to work on some minor changes to the law. I am not saying that they were essential, but remember, then they were recorded at second reading, then the Chamber of Deputies approved them, and we did not have to amend the law. Of course, there's a threat. And the key question here was raised by the future Minister of Finance, and I would like to put it to the Minister as the last of my speech. What's your hurry, Minister, when there's no real delay? You may be in a hurry to start paying compensation for the dual or trial broadcast, as we call it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. With priority rights, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u22	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I will briefly comment on some of the topics mentioned here. It seems extremely hypocritical to me by Members of the ODS, what they are saying here. I would like to remind you that the first transition from analogue to digital broadcasting took place from 2008 to 2011, when the government was in power under the leadership of the ODS. We are doing exactly the same thing, exactly the way your government did. I therefore find it extremely hypocritical to criticize this government, the Ministry of Industry and Trade here, that it does not consider, or how much will cost households to exchange televisions or set top boxes. The same had to happen to households at a time when your governments had to switch from analogue to digital television. It's the same thing. Exactly the same. With regard to the issue of public aid, we have been discussing this matter with the Office for the Protection of Competition, which has never questioned the Ministry's procedure in the course of the whole process. We are also working together on the question of prenotification. I assure you, Mr President, that the document to be sent to the European Commission by the end of this week is ready. A comparatively extensive study was developed externally to respond to all the questions raised. As for the time of continuance, you asked me - through you, Mr Vice-President - why we are in such a hurry. We are therefore in a hurry to adopt this law as soon as possible so that it is as long as possible for citizens of the Czech Republic to adapt to the technological change that is coming. The less time they have, the more it will, of course, burden them, the less socially sensitive the process will be. So these are some things that I considered necessary to respond to, and I dare to appeal again and ask the Chamber of Deputies to support this law at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u23	Thank you, Minister. I'll read an apology. Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes for the meeting today from 9 a.m. to the whole day for health reasons. The Minister has spoken in an still open debate, so President Stanjura will respond with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u24	I would like to point out the style of questions and the style of answers: factual, specific questions - and the political label "you are hypocrites, you did the same." Vice-President Vondráček said not to use any words in the parliamentary debate the other day, and I will not use them today to describe it by a copy. Minister of Industry, I am sure he knows the qualitative difference between analogue and digital broadcasting and the change in the type of digital broadcasting. And I don't believe that the professional honor will allow him to say that the change from analogue television to digital is as significant and the same step forward as between first and second digitization. If so, you can make it professionally impossible here. At least you could tell how many programs citizens could receive when there was an analogue broadcast, what was the problem with frequencies and how much they could do after the first digitalisation. Try to guess, I don't know how many programs there are, I don't even have a chance to go through them all because I don't have as much time on that TV, but I'm sure there aren't five or six of them as it was for an analog broadcast. So the comparison is really limping. But notice, instead of answering specific questions, one argument will say: you did it in 2008, when you ruled, exactly the same way. That's not an answer. First of all, I showed you, and you know it was completely different. Otherwise, you forgot. Unfortunately, we didn't rule the whole period, it's not true, you should know that as a major social democrat. There's been a long bureaucratic government here, canceled early elections, new elections, you and Jiří Paroubek were going to rule here. You're distracting from the problems. I didn't ask when citizens were supposed to start buying new TVs. I asked why we didn't have it two years later. That would be socially more sensitive. You didn't answer that. And I asked you something completely different - how long are you prepared to pay for the simultaneous broadcast? And why from now on to 2020? Wouldn't two years or a year be enough? I don't know. That was a normal question. I asked if there were any studies or people comparing it, and the result was that it had to be 3.5 years, because otherwise it wouldn't be technically possible. I can't believe it. And for all users of the technological conveniences of today's world - so compare 3.5 years as it is a great time and what else can change in 3.5 years. Remember what we used three and a half years ago, so we don't go back to the '90s, and how this development goes together. So you've answered something completely different and you're saying it's socially sensitive to force households to buy TVs for 5 billion if they don't have to. That's the whole sentence. You just said the first two: it's socially sensitive, and you didn't say the amount anymore, and you didn't say you didn't have to do it, that you wanted them to do it. So that was the question. I was asking... And you didn't answer me. You said so citizens could buy TV today or tomorrow that they already are. Remember, I don't blame you or anyone in the government, in 2014 and maybe even in 2015 TVs were already on the market, which claimed as their competitive advantage that when the second digitization came, you wouldn't have to change the TV. Then you decided to use a different format - I admit it is better, there is no technical dispute about it. [[Unintelligible]] Worse. You're saying the transition from analog to digital is the same thing as now. It just isn't. And those people who believed that, and that's not a mistake either of you or your governments, they're gonna have to do it again. I think you know what I'm talking about and I'm right. And I'm not blaming you, I'm just asking, what if it changes? So those who buy it this year in good faith that it will be okay by 2020... I told you, co-worker, I want to buy a new TV when the old one stops serving. Maybe tomorrow, maybe five years from now. But thanks to you, I'll have to buy it sooner. It's true. Or I'll have to switch to another way of receiving a television signal, and you say that you're fighting against the business interests of those who do other things. Minister, I'm really disappointed. Instead of answering factually specific questions, without political attacks, including appreciation of the role of Prime Minister, it's all you have: you've done it, it's the same thing. It's not true. Three years at the time, you ruled. It's not true either. And you are hypocrites. I'm not gonna use those strong words, I'm just gonna repeat what's very clear. You either don't know the answers to those questions, or you do, and you don't want to tell us because they wouldn't be good for what you want us to do. I don't know which model is better, if a) or b). I think they're both bad. And I really thought that, in the context of today's discussion, we would be engaged in a substantive discussion, and we would not be bringing things here from 2008, namely hypocrisy. And even if neither I nor you were in the government in 2008. So I'm supposed to bring you up and now list your politicians who made mistakes eventually and say: your predecessor to do this and this? What does this have to do with this bill, the risks to the households we talked about? Nothing. So, unlike you, I'm not gonna do it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Pilný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would just briefly, because here we made a promise in the Chamber of Deputies that we would operate here in the Chamber of Deputies for the sake of citizens, so I would just recommend to all citizens of the Czech Republic that they buy a new television just before they turn off the broadcast. Those TVs are gonna be cheaper and better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now I'll read the apology. Mr František Laudát apologizes from 10.30 to 12.30 for personal reasons. At the same time it is logged in with a factual remark - but I saw it release the O.R., so the application defaults. And now, with a point of fact, Mr Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u28	Good morning, honourable Members. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u29	Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I shall repeat my question once again. Minister, are you sure that extending the license of terrestrial broadcasters to 2030 is not contrary to Article 107 of the aid? Are you able to guarantee us this here? If not, we cannot vote for the law with a calm conscience because you do it by law and not by any subsequent implementation!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u30	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, the factual remark of Mrs Zuzana Šánová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u31	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I, Minister, overheard, through Mr President, in your speech, that an external team or external workers were working on the study. I'm asking why. You don't have enough experts in the Ministry to put it externally? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u32	Thank you, Mrs Šánová, and now I have no application for a debate, nor do I see anyone, so I am ending the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. I'm gonna read an apology. Mrs Marta Semelová apologizes for tomorrow, Thursday 25 May, at 9 o'clock for work reasons. We will therefore continue, by expressing the rapporteur of the guarantee committee to introduce us to the voting procedure, then to present the various amendments, and before the vote he expressed his position on them. I will, of course, always ask the Minister for an opinion. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u33	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I thank all those who speak for their constructive approach, which has shown that this law is very important not only for us here as Members, but also for all citizens of the Czech Republic. I must say that four colleagues and colleagues have spoken with a proper application, six Members have spoken with a factual remark and one Member with a priority right. None of them suggested returning this law to second reading. I would also like to draw your attention to the fact that all the amendments are listed in the Parliaments of the Press 1053/3 for your information. And now for this procedure of voting. It is mentioned in the resolution of the Committee on Economic Affairs 391 of the 52nd meeting of 3 May 2017 and I would now like to present it to you. According to this resolution, first of all, we should vote on proposals for technical adaptations. They haven't been read, so this vote is off. 2. About Amendment a. 3. About Amendment B1. 4. On Amendments B2 and B3 jointly by one vote. 5. Amendment B4. 6. Amendment C. 7. Amendment D1. 8. Amendment D2 and D3 together with one vote, and on this point I would like to point out that I am now giving you the opinion and resolution of the Economic Committee, but my colleague Leo Luzar has proposed this vote separately, so I think we will then vote when I finish the procedure, first. 9. Amendments E1 and E3 together with one vote. If proposals E1 through E3 are adopted, the proposals E4, E5, E6 and G will be impossible. If proposals E1 through E3 are not adopted, the proposals will be voted. 10. Amendments E4 and E5 together with one vote. Note: if proposals E4 and E5 are adopted, the proposals E6 and G. And if proposals E4 and E5 are not adopted, the proposals will be voted. 11. Amendment E6. Note: if the E6 proposal is adopted, the unvoting proposal is G. And if the E6 proposal is not adopted, the vote will be taken. 12. Amendment G 13. Amendment F. And the last vote will be on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u34	Thank you, rapporteur. Does anyone have a reminder of the procedure proposal? If not, there is only one point, and that is a separate vote in proposal E1 and E3. No, D2 and D3. [[Objection.]] Yes? [[Agreed.]] Okay. Do we accept that, or do you want to decide by voting that it will be on its own? I think we can accept this already by voting on the procedure that we will approve in the 126 vote, which I will begin now, and I ask who is in favour of the proposed voting procedure with the separate vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 126 of 161 Members present for 139, against none. The procedure has been approved. So we can follow it. The first proposal is Amendment . pan, an opinion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u35	If I may, I would always say what that point contains. Or is it an interest?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u36	Yes, we'd like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u37	I see that there will be an interest in this, so I will always say the content of the amendment. Specifically, under Code A, these are amendments contained in Guarantee Committee Resolution 376 of the 54th Meeting of the Economic Committee on Economic Affairs, held on 19. 4. These amendments are set out in the Houses of the Press 1053/2. Opinion positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u38	Mr. Secretary? [[Positive.]] Also positive. We will decide in the vote the order number 127 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 127 of the 162 Members present for 146, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u39	We will now vote on Amendment B1. This is the amendment of my fellow Member Adamec. It is the establishment of transition networks and the determination of their purpose. It is necessary to implement directly by law, not by designing it as an obligation for holders of radio frequency allocations. In the amendment, it is also intended to clarify the scope of the entities to be authorised. The opinion of the Economic Committee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u40	Mr. Secretary? [[Positive.]] On request from the diaper, I'll check you out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. You know the rapporteur's and the Minister's views. We will decide in the vote the order number 128, which I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 128 of 149 for 119, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u41	We will now vote on Amendments B2 and B3 together with one vote. These are also the amendments made by my colleague Adamec. Opinion negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u42	Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] I've started voting number 129, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 129 of the present 150 for 18, against 79. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u43	We will now vote on Amendment B4, once again, on the amendment of Mr Adamec. Its content is that in § 120 para. 3 the amount of 40 million is replaced by 100 million. The possibility of fines granted on net turnover, as with B2 and B3 is deleted. The opinion of the Economic Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u44	Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] I've started voting number 130, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 130 from 151 Members present for 18, against 84. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u45	We will now vote on Amendment C. It is an amendment to Mr Kudela's fellow Member, which is that, following the prior approval of the Council on Radio and Television, the Office will make available for the Czech Radio frequency to enable radio broadcasting to operate to the extent provided for in the Czech Radio Act. The opinion of the Economic Committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u46	Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] I've started voting number 131 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 131 of the present 154 for 17, against 79. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u47	We will now vote on the amendment under code D1, this is the amendment of Mr Luzar, and this amendment contains a transitional provision setting a deadline for bringing the existing treaties into line with the new regulation, six months after the date of entry into force. The opinion of the Economic Committee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u48	Mr. Secretary? [[Also positive.]] I've started voting number 132 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 132 of the 154 present for 151 Member, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u49	We will continue with the vote on Amendment D2 again by fellow Members of Mr Leo Luzar. The amendment aims at unifying the length of the notice period for electronic communications contracts and preventing the provider from deterring its participants from exercising their right to terminate the contract by overextending the notice period while exploiting the Institute of Retention Offers. The opinion of the Economic Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u50	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 133 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 133 of the present 154 for 95, against 18. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u51	We will continue the vote with Amendment D3 and this is the last amendment by fellow Member Leo Luzar. The question here is that the proposed amendment to the legislation addresses the fundamental principle. Newly necessary will be active, this is a conscious act by the consumer, who must express his consent to the extension of the contract for a fixed period. The opinion of the Economic Committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u52	Mr. Secretary? [[Neutral.]] I've started voting number 134 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 134 of the present 154 for 137, against 3. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u53	We are now voting on amendments E1 to E3 together with one vote. These are Mr Benda's amendments, and these amendments make provision for the transition to DVB-T2 standard. The opinion of the Economic Committee negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u54	Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] I've started voting number 135 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 135 of the present 154 for 12, against 100. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u55	I will now turn your attention to the vote on amendments E4 and E5 together with one vote. In E4 the amendment concerns the postponement of the effectiveness of the Electronic Communications Act and the Czech Television Act in the field of ensuring and implementing the process of switching terrestrial digital TV broadcasting from the current DVBT to the DVB-T2 standard. The opinion of the Economic Committee negative. Amendment E5 states that the law takes effect on the 15th day following its publication, with certain exceptions which take effect from the date following the publication of the Commission's decision on public aid, that all the measures referred to in those provisions are not public aid. The opinion of the Economic Committee is negative on these two joint votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u56	Mr. Secretary? [[Also negative.]] I started voting number 136. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 136 of 155 present for 37, against 74. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u57	The last amendment from Mr Benda's workshop is the amendment under the E6 code. The amendment aims to prevent illegal public support in the form of free allocation of radio frequencies to commercial operators of DVB-T2 networks. The opinion of the Economic Committee is negative.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u58	Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] I've started voting number 137 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 137 of 155 present for 19, anti 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u59	We are now voting on the amendment under code G, it is the amendment of fellow Member Martin Kolovratník. This is a clarification of the text of the Act, which says that it is not possible to limit the entitlement of holders of existing radio frequency allocations to apply for their amendment solely to the cited provisions of the Act. In these circumstances, the proposed provision could jeopardise the implementation of the transfer to DVB-T2 itself. The opinion of the Economic Committee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u60	Mr. Secretary? [[Positive.]] I've started voting number 138 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 138 from the present 154 for 124, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u61	The last vote will be the vote on the amendment under Code F, which was tabled by Mrs Adamová Pekarová, who was adopted by Mr Kučera. The purpose of the amendment is to establish an obligation for Czech Television so that when broadcasting cinematographic works of foreign production, films and series created for television broadcasting, which are accompanied by dubbing, these works will be broadcast in the original version with subtitles in the Czech language. The opinion of the Economic Committee is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-24-ps2013-057-06-001-260.u62	Mr. Secretary? [[Positive.]] I started voting number 139. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 139 of 156 present for 149, against 1. The motion was accepted. This has exhausted the amendments. Isn't that right, rapporteur? [[Rapporteur: Yes, it is.]] All those who have tabled amendments agree, so we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill if all the proposals have been voted on. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic communications and amending certain related laws, as amended, and Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, according to the House press 1053, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Act on electronic communications]] We're going to decide in the 140 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Opinions shall be given on amendments under the Rules of Procedure. I have begun the vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 140 of 155 for 132, against no one. The motion has been approved. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister and end with item 260. [[10.50 hours]] We'll continue with point 261, and that's when the situation at the rapporteur's desk calms down... [[Several Members are speaking with Minister Havlíček there.]] I will ask the Minister and the rapporteur to make room at the rapporteur's table for others who will submit the law at third reading. It's about
