ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u1	3. Draft Act on Rules of Budget Responsibility (Departmental Press 412/10/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as press 412/11. I welcome Senator Miloš Vystil here and I ask the plaintiff to comment on the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill by the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of Finance Mr Andrej Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to emphasise that the proposed regulation is a transposition of Directive No 1 of the Council of the European Union. 85/2011 on requirements for Member States' budgetary frameworks. The Czech Republic should have reflected it in its legal order by the end of 2013. - 2013, repeat. - In the case of an untransmitted directive, the Czech Republic would face not only reputational sanctions but also very likely fines as the last of the 28 Europeans. So we're the last ones in Europe that we haven't transferred. I would repeat the content of the regulation only briefly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u3	Minister, I am very sorry, but I am asking the House for peace. I ask you to settle down and watch the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u4	Thank you. Firstly, the proposal contains new numerical fiscal rules, i.e. countercyclical and cautious spending rule for the state budget and state funds, a preventive rule for local authorities providing minimum means for repayment of excessive debt and a debt brake for total debt in the general government sector. Secondly, it is proposed to set up a National Budgetary Board to monitor the development of public finances. Thirdly, the law contains a number of elements to increase transparency in the management of all of us, i.e. taxpayers. We are discussing the House's press to the Bill of Budgetary Responsibility once more because it has been rejected by the Senate. Probably the most violent discussion took place in the Senate on points that somehow affect the local authorities. I would now like to focus particularly on the idea of abandoning the provisions relating to the rule for local authorities providing minimum means for the repayment of excessive debt. I believe that this position is not sustainable and defendable for several reasons. First of all, this would mean that the main objective of the Act on budgetary responsibility would not be met, i.e. Transpone and implement EU Council Directive No. 85/2011, i.e. budgetary supervision, would not be applied to the whole general government sector, unless I count the specific situation of the debt brake. Now let me quote from the preamble to the directive itself. It is clearly stated in paragraph 23 that the provisions of the budgetary surveillance framework laid down in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in particular the Stability and Growth Pact apply to the whole general government sector, i.e. involving central government sub-sectors, national government, local government and social security funds. It is noted in paragraph 24 of the Directive that the scope of the obligations and procedures laid down in national budgetary frameworks should be taken into account in particular in order to adequately cover all sub-sectors of the general government sector, in particular in Member States with strong fiscal decentralisation. Finally, in paragraph 25, in order to effectively promote budgetary discipline and the sustainability of public finances, the budgetary frameworks should cover comprehensively all public finances. Paragraph 2 of Article 13 of the Directive then explicitly requires fiscal responsibility to be supported, the budgetary powers of the public authorities in the various sub-sectors of the general government sector to be clearly defined. It should be stressed that local authorities form one whole sub-sector of the general government sector. This sub-sector managed revenue at a total consolidated value of 446 billion in 2015, i.e. almost 10 per cent of GDP. The aim of the said European directive is to prevent the risks of potential miseconomic behaviour with taxpayers' funds, i.e. with the resources of local authorities. I believe that this should be the primary objective of all of us. In this spirit, a rule is proposed in the law to prevent the risks of defaulting. The proposed rule for local authorities has been designed as the best available option and is one of the mildest in the European Union. The rule reflects the ability to finance the debt obligations of a specific municipality, city or region by its liquid means. Moreover, it does not contain any sanctions, but a corrective mechanism. The funds are not withdrawn in the event of excessive debt by the local government unit, no fine is paid, only part of them is earmarked for the payment of its excessive debt. The rule also does not constitute a ceiling on the amount of debt, only, I repeat, ensures minimum means of subsequently repaying the debt. The rule was called unconstitutional by senators. On the contrary, I believe that it rather supports the constitutional right of the municipality or region to the self-government provided for in paragraph 3 of Article 101 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, when this fundamental right cannot be exercised by the local authorities. After all, some sad examples from practice illustrate this. On the other hand, I admit that certain provisions can be mitigated or complied with by the objections of the senators in those parts which are not in conflict with the transposition of the EU Directive No. 85/2011. So I firmly believe that the present regulation will contribute to greater transparency, efficiency, efficiency and efficiency in the management of public finances. I therefore recommend to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to revote the Senate's veto on the House of Press 412. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u5	Thank you, Minister, and I will ask if the Senate resolution is being addressed gradually by the approachable rapporteurs. First of all, Mr Votava for the Committee on Budgets? It's not like that. Mr Koubek for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development? Not either. Mr. Plíšek? Yes, he wishes to get out. He is the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u6	Mr President, my dear colleagues, I will, of course, comment on the Senate's position at the end of my speech, although I must remind the constitutionally-legal committee as rapporteur of the Constitutional Committee that it was a constitutionally-legal committee that, when we were still discussing the constitutional law on budgetary responsibility rules, it adopted a resolution in which it asked the President of the Chamber of Deputies to convene the meetings of the Members' Clubs to agree on this constitutional law. This meeting did not take place and subsequently, which is not so often the custom in parliamentary democracy, has been amended by constitutional law to a simple law during the hearing in the Chamber of Deputies. It wasn't until the third reading vote. In doing so, the Government has put in place a constitutional law requiring a qualified agreement, i.e. three-fifths of the majority of Members. The Senate rejected this proposal by the simple law for its possible collision with the Constitution of the Czech Republic in a relatively clear majority. I think that we should not be indifferent to this rather clear position of the Senate, because the Senate, as it is known, is also to be a kind of insurance of constitutionality and a guarantee of errors that will occur in the Chamber of Deputies, and I think that if the constitutional law on the premises of this House is replaced by a simple law during the legislative process, and at least those passages which conflicted with the Constitution of the Czech Republic have not been adapted, and I am thinking now, and as the Senate has pointed out, Article 101 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3, which clearly states that local authorities, i.e. municipalities and regions, are public corporations that can own their own property and - I stress - manage according to their own budget. This constitutional law cannot be restricted simply by law. This was done by the adoption of the Act on the Rules of Budget Responsibility and the Senators have already announced that if the Act was approved again by the Chamber of Deputies, it would turn to the Constitutional Court for at least a collision with Article 101 (2) of the Treaty. 3. I think that, in this knowledge, we should not support this law and that the legislative process should be initiated from the outset. Of course, as rapporteur, I cannot address the political convention that this is merely a kind of game of budgetary responsibility, but as rapporteur, I should have warned you that we should have given the Senate the truth on this matter and that we should not vote on a standard which, in terms of the rights of self-governing bodies - municipalities and regions - is and may be in conflict with the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u7	And I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Soňa Marková. He doesn't want to get out. In that case, I am opening the debate and the first to speak is Senator Vystrčil. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u8	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Plíšek, for the argument he has made here, because I will agree with him on this. To begin with, for those who did not have the opportunity or time to look at the vote on this law in the Senate, and especially for the presidents of individual parliamentary clubs, I would like to point out that of the 18 Senators present for the Czech Party, the Social Democratic 18 voted to reject the law, or 100 percent. Of the 14 Senators elected for KDU-ČSL 14, they voted to reject this law, or 100 percent. Of the 11 Senators present elected for STAN 11, he voted to reject this law, or 100 percent. Of the 9 Senators present for ODS 9 voted to reject the law, or 100 percent. Of the 6 Senators present elected for YES 4, they voted to reject this law, i.e. 67 percent. And out of the nine senators present, who are independent, 7 voted to reject this law. I think this is for a deeper consideration as to why the senators across the political parties did this, and I will therefore try quite briefly, if necessary and in more detail, to explain the reasons that lie not only in the unconstitution of this law, but also in some other matters. The first thing that has already been said here by Mr Plíšek is the unconstitution of the law. You yourself know best that the original intention was to approve a constitutional law, or a financial constitution, which did not happen, and although this did not happen, the Chamber of Deputies subsequently approved a law on budgetary responsibility and thereby limited the rights of self-government to have property and to be able to treat and dispose of their budget at their discretion, as guaranteed by Article 101 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. The second thing that the Chamber of Deputies has done is that the law, because it is a standard law, and if it is adopted, will be an ordinary law, that is, when someone decides that there is no longer a need to respect budgetary responsibility, that is very simply the most double decision the Chamber of Deputies can make. In other words, the law is just a game of budgetary responsibility, because any Chamber of Deputies, where a government coalition has a majority, that law can change at any time. This means that it is an ordinary clownhouse where someone tries to present themselves as one who cares about budgetary responsibility, but who does not really want to anchor it into our right so that nothing can be done about it and does so only by an ordinary law that is not constitutional. That's the first important thing. If you ask what paragraphs the constitutional right of self-government is violated on its own management budget, in our opinion it is at least two paragraphs and it is § 14 and § 17. The second thing that the law contains and which in one case is not so dangerous yet and in the other case is very dangerous, is that the law otherwise approaches the government, the state, the economy of the state as a whole, and in other ways the management of local authorities, their institutions, universities, health insurance companies, etc. I'll explain. Section 14 states that if the debt of the Czech Republic was above 55 percent of GDP, which is not at risk today, these mechanisms would occur, while, logically, in the case of the state budget, it should be changed on the basis of the government's proposal, so that, say, debt financing is sustainable and maybe it can be reduced, which is logical, because if you are a long-term debt, it is not possible for you to immediately start managing without debt, without debt. In the case of other institutions, they must immediately set up such mechanisms that they must approve surplus budgets. That's just complete nonsense. If someone is long-term and heavily indebted, they cannot immediately start managing the surplus budget. It must do so by gradually starting to pay off its debts, which is what the government allows to become a state budget, but it does not give this possibility either to health insurance companies or to universities or to local authorities. That's the first thing that's meaningless in there. Fortunately, it is not dangerous because we are not above 55 percent of GDP debt. [[15.30 hours]] The second thing that is dangerous and basically for the management of certain municipalities already has to do with the fact that, in Section 17, this law states that municipalities should not have more debt than 60 percent of their annual income if I say so in a simple way. I beg you, which one of you has ever bought an apartment or a house. I suppose they all are. Did the house or apartment cost you more than a year of your income or less than a year of your income? It was an investment. I suppose in most cases, in the vast majority of cases, that apartment cost you more than your annual income. And yet, in this law, we absolutely insanely order municipalities not to invest more than 60 percent of their income in one year. After all, the municipalities, especially small municipalities, will cease to function. How do they invest the sewers? How will they invest the school's repairs? How will they invest the construction of the hall, how will they invest the repair of the road? I can't. In all these cases, small municipalities always borrow more than their annual budget, as you borrow more when you buy an apartment than your annual income. What kind of nonsense is that in Section 17? Why did you do that? You want to destroy the community? Their management? Their operation? That's total nonsense! And I'm begging you not to do that and say you're gonna fix it. That puts these communities in an unsolvable position. So that's point number one. 2. The liquidation law concerning the management of the smaller municipalities in particular. Point No 3 - bureaucracy, bureaucracy, bureaucracy, blooming, growing, flourishing. This law requires all public institutions to be 18,000 - 18,000! - publish their budgetary projections, which means budgets for two years in advance, and their approved, respectively. The budgets discussed, with the result that 18 thousand budget projections and 18 thousand budgets discussed will be published, and the accompanying law to this law, of course, is already, please - listen well - do not - order - not - order - to make changes to the budget projections public and do not order changes to the budget of the contribution organisations to be published. So a high five in the water. A high-five in the water as if we were publishing, but we are not publishing because the budget of the contribution organisation is changing, the budget outlook is changing, there is no need to publish these changes. So we're doing it, and we're not doing it, because in the accompanying law, we forgot to change the little budget rules so that it was a duty. That means nonsense, we're just going to bureaucratically burden 18,000 public institutions that don't have to publish changes, so it's all useless, because what's going to be posted doesn't have to apply anymore. That's it! And that's in this law. Second, which is also pointless, that, of course, the budgetary perspective for two years in advance can never be done by the General Health Insurance Company or any other insurance undertaking because it does not know what the payment decree will look like. The budgetary outlook for two years in advance can never be made by any hospital because it does not know how to finance the region that is the founder, or the state etc. It can't even be done by any other type of contribution organization. It's all nonsense. We want those organizations to do things that they can't do, and they're only going to do things for things that have no real meaning and will be useless. So that's three reasons, three reasons for which the senators all voted together to reject the law. And I beg you very much to do the same. To do the job again - that is, I am addressing the Minister of Finance - and properly, because I have never seen such damaged, damaged and to hell sent good intentions before. The intent is good. The budget needs to be kept. There's no need to be indebted. But it's not possible to do it so that there are holes anyway, the law is as leaky as a solution, to do so to destroy some communities and their investment options, and to make it unconstitutional. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, too, Senator. In the context of an open debate with priority rights, President Stanjura is reporting. Mr Vilímec, Mrs Kovářová, will be ready after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u10	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. If it turns out, as government MPs are calling it, you will definitely bury something called a financial constitution. And my colleague, Mr. Senator Vystrčil, used the word clown shop. I'd say that's a great hypocrisy. Let's start with what the Minister of Finance started. It says - it is implementation and we are the last in the EU, and if we do not, we are at risk of reputational risk or real sanctions. Hypocrisy - not us, but those other Member States. Yes, the 27 Member States have implemented this. Applause, great, great. How many of them are keeping it? Not many. Look at France, Italy, Greece, Spain. And now I can go on. But they have the mark. They're done. So we don't have it implemented, we manage much better than the states I've appointed, and many others, but yet someone has the courage, I'd say impertinence, to tell us that they're going to sanction us. For what? For managing better than them? And they have it in the law. Shouldn't we initiate sanctions against those who don't follow the rules? It doesn't matter if it's written in the law. The important thing is that you're acting this way. And the Czech Republic is acting like one. And we're gonna be afraid of someone? To tell us from these countries: Are you the bad guys, you don't have it in the constitution, or in the implementing law? We have it. But the self-confident Czech government and the self-confident Czech parliament will say well, and why aren't you following it? Where do you get the courage to criticize us if you don't keep it at all? That's hypocrisy. And we have enough to say if we're confident. And if anyone would like to sanction us for the management of the Czech Republic, it's ridiculous. Funny! That's the first thing. Second thing. We usually say from opposition benches when we consider some part of the law to be unconstitutional that we file a constitutional complaint. I don't think it will be necessary this time if the Social Democrat Senators live up to their public statements, e.g. Petr Vícha, Chairman of the Social Democracy Senator's Club, which says "if the House overrules us, I will be the first to sign a constitutional complaint." So this time, it will not depend on whether opposition Members will submit it. I'm assuming the senators will do it as a body. You heard the numbers. Relentless. It wasn't a political fight. That was the fight of those who look at it factually, rationally, with those who want a comma in Brussels. Because that's all it is. And didn't you hear a government statement like me yesterday, last week? Well, just like we're gonna approve, and we're gonna set up a novel. How many times have we heard this? Before the vote on the law, ministers are already saying - we're gonna set up a novel. And that's why it's not a financial institution. Whichever majority changes it, either in the right direction or in the wrong direction. That's not important at all. But let's remember how we got into that state. In the last parliamentary term, we did not find hearing from the left-wing opposition because they accepted, came up with a compromise proposal and helped us approve a constitutional law or a financial constitution. We have taken a different approach in this parliamentary term. We could have said, you didn't help us, we can't help you either. We have approached this differently, and we have found a compromise solution. And we had 120 votes, but if the Social Democrats, our biggest Euro-Hungarians, really thought they wanted a financial constitution. We could have approved it. We moved up to 55 percent when the debt brake comes in. We moved that logically then the Senator could not have the reservations that he was taking a different approach. [[15.40 hours]] After all, we have proposed, and we have voted on this together, so that, in the case of the 55 percent, the State should have an obligation to present a surplus or a balanced budget. No, you chose the rubber European definition that says: a budget that ensures sustainable public finances. But you've already removed the same rubber definition from the community. It's taken on by others and ordered on, and not on itself. And we can compare how much the total debt of the public sector is being made by the sub-sector - well that is also the expression of the sub-sector, the local authorities form the sub-sector of the public finance sector. And I know it's the right thing to do, but we're gonna get the dictionary in the first place. Our municipalities, cities and regions are sub-sectors. Let's ask. I'm sure the Minister here has the figures of how much this sub-sector is doing in total today's debt. Ridiculous. And if we were to take out the four largest cities, one of which is a region, it is absolutely nothing of all the other 6 241 municipalities, which form a substantial part of this sub-sector from the total sector. This debate is really awful! But you refused. For the state, you, as government Members, voted in favour of the rubber definition, I apologize, for the European-sounding definition, and not for the hard-balanced surplus, but for cities, municipalities and everyone else, as the senator said, you ordered a balanced or surplus budget. So the attitude is pretty clear. About the budget projections - they're just numbers for numbers. Almost all of you were sitting or sitting in some community council. Remember how much attention is paid to this in the debate at the council. It's done in an index method. Well, I have this year's budget, which defends the representation of the community or the region, logically, and they have to submit the next two years, so they're going to give 1.03 or 1.04. It'll pass without question, without notice. Logically, because it has no meaning. But we have 36,000 budget projections because that's for two years if we count one budget outlook per year. And for that, we have 18,000 budgets. And someone with a serious face in Brussels is saying that someone is able to read it and say: beware, beware, here in the contribution organization of this union of municipalities is threatened by a significant overrun of the total debt of this subsector, and thus the entire sector is threatened. It's crazy. To be fair, the compromise, the compromise agreement, did not reject the entire government coalition, but only the Czech Social Democratic Party. I've already said that in the last term. Those are the paradoxes. We want to fulfil the fiscal compact and we do not want to sign it, but we want to do it because it is good for the Czech Republic, and you as Eurohujeři want to sign it, but you do not want to do it. It was said at the time that it was just a bonmot, but this year you confirmed it clearly with the vote. You want to issue a press release, we finally have the law last, we've caught up with the shame, instead of saying and being proud of how in the 28 countries we're in, and that we're championed by those who have no right to champion us on this issue. In fact, both the CIP and some fellow Members have proposed to remove the disputed part, in our view, of the unconstitutional part. We voted on it. If you wanted to have a common law that is useless, it's not stable at all, so at least you could vote this part out of the bill before we sent it to the Senate. You refused again. So you can't say you didn't know about it, that she wasn't paying attention, that someone missed it. Of course, she paid attention to it and no one missed it. It was only for political-prestigious reasons so we could report it, we already have the law. But maybe we'll jump from that last place to the first place, and I would ask the Minister of Finance to see if any state has already prepared an amendment in the moment before the approval of this law. We may be the first, and we may be the last to approve, but most of the time, it's going to change. But I'm asking if that's the point. So we went from the Constitution to the ordinary law, and we incorporated it there, because it's better to point out the other, so we put the good-fashioned cities and municipalities there. The problem, of course, was with the smallest villages mentioned by the senator. I'm sure we don't all live in big cities. So ask the municipalities where there are 500, 1 000, 1 500 inhabitants, how much is the annual budget and how much is the investment in sewerage, for example. Compare it. Those are perfectly rational opinions that senators actually all, except maybe two or three, if I remember correctly the statistics of the vote. So we have a pretty simple decision-making process. Either we approve the hypocritical law by my words, the clown by the words of the senators, the useless law, just to report to Brussels that we already have something, we really won't solve anything, maybe we'll change it one more time in this parliamentary term, and in the next period several times, or we'll go back to political negotiations and try to find a constitutional majority that will ensure the adoption of a meaningful law. And I say, we were ready and ready to move forward in those two key parameters, both the overall percentage of debt to GDP and the fact that it is not a surplus or a balanced budget for the state, but it is the budget that will ensure sustainable development of budgets and public finances. It's that simple. Of course, I'm afraid he's going to win that forceful political-prestigious approach. Then you can still applaud, that would be a nice completion of a sad story about how the financial constitution in the Czech Parliament is being formed and accepted. But you didn't solve anything. So either we honestly admit that there are significant political forces here that don't want any financial institutions, the communists have always said it, I understand it, they never cared about money, everything was theirs, where they saw something, so they nationalized it, chop-chop, chop-chop, what would solve some budget questions, but with the Social Democrats it's all the more charming as they proudly claim to the European mainstream. It must be weird for you, maybe, as we say, so suspicious. Because first you laughed at us when we came up with the idea of a financial constitution, balanced budgets, and so on. You were strongly opposed. Then your socialist friends from the European Socialist Party pushed for it as a European policy, so suddenly it's in the mainstream, and suddenly you have to switch the switch and verbally support it. But again, I must admit that you are consistent with the content, that you have completely emptied it, that there is only the title left and that you firmly believe - and I think rightly - that your colleagues from the European Socialist Party will not translate this text from Czech into their native language and will not ask you: You are making fun of us, aren't you? The contents don't match the name at all. You just left the title. But maybe our pro-European prime minister will say, well, we have. We don't have this rest there anymore. Well, be happy, at least we have the title. But we think it's pretty damn little.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u11	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me - this is not quite the custom, but I would like to pay tribute to the Senate rapporteur in this case, because for the relatively long years I have been here, I have never heard such a substantive, non-ideological and yet clearly structured argument with which the Senate tells us why and for what reasons this bill is completely unacceptable. I think the Senate here has really done a very good job across the political spectrum. And those of us who listened should feel some shame, or at least the majority who voted that law, that we had the liberty of sending something like this to the Senate at all, and that then we need to hear these arguments here, which we can't doubt are true and that they are factual. President Stanjura was justly indignant about the fact that we might be threatened with sanctions if we didn't adopt this law. The European Union did not say that. That's what the Minister of Finance said. And I am a little surprised by my colleague Stanjur how he could have believed something like this in the well-known truthfulness of our Minister of Finance, and how it could have upset him at all. Of course, there are no sanctions. What we are at risk is a reputational risk if we accept such a pasquil and we are to issue a bill that speaks of everything but budgetary responsibility as a draft law on budgetary responsibility. [[15.50 hours]] Again, President Stanjura said: We want to respect the fiscal compact and do not want to sign it. Social democracy wants to sign it, signed it, but doesn't want to follow it. This is a well-known and long-trained bonmot, from which we are desperate, I will admit, especially the TOP 09, because the TOP 09 wished to sign and comply with the fiscalcompact, and in this sense we also offered our compromise that we would be happy to support the financial constitution, we would be happy to support the constitutional proposal on budgetary responsibility, if it is indeed a proposal on budgetary responsibility and if it is reflected that the financial constitution to which the government has applied will also be actually respected in its two main provisions, and that is Title Three and Title Four concerning the structural deficit - not normal, it is not a mantra. The European Union insists on the structural deficit and the amount of state debt. However, this compromise proposal was unacceptable because it would mean that what the government signed must also be reported to and observed. It's not the government's intention. I do not want to delay too much by what I am sure colleagues Vilímec and Kovářová will do, because they are experienced local politicians, and what the rapporteur has mentioned here means that the proposal of nitrogen, or almost to liquidate, for the management of small municipalities. Let me ask you another question, as the majority of this House should feel ashamed, that we have taken the liberty of sending something like this to the Senate at all, so I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance at least a rhetorical question as to whether the government feels ashamed. Because this wasn't a quickie. This law has been in question for at least two years. And if they haven't been able to eliminate all the obvious legislative flaws and lack of consistency between the text and the transitional and final provisions in two years, how can you even say that you're doing your job in a qualified manner? At the moment when the first Vice-President YES and the Chairman of the club YES - I wish him an early recovery - says "yes, of course, you are right, we will have to amend this quickly" - after two years of legislative work we are beginning to amend it, we have not yet approved it! Is that the quality of the work of the Czech Government? Has anyone apologized yet? Nobody's ever ashamed of anything like that! I'll sum it up to three points. The content of the law doesn't match the name. That's what I've argued in all the readings. If the bill were to be called a bill that allows any subsequent political representation to be budgetaryly irresponsible, we would not vote for it either, but it would at least be fair, because in such a case the bill would - the name of the law would correspond to the content. This is a law on budgetary responsibility, but it doesn't oblige anyone to do anything like that, it's just his name. It's very stupid to pretend to the public or to ourselves that we want budgetary responsibility when it's just called that, but the bill is about something else. Not just the content, but the fact that it's not constitutional. That means any political representation can change it at any time, as you change your spending limits every year. These are also part of the ordinary Act 280/2000 Coll., they should also be binding for you, and if they are not suitable for you, you will change them, you will increase them by 30 billion. This will be done by any equally irresponsible political representation like government parties, so, of course, whenever he does it with this law. What law on budgetary responsibility? First of all. The content of the law doesn't match his name. Two. The proposal eliminates the management of small municipalities. Three. It's an undercooked legislative paquilas. These are, in my view, three fundamental reasons for which I dare ask every responsible Member to agree with the Senate's position and ask the government to redo the pasquil. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u13	Thank you, too. I'll read an apology. Today, from 16 a.m. to the end of the meeting, Vice-President Gazdík apologizes. He will now speak properly in the debate. The first is Mr. Vilímec. Mrs Kovářová will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u14	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, the Senator has explained very precisely why the Senate rejected this bill that we sent him, or it is actually a pair of laws on budgetary responsibility that we sent them. Originally, there were three draft government laws on budgetary responsibility. It has been lying here in the Chamber of Deputies for a very long time. Since it was to be covered by the constitutional law, it did not seem very likely that it would be adopted. Moreover, it was clear from the outset that the proposals were unbalanced, unimaginable in many cases, and often very bad. I have already pointed out in the Chamber of Deputies that, while in the case of state finance, the government proposal is completely shallow, toothless and is no effective brake on the adoption of high government deficits, this law places many mines on the part of the authorities. I warned that the government's proposal could very much cripple the functioning of self-governing institutions. Even for the reason that amendments to the Act on budgetary rules of territorial budgets and other amendments to the laws are part of the two laws that the House eventually sent to the Senate or to the press. Laws, as we all know, have been pushed through by the government coalition at all costs, even if they do not actually have support in the constitutional law, because constitutional changes, as we know, have not been approved. In itself, this is a significant and unacceptable intervention in the constitutional right of municipalities to self-government. As you know, or I suppose you know, the law limits the possibility of taking credit from local authorities if the total debt of the public sector reaches 55 per cent. Regardless of whether the particular community is well managed, if it hasn't had any credit so far, it's free of any debts. It's just obviously a matter of conflict with the Constitution. At the same time, the bill suspends the transfer of a share in the tax return if the debt of a local government unit exceeds 60 per cent of the average of its income over the last four years. That is why I was aware of these serious effects, and as you may well remember, at the last moment I suggested removing the issue of the sub-sector of local authorities, from these laws, from these ordinary laws. On my part, it was more or less the last attempt to avoid unconstitutionality and totally unjustified interference with the rights of municipalities. I note that some of the adjustments to the budgetary rules of the territorial budgets, which has not actually been discussed here at all, that is the change law, they really do not have much to do with budgetary responsibility. As a result, they are just another bureaucratic burden for municipalities and regions and their contribution organisations. It's not just my personal assumption. Right after the law was passed, for example, the mayor of Domažlic contacted me asking whether the House even realizes what such an amendment to the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets will do in practice. [[16.00 hours]] That is why I welcomed, of course, the Senate's reaction and the fact that the Senate rejected these laws. The government coalition should be aware, and especially the ministers, that after the last elections, especially after the last elections, the upper chamber is not automatically an executor of the will of the government coalition. Newly elected senators and even existing ones are in many cases people with great experience in municipal or regional politics who are not afraid to mention the nonsense and faulty decisions of the government coalition in the Chamber of Deputies. In particular, the Chamber of Deputies and, above all, the government coalition should listen to the Senate on matters of local government. The Senate's decision and the number of votes 63 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u15	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering your speech, but the level of noise in the room is quite high. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u16	Thank you. The number of senators who voted to reject the laws, 63, is just a huge number. I do not remember, and I have been in the Chamber of Deputies for some time, that at times such an important law has returned the Senate with such a huge number of votes, or has rejected such a huge number of votes. This documentes that this law is indeed wrong. Even the senators of the government coalition, not only Senator Vystrčil, but also Mr Stanjura, have already pointed it out, clearly opposed. And I've read the Stenopis of the Senate meeting, so I'd just quote the statement by Senator Martínek, with whom I mostly disagree in the budgetary procedure. In the Senate, he said: "This law is a case of an incorrigible law, and it is unbelievable that it is a law that should be very important. " So much Mr. Senator elected for the Czech Social Democratic Party. Personally, I also tried to prepare for some senators possible amendments associated either with the modification of some parameters so called. debt brakes for local authorities or with the release of territorial authorities from these laws. For one simple reason. Even the principle of debt brakes in relation to local authorities is unthinkable and will do far more harm than good. I don't know where that number of 60 percent came from. Is it from the Maastricht criteria? But there it is bound to gross domestic product, not to annual income of one or another institution. And I was just trying to figure out what would happen if the government offensive applied this debt brake to the state budget. If it applied to the state budget, the 60 per cent of the debt over the four years of the state budget's annual revenue would be CZK 715 billion, which is just to be seen, with the current debt being about $600 billion or perhaps less. So you realize what we're talking about here. Mr Stanjura asked the Minister of Finance how much the subsector, now I will speak to municipalities and cities, actually shows debts. As of 31. 12. 2015 was less than 87 billion, of which four of the largest municipalities account for 50 percent of the debt, so we're talking about 40 billion. I would also like to say, and this did not come from the Senator's mouth, that the debt brake, the principle of 60 per cent, is essentially much more conducive to the regions than to the municipalities. Because the regions have one great advantage, that they can include in annual income flow grants, such as salaries in regional education or social services and so on. Therefore, no region, including Prague, is currently below 60 percent. But if you look at the municipalities, and they're not just small towns, the word of a small village still smells a little bit like ideality to me, they're also big cities, even statutory cities that currently exceed the 60 percent. The municipalities and cities are 505, as Minister Pelikán said, representing the Minister of Finance in the Senate. Yes, it is not even 10 percent of the total number of municipalities. Yet there are not only small municipalities, but also large statutory cities and cities that have taken credit for financing projects with the support of the European Union. I don't think it's something you can wave your hand over. It's not something that isn't even worth a more detailed discussion. And here I have to say, or more detailed on the side of the Minister of Finance. [[unintelligible]] Unfortunately, there was no debate here. The government coalition just didn't want to tick another point out of its coalition agreement. She did it unhappyly, I'd say even amateurish. I'm not gonna talk about details, but apparently she didn't really care. Even as the government coalition decided, she doesn't care now. In my opinion, the Senate does not return these laws because perhaps the Czech Republic should not have a law that restricts the possibility of creating excessive deficits. However, this law will not lead to a more responsible management of the state or municipalities. This law will not protect public finances, but it will become a major threat to the management of municipalities and cities. The rejection of the Senate is therefore an opportunity for either existing political representation or others to prepare a better law, to adopt a law that will truly benefit public finances and not harm them. I believe that, despite different political views, we all agree here that Parliament should adopt quality laws and not standards that are obviously flawed by legislation, I will not draw attention to the shortcomings, because we would have been here for a long time, and, above all, will obviously hurt the authorities. When we talked about the municipalities, you must have received a letter from the President of the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, Mr Lukl, you could read it. I am not hiding, I am chairman of the Financial Commission of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, and I have not seen such a united view of the mayors in any meeting. None of the mayors defended this bill. Therefore, I would like to call on you, I will not prolong it, so that by voting you will support the rejection of this law by the Senate, regardless of what the government coalition has agreed. To vote responsibly also in relation to the consequences that could arise and to vote against the proposed resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u17	Thank you, too. I don't see anyone with priority rights. In that case, Mrs Kovářová will speak, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u18	Ladies and gentlemen, there have been a number of arguments which are of interest to the municipalities and their development. I would like to draw attention to one important question, namely whether the proposal put forward does not conflict with the European Charter of Local Authorities, which could be a rather serious problem, I suppose also from a constitutional point of view. In Article 9, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 The European Charter of Local Authorities states that local communities have the right, within the economic policy of the State, to adequate own financial resources with which they are free to dispose under their powers. I therefore consider that some of the provisions of the law on which we will vote today may conflict with this article. Therefore, I would like to ask the Minister whether and how he is looking at this serious issue, and I would ask him this time for an answer within the framework of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Fiedler will now appear, Mr Karamazov will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As is my custom, I follow closely, or I often do, a debate, and I think there have been a number of interesting facts and arguments. As the previous speakers have said, the justification of the Senate representative is quite logical, factual to me, I understand him, and we should all be aware, colleagues, that when voting in the Senate of 67 present 63 senators had a unified negative opinion. It's a pretty strong unity. This should be an argument for us to think seriously about and consider whether the positions of the MPs - which, as you know, does not concern me as a non-attached Member - are really not to be considered and say whether the arguments put forward by the Senate and fellow senators are of no use to me. I looked at the vote on the approval of this law as a whole in the third reading in the Chamber of Deputies. At that time 169 Members were present, namely 85, and 101 Members voted in favour. If we have to revote the Senate 101 today and 159 Members are present at the moment, or 10 less than at the time when 101 votes have been approved, I think that if a few Members are really considering it, then the vote could turn out differently. I confess that I am the one who was among the 101s who were in favour of, albeit with some reservations and comments, but with the opinion that something like this is needed. However, the arguments put forward by Senator Vystrčil were quite clear to me and I really hesitate now to confirm my original opinion - which I do not usually have the habit of changing my views and I stand by them unless I am convinced by the arguments. And here I think that this is what happens that the arguments are convincing enough - I am not squeamish enough not to give in to arguments that are convincing to me. I think it is an appropriate opportunity here to show what has been said, this time I will tell my colleagues from the right-wing part of the House, to show, as the chairman of the budget committee Votava says, that we are a sovereign like the House. So let us show that we are a sovereign like the House and that we will not jump on every stupid thing that is ordered from Brussels. Especially at a time when, fortunately, we can now say that some budgetary responsibility, the rules of budgetary responsibility, maybe they are not really on the agenda of the day, and let us put sound judgment over some possible electoral promises, as my former MP said, that this should be observed. I think it is real without any consequences and sanctions, so that, eventually, either this Chamber of Deputies or others, think about it really, and I would like to ask and call on colleagues, I have already said it here last time - I think it would not be from the point of view if coalitions and opposition listened a little more, listened to their arguments, did not just build it strictly, and priori who is a coalition, voted in favour of who the opposition is. Let's think about this pragmatically and really. I wonder how the vote will turn out. I've indicated my point of view. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u21	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read an apology. Today, from 16.30 to the end of the day, Mrs Nina Nováková apologises for personal reasons. I have here one factual comment by Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u22	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues, I would like to respond here to Mr Fiedler. Unlike him, I don't think the financial constitution is stupid from Brussels. The fact that we're making a fool of her here is the other side. On the contrary, I think that this is a very good thing, and if we were to proceed as was the intention of Brussels, we would not have to argue here today. But I'd like to say another thing. The minister here said that de facto the question of the ammunition, the sub-sector - that if they didn't follow those things, that there wasn't actually any sanctions. I don't think we should argue that way, if I understand correctly. Because the law has to be followed. And who other than institutions should follow the law? Conscious circumvention or non-compliance is, I would say, a socially very dangerous matter and, of course, also subsequently politically very well exploitable. There's one thing that bothers me that might not have come up. Maybe the Minister didn't mean it that way, to be honest and not to push something that might not have come out. But I think there's sanctions, and that's a 5% reduction in income from that RUD, from that budget tax determination. And that's kind of a paradox, too. You're short of money, you're in debt, and the state's response is to suspend 5 percent of your RUD income. I really don't know where we are. I think that the problem that arose elsewhere and which needs to be solved in another sphere, we threw it directly on the ammunition, where the problem is minimal. I have to say, I heard a reminder here once, an anecdote that's a camel. He's a horse who's been through a legislative process in the House. So we made a big camel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Another point of fact is made by Mr Fiedler. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u24	Just for a little while. I thank my colleague Adamc for correcting my words. Basically, I can say that I agree with the way my performance commented on it. Maybe I didn't say exactly. This is, of course, a sensible and necessary matter, which is why I voted in favour of it at the third reading in the Chamber of Deputies. When I was talking about not jumping on it, I responded rather to the arguments and ideas made by colleague Stanjura, the chairman of the MP's club, about not being in that position, or that we were in that position where we should not be criticized by those who are much worse off. Just a little while, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u25	Thank you. So now duly entered into the general debate by Mr Karamazov. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u26	Dear colleagues, the information on why the Senate rejected the bill on budgetary responsibility has already been heard. I am not a constitutional lawyer and therefore I will leave my fellow lawyers to judge whether or not the bill is unconstitutional. I will also leave aside the fact that the bill completely illogically otherwise approaches the state and other local authorities. However, I would like to make one comment. We hear about budgetary responsibility from all sides. It is not, perhaps, a political speech to make sure that he does not mention budgetary responsibility in some way. It's just fashionable today. However, I ask you, what has the current parliamentary term managed to do in the direction of budgetary responsibility in legislation? We all know the answer - nothing has been done. The citizens' Democratic Party tried to make a financial constitution, we were not successful. Even the TOP 09 in this parliamentary term came up with similar efforts. We supported her, but most of the others did not. It seems therefore to me, ladies and gentlemen, that there are few of us, those who want to be truly budgetaryly responsible. On the part of social democracy in particular, I see here rather an effort to do everything to ensure that budgetary responsibility is not enacted, even at a legal, let alone constitutional level. There's a logic to it. The budgetary responsibility with populist policy, when it is necessary to buy votes as many voters as possible, is not much in common. I therefore appeal to you, if you seriously intend to address budgetary responsibility, let us start working together on a compromise proposal. However, I do not consider a compromise proposal to be a government obligation to process some kind of declaration of sustainable growth. If we really want to be budgetaryly responsible, it is necessary to lay down as budgetary measures the obligation to present a balanced, virtually. surplus budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u27	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone, in which case, if no one checks in, I'm done with the debate. We will now proceed to the final words. First, then, the Senator, then the appellant and the rapporteurs. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u28	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the debate, with me trying to respond to some of the things that have been said here. First, I don't know if any of you were looking at the European directive that we are implementing, but the directive has 1, 2, 3, 4 pages saying that, in my opinion, even if it's a layman's opinion, it certainly doesn't force us to do what we wrote in our law. For example, in the case of so many popular sub-sectors, the directive says that Member States will ensure that the public has timely and regular access to fiscal data for all sub-sectors in the general government sector. In other words, the directive says that we should always have data about the whole, about municipalities, universities, etc., but not about individual institutions, as we do in our law. That means we're going beyond the directive, and I think we're more papal than the Pope, as usual. [[There is noise in the hall, Members speak in the benches and in the noisy.]] Second thing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u29	I apologize, Senator, for entering into your speech, but again, I will ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u30	If my colleagues and colleagues are discussing how they could change their parliamentary club resolutions, I am okay with that. As far as the amendments are concerned, of course, we in the Senate have also been thinking about trying to correct the law, but he is incorrigible. At least not at the time the Senate has to deal with the law. And if, thanks to the will of the Chamber of Deputies, we were given a 60-day deadline to discuss the law, it might help a little bit in the case of this law. The third thing I forgot to mention, which was accentuated here by my colleague Vilímec, and I thank him for that, is that the law is actually discriminatory towards the municipalities. And while it says to the municipalities that they should not be indebted to more than 60 percent of their average income over the last four years, the state has already broken it and it doesn't mind at all, and it treats the municipalities completely differently and it is nonsense. It also treats health insurance companies, universities and other members of those public institutions differently. As far as compliance is concerned, that was interesting. When I was preparing for a performance in the Chamber of Deputies, I thought to myself, "I'm sure there'll be someone here in the Czech Republic now that he's presenting the bill, who might already be able to get on the train himself and try to meet the conditions in that law. So I started looking for the Treasury budget. I don't mean the state budget - the Treasury budget. I couldn't find it. So I didn't even look for the Ministry of Finance's budget outlook anymore, because, of course, it doesn't exist either. Just as there is no budget perspective and budget published, I think published on the Internet, Customs Administration, General Financial Directorate. That means those who make the law here, they don't do the law themselves today, they don't have to, they don't. But they didn't even try to build budgetary projections. So I thought, at least I'll try the European institutions. So I started looking for a budget, and I thought of Frontex. It is paid out of European money and should be governed by these rules because the European Commission has issued them. There I found no budget for Frontex at all. It does not exist, it is not mentioned anywhere, let alone the budgetary perspective. It's actually nonsense, isn't it, from how the agency works? So someone who doesn't do things from the level of the European Commission itself suddenly sets out a directive that should tell us how to do it. Then I would like to thank Mr Fiedler for saying that he will perhaps change his mind. I think this is such a good example for some of the other Members. Good examples are drawn, so let us believe that this will also be the case with the vote on this law. And one last thing. Please, it's not that the law is dangerous only for communities. It's not like that! I'm not just representing the community here. It is so that the law is senseless and dangerous, for example. for health insurance companies, e.g. for universities, e.g. various organisational components and other government bodies. The law's no good, it's no good, it's no good, it's no good. And I ask you very much to consider how you will vote and to confirm the Senate resolution and to vote in such a way that the law is rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u31	Thank you. I will now ask the plaintiff, the Minister, for a final word, and then the rapporteur for this press. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am so sorry -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u33	I'm sorry again, but I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to keep it down! If there's anything you need to do, go to the lobby, please! Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u34	I regret that the Senator does not know that the chapter of the Ministry of Finance and Financial Administration and Customs is part of the state budget. It's really surprising information that you don't know. So I don't understand how we can have any professional debate. I'm always fascinated by how the parties act in opposition and coalition. This is a draft of the very same law from the ODS pen, 2012. Exactly the same! The exact same text, Mr Stanjur, Mr Kalousek, Members through Mr President. You were the Minister of Finance, too. [[The President points out: through me, Minister.]] Yes, through you, Minister of Transport. That's your 2012 law. [[He's showing the lyrics.]] It's exactly the same! Exactly the same. Have you forgotten that? Why didn't you enforce him by 2013? So I don't understand how perfectly you can do it here, and here's Mr. Senator for ODS, he's still in ODS today, I hope, so that's your proposal, Senator. Just like we did. I'm usually pulling stuff out of drawers at the Treasury Department. The central account register and the other things you wanted and you couldn't do it. So this is your proposal, it's exactly the same. The proposal of the ODS and Mr Kalousek, ex-minister of finance from 2012. On 22 May 2012, the Ministry of Finance submitted material to the Government, which contained an identical rule for municipalities, which is in the current proposal. And it was in the constitutional law. So the exact same thing you gave and approved by the government, we're now, it's on the table. So I don't understand what we're talking about when it's the same. This is really - where's the clown shop, please? Where's the clown shop? So one more time. I'm not really interested in Brussels. I'm interested in budgetary responsibility. And I am terribly sorry that the Member States must be told by Brusel that they should not be indebted. I know that. Because I came from another world. And that's where when you go into debt, you go bankrupt. And when someone gets in debt, the bailiff comes in. So I don't really understand the debate at all. I agree with Mr Stanjura that it is a pity that this has not passed as a constitutional law. We tried, Mr. Deputy Gregor spent a lot of time on it, so did I. Reminder management of all, also municipalities and regions, all, took place in 2014. We're in 2017. It's a birth! It's a reputation thing. That's what credit rating agencies read. So I think we should finally accept that you should have done it already. It is the same proposal as the 2012 opposition proposal. Then I don't understand what we're talking about. [[16.30 hours]] I'd like to say to people that he's such a feeling that communities, regions actually live in a vacuum, that some money is coming from I don't know where from. But they're all tax people. From taxpayers' taxes. And because we manage to collect taxes, municipalities work great. They have a surplus of 18.43 billion last year. Together with the regions, they even have a surplus of 56 billion. At the same time, their debt is falling. The municipalities have 140 billion in their accounts. Crowns. So we're assuming it's gonna work this year. Why is this gonna work? Because we have a higher RUD since 1 January 2017. So the debate is about nothing, because the government's debt is 5.6 percent, and we're talking about 60 percent. I really don't understand what we're talking about. And most importantly, you didn't tell the taxpayers the one thing that pays the taxes that we all live from, that if any mayor manages irresponsiblely and pre-debts and goes bankrupt, the taxpayers will pay. You can't pretend like you don't belong in public budgets. We all live on taxes. If you had suggested that the other municipalities would vouch for some community that's bankrupt, but I didn't hear that. So I don't understand why this is a debate. It's a lie that it's liquidation for the community. It's not true. What does it say? It is said that if someone has more than 60 percent of the debt, the difference between 60 and, say, 80 must be paid back 5% of the difference per year. And that's vanquishing? It's not vanquishing at all. And no one can stop him from budgeting his taxes. Nobody's gonna stop his taxes. I'm so sorry you're having this conversation in this direction. I thought the right was budgetaryly responsible and that this was true for everyone because we all live on taxes. The tax revenue of the municipalities for 2016 was 189,9 billion. This is an increase of 14 billion compared to 2015. and a further increase of 8 billion is expected for 2017. We have even increased the contribution to public administration performance by 9 per cent and we are counting on another 5 per cent. The municipalities will become more and more income. And they really do well, they have a surplus, their debt is minimal. So it's all theoretical. It's nothing about Brussels. It is not because Brussels, it is because we are to be budgetaryly responsible and that we cannot allow anyone to be budgetaryly irresponsible to overpay the community, and then all taxpayers will pay for it. As Mr Vilímec spoke through Mr President that this is a problem, etc. bohužel, Mr. Vilímec is having trouble distinguishing between cash flow and debt reduction. It's not like that. I think the terms should apply to everyone. We're just presenting what you wanted. I'm really surprised by these performances. I would like to ask all Members to actually approve this because public budgets are going well, the state budget is going well, the municipal budgets are going well, we are still improving it. We are talking within the RUD Committee about further RUD increases from 2018. So I really don't understand resistance, because all this stuff that's designed here is just on a theoretical level. I repeat - 60 per cent and 5.6 per cent. It's gonna go down. I would be very pleased and I would ask for this in the interest of our reputation, the reputation of the Czech Republic in the financial markets, so that we do not spoil this parameter, which is absurd, because Brusel advises us, I do not understand, in the normal world people know that they should not be in debt, otherwise the executor or the company will come bankrupt, but it is so, we live in this community and we should be the last in Europe to comply. And I thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u35	Thank you, too. I'm registering your applications with priority rights. For the sake of order, I say that the debate is closed and only Members of Parliament and Members with priority rights can speak. I'm filing two applications. First up, President Stanjura, then President Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u36	I'm a little embarrassed because I haven't seen the defense of a coalition partner shown by the Minister of Finance in a long time. But it's nice to see him defending the Social Democrats. If you have noticed, I clearly said in my speech who we were prepared to support the compromise with, it was the Ministry of Finance and the movement YES, and who did not allow the compromise by voting, it was the Czech Social Democratic Party. As usual, the Minister interpreted it as an attack on his person. But I actually said that we were prepared to support the compromise with you. And now I'm gonna try to explain to you what the difference is. All you say is something and you say it's 100% true. If we were just like you, that means resigning to constitutional law, keeping the title of the financial constitution, we'd already voted it out in the last parliamentary term. The majority, the simple majority, we had safely. But we did not have any opposition that was prepared to compromise with the government's majority and approve the constitutional bill. And neither are you! As a matter of fact, you had opposition, each had a different condition. We chose ours, too, and I am satisfied that you were ready to compromise with us, but this part of the government coalition failed and stopped looking for the compromise. And I said who it was. They were Social Democrats. So I think it's a true description of the situation and that I don't hit all the government parties at the same time because the difference in the vote was different. If you're blaming us for not adopting a constitutional law, we didn't have anyone to talk to. But you didn't succeed either. Unlike you, we did not choose to do it by simple law, because then the stability of the law is no longer, and you yourself say that it will be amended. We haven't approved yet, and you're already saying it's going to be amended. I'm not saying that you, but some of the government officials, from the government ministers, say that. That's the first difference. In our proposal, which you quoted, there was also a sentence that the state had to draw up a surplus or a balanced budget, so we treated the proposal as much as everyone else. In that case, the legitimate reproach of the Senate and the individual senators and many of us for treating someone differently would have passed away. We treated everyone the same way. At the moment when the debt brake percentage was filled, we pulled the brake and all had a duty to draw up a balanced or surplus budget. Everyone - from the state, contribution organizations, health insurance companies, municipalities. Maybe it's strict, but it's exactly what you said, it's supposed to apply to everyone. In your proposal, it only applies to someone. You have a definition under pressure from social democracy of sustainable public finances. But that's just the state, this rubber definition, where you can then - as I would say politely - chat and say: that's it, but not the community anymore. That's the first difference that we treated everyone the same way. The second difference is that we wanted a constitutional law and we couldn't find most of it. But neither are you, so we're exactly the same. You're not one step ahead. And don't be surprised when we compromised, we came to you. The percentage is higher than we suggested 55 percent. There are no single stages. We had several stages there, from 43 percent of GDP we have already taken certain steps, so that the brake doesn't have to pull so hard. We were willing to accept that too and do it at once. Finally, we were prepared and voted in favour of the rubber definition within the framework of the stability of the law, which means that it is a constitutional law. Then I don't know why you're attacking us. That's where you should attack, they don't want it, not us. We agreed to compromise with the Ministry of Finance. If the Social Democrats had voted in favour, the constitutional law would have passed and we would have a real financial constitution. Not in the shape that we would have imagined, but in the shape for which we were prepared to vote. Remember the four amendments that I tabled here, either reducing the threshold from 55 to 50, and at the same time putting a surplus or balanced budget there. And we were willing for the softest option, that is. 55 per cent and sustainable public finances. [[16.40 hours]] So direct your criticism to your coalition partner, not to us. We wanted it in the last parliamentary term, we wanted it in this parliamentary term, and we even stepped out of our much better proposal towards you in order to find some consensus. And you had the luxury of at least offering you some compromise. To us at the time, the leftist one, she said no. And we didn't go that way. And that's what we had votes for, but that's basically worthless law, and it's not the stability that we're calling for. And I only talked about Brussels because it was the first two sentences that you started your speech, Minister. The first two sentences in today's performance were that we were the last and that we had to do it. That's all. Otherwise, we have long been saying, and we were much sooner than Brusel, that we should do it because of the Czech Republic, not because of Brusel, that it is good for us. That other people want it, fine, but it's important to us. Unfortunately, the left-wing section of the Chamber of Deputies does not want this, I respect it, but the culprit, that there is no constitutional law, do not look in the right-wing opposition, but look to your left-wing coalition partner. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u37	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u38	I've been listening with great interest. I see you're pretty good at this coalition. But, Minister, I want to keep my head down. Concluding against the fact that the bill is identical to what we presented in 2012. Just the parameters of budgetary responsibility and sanctions imposed when they are not respected were completely different from that of this law. I still remember it by heart today because I had been discussing it for two years and I desperately begged someone from the opposition at least for a hint of compromise. So what is in this law today is completely different from the parameters of budgetary responsibility that you have in the contents of the ordinary law. I'm sure I'm willing to bet on it. But betting with you is of no use, because you do not pay for lost bets, but I am willing to bet with any other fellow Members and it is really a completely different law in my parameters of budgetary responsibility. Now I don't remember what the criteria for the budgetary responsibility of the municipalities were, maybe there really was an identity, however, at the moment that I would be brought to the attention of the legislative process, I would certainly withdraw my ears and I would like to correct it, because that was the last thing that mattered to me. What really mattered to me was the parameters of the budgetary responsibility of government management. And then I'm going to have to ask myself, what's the deal with Brusel? The discussion started by you telling us something here, which I absolutely do not believe we are at risk of sanctioning the non-approval of this law, which warmed up my colleague doběla and began to say: What is to be mastered for our management? I was reassuring him that it wasn't true, that it really had nothing to do with Brusel and that we weren't in danger of sanctions, and now you come out in the final word and say, "This has nothing to do with Brusel." We're doing this for ourselves. I think so, too. But why did you lie to us at the beginning of your speech that we were facing sanctions? Well, there isn't! That's right. And you told us here. It's almost every day that you tell us something that's not true, but it's almost pointless in such things. You wouldn't have to do this all the time, Minister. Do it only if you consider it necessary. You guys have it like your sport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u39	Thank you. Your application, Senator, has been registered, but I have also checked with the legislation that, after the final word, when the debate is closed, you can no longer speak under the Rules of Procedure. I'm registering your request, Mr. Chairman, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u40	We don't often have a case like this, but I don't agree with the interpretation, and I want to ask you: you gave the final word to the senator. That's right. [[- Yes.]] So he obviously has a preferential right at this point, because he is neither the plaintiff nor the rapporteur. So either you've broken the Rules of Procedure once, or you want to break it now. Either he has priority rights, and then he has the final word, or he has the right to sign up if that point is not yet over, and he hasn't finished, or he hasn't even had the right to the final word. I don't know what. I think he has the right to speak in both cases. I'd like a five-minute break to clarify the legislation so they can give us some advice on how the senator got the floor. If we can find the paragraph that gave him that word, I'm sure he can do it now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u41	Okay. I repeat that I asked if he could speak with priority rights after the debate was closed, I was told that he could not. That means, I will verify, interrupt for five minutes, clarify the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and then we will proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss this point. For the record, I have given the Senator my word of decency after the conclusion of the debate so that he can assess for himself the course of the debate, even though the Rules of Procedure do not regulate this. That's why I can't give him my word repeatedly. In any case, we have found a solution to reopen the debate so that the Senator can respond to the previous debate with priority rights. Mr. Secretary, do you report? Please, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u43	Good afternoon, honourable Members. I would like to say hello at this afternoon and say that I look forward to a debate that is about to start.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u44	Thank you for your cooperation. Thanks to the reopening of the debate, please, Senator, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u45	Mr President, honourable Members, thank you for the opportunity. I'll try not to abuse it. First thing. Mr. Finance Minister, I'm sorry. I didn't realize that the Ministry of Finance's budget was part of the state budget, so I'm withdrawing my complaint. I think even to apologize you must be able to. Now, about the other things I want to say. I have made three arguments here about why the law should not be passed and should be rejected. Argument number one - unconstitutionality, respectively. Unconstitutionality. The plaintiff's response is zero! No rebuttal of this comment. The second argument - the law is discriminatory against municipalities. This concerned section 14 and section 17. The plaintiff's response - Section 14 zero, once again no rebuttal of what I said. Paragraph 17 - a 60 per cent story that was not true, because there are really cases where it is not possible for municipalities to invest further, because all municipalities that are in debt more than 60 per cent will be listed in the Ministry of Finance's register, everyone will know, and the mayor will never allow any investment again. All those who did in self-government know that if you're on some kind of criminal record, you'll never get anything like mayors, virtually. You won't allow the council. Reminder number three - the law is bureaucratic and leaky as a colander. The plaintiff's response is zero! This means, of the three arguments in total, half the answer to one argument. That means one-sixth answer to my reservations. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u46	Thank you. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u47	I'm sorry. So I will respond to the constitutionality, but I repeat that our proposal is exactly the same as the ODS presented by Mr Kalousek in May 2012. The difference is, it was constitutional back then. We had a constitutional one, too. The truth is, Mr Stanjura, that unfortunately you have not found insight in the coalition since the beginning with the ČSSD. That's right. And as far as constitutionality is concerned, the attorneys of the Office of the Government have confirmed that, in their opinion, the proposal is not unconstitutional. The fact that certain rights of municipalities and regions can be restricted by law also results, for example, from a decision of the Constitutional Court. The legal arrangement for suspending the transfer of a share in the tax return does not interfere with the constitutionally guaranteed right to self-government. The constitution, generally expressed by the right to self-government, must certainly not be emptied by the legislature, but it is certain that the legislature has a wide scope for determining matters best managed at local or regional level without major intervention by the central government. It can be concluded from the provisions of both the Constitution and the Charter that legal restrictions and guidelines for the operation of local authorities are admissible. In its entirety, these rules cannot, of course, completely eliminate the territorial government. However, individual adjustments can be quite strict and binding if justified reasons are important. The founding of the Constitutional Court is the file mark Pl. ÚS 34/02. The Constitution says, Article 101: 1) The municipality is independently managed by the council. 2) The higher local authority unit is independently managed by the council. 3) Territorial self-government units are public corporations that can own their own property and manage according to their own budget. 4) The State may intervene in the activities of local authorities only if it requires the protection of the law and only in the manner laid down by law. The proposal does not at all dictate how the municipalities are to deal with the property, i.e. for which purposes they are to use the funds. The proposal merely states that, in the event of excessive debt, the municipality should slow down and set its finances in order. That's all. And the rest, I repeat, is the same proposal as you put forward, right, 2012, only then was constitutional. We had a constitutional one, too. I couldn't, so at least I hope we have a normal law because we need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u48	Thank you. I don't see anyone else in the debate. Isn't that right? [[This is the messenger. Villaman.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador. Okay, you're downloading your application. Thank you. As I see no one else, I am ending the debate. For the sake of order, I will ask again if the Minister wants to take the final floor at this moment. It's not like that. In that case, rapporteurs. First, I ask Mr Václav Votava if he wants the final word. It's not like that. Mr. Jiří Koubek, if he wants the final word. It's not like that. Ambassador Martin Plíšek? Not either. And Mrs Soňa Marková? He doesn't want the final word either. Thank you. Before we proceed to the vote - a break was initially announced. [[Gesticulation of the chairman of the club ČSSD.]] Okay, you're not taking a break. I'm registering your application for check-out. Then I'll call in my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby. I'm going to sign you all off and ask you to re-enlist with your cards. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed. So I'm going to ask you to set up the kvora that it already is. So before the vote, I will read the motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill on budgetary responsibility rules under the House of Press 412/10'. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 149; 171 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 104, against 62. I state that the bill has been passed. Thank you both to the Minister and to the Senator, and I am done discussing this point. The debate is not open. It's... [[An explanation from the diaper.]] Of course, about the vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u49	Currently, even a voting device can go crazy. And I actually voted in favour, and I have a cross. But I'm not questioning the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u50	For screen recording only. Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u51	Thank you. I'm just gonna... Mr. Senator Vystil was very qualified here. Hat off. But what I have to say and make a point to the previous Senator Hajda. He was talking here, defending something, an amendment to the wine law. The law is very acidic. What the Minister of Agriculture produced here. However, look at Senator Hajda's résumé and compare it to what he said here. If somebody's promoting clientelistic capitalism, there was a classic demonstration here. In his case, I consider him to be the one to be sent here by the senát, and he's coming here as a conflict of interest. Thank you. And did you hear anything here that he called it in? No way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u52	Okay. I'm just saying, for the record, it's good to talk about people who are present in the hall, not those who aren't here. Thank you. As I said, I have finished discussing this point and thank you both to the Minister and to the Senator. And I'm handing over the meeting proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-003-003.u53	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Before we proceed, allow me to state the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 15.30 to today, Mrs Miloslava Rutová apologises, and between 17.30 and 19 hours for work reasons also Mr Skalický. We will continue with the point
