ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u1	284. Information of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the issue of high-speed lines On this point, we also received House Document 5269, which contains the resolution of the Economic Committee No 339 of its 44th meeting of 6 November 2016. I'm going to ask the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok to take the floor at the rapporteur's desk. I am asking the same thing from the rapporteur of the Economic Committee of Mr Karel Šidl. And at the same time, Minister, don't even sit down, I'll give you, if there's any peace, a word for your performance. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the debate has recently been intensified and, above all, the issue of rapid rail transport in the Czech Republic has been shifted. I am glad that extensive discussions on the subject of fast rail transport are conducted not only in the professional but often also in the lay public. These discussions make it important to ensure high-quality rail transport services for the population of the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Transport has prepared a material called Program for the Development of Fast Rail Connections in the Czech Republic, which currently passes through the settlement of comments after inter-ministerial commentary management. After completing the settlement of a large number of comments, which show how broad and diverse ideas about the application of this system in the Czech Republic exist, this document will be submitted to the Government of the Czech Republic so that the government can approve such material and decide on another extraordinary stage in the development of railway transport in our territory. In evaluating the possibility of further development of the transport service solution of the Czech Republic, the development of fast connections consisting in the combination of the construction of new high-speed lines and the completion of the modernisation of the conventional network of higher parameters in order to ensure quality and competitive railway operators was recommended for further monitoring. The biggest problems with which the development of the new railway infrastructure will have to be met are the lengthy authorisation processes for the new construction of transport infrastructure, which make the preparatory stages of the necessary new buildings very difficult and longer. Another major problem is the relatively high investment and operational intensity of planned high-speed line constructions, which according to current available data will require investment of at least 500 billion. CZK in the current price level for the construction of the basic skeleton of fast connections. At this point, we are deciding on investments that will take place mainly at a time for which the possibility of co-financing from European Union funds is not yet known. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to express your support for our progress towards the further development of fast rail transport, with the knowledge of its great investment intensity. I also ask you to support the preparation or amendment of key laws in order to anchor the issue of fast connections in the legal order of the Czech Republic. It is your support that can help substantially modernize railway transport in the Czech Republic and ensure modern parameters of transport operations corresponding to the 21st century. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u3	Thank you, Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I state Mr Stanislav Berkovec's apology at 12 o'clock. With an apology to all of you, I forgot in my introductory words to remind you that by 11 o'clock you can apply for oral interviews that will be drawn at 11:30 p.m. I'm fixing that now. Now, then, the word of the rapporteur of the economic committee, Karel Šidl. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Members of the government, my dear colleagues, allow me very briefly to comment on the opening of the debate on the item of presentation of the Transport Minister's report on the construction and preparation of the high-speed line building programme, which is called Quick Connections in the Czech Republic. Even if I'm the rapporteur from the opposition, I'll allow myself to launch this performance a little untraditionally. I must thank the Minister because you yourself could see in the Chambers of Documents that the resolution of the Economic Committee was a challenge not only to take steps to implement the high-speed line building programme, but also to create a working group at the level of the Minister of Transport of the Czech Republic, which will not only have representatives of individual members of the Ministry of the Czech Republic, that it will have representatives of the professional public, but also the political will of the entities that are in the Chamber of Deputies through its members in the Economic Committee. This is the first time in 26 years when the Minister of the Government of the Czech Republic has taken quite seriously the call and request of the Economic Committee to act intensively and cooperate on the topic of high-speed rail. Whatever has led him to do this, I think it is worth the attention of the Chamber of Deputies, and the Chamber of Deputies should give sufficient political space for the opening steps to be taken. I would like to react very briefly to the Minister's speech in the sense that we who have been actively involved for many years in order that this segment of railway transport is located in the Czech Republic, when in the past 26 years the Czech Republic has gotten off the network of high-speed lines of Europe, and unfortunately it is at the expense of having lower passability on individual lines, we cannot work effectively with individual stress currents in passenger and freight transport, and of course all of this is reflected in the comfort of operating the transport territory of the Czech Republic and, of course, the services that are provided to citizens in transport, and especially in rail transport. I think this path is the right way, but there are three areas that need to be addressed. As colleagues who worked together on this topic in the Economic Committee, we have prepared a form of resolution in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, which should result in today's debate and today's efforts to open this problem publicly to the citizens of the Czech Republic through the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. We have tried to build this resolution in a logic that should meet three fundamental objectives. The first objective is that this document, this resolution in its own way recommends and obliges the government of the Czech Republic to create a serious document that will go beyond more electoral periods. I don't need to explain to you that building a high-speed rail network is a very long-term issue that has a number of peripetia that must be fulfilled when there is already the will of the executive, namely the Czech government. That is why it is imperative that this document has in it measures that go beyond the end of this parliamentary term, the end of the mandate of this government and the Minister of Transport. [[9.30 hours]] The second thing that we are dealing with most often and has been discussed very often in the House is the issue of building a state-owned transport infrastructure, and this is the problem that all the construction of this transport infrastructure is dragged out due to the impact of individual amended laws, which are concerned with construction, or by the construction of any network or line construction in the Czech Republic. The second area must contain legislative steps from individual ministries of the government of the Czech Republic, where they will be obliged to prepare legislation in accordance with the programme for building this network of high-speed railways, namely all transport infrastructure networks in the Czech Republic. It's a very complicated process. At the first meeting of the working group set up by the Minister, we met with positive feedback from representatives of individual ministries, whether it concerns land, whether it concerns preparatory steps of project plans, that is, building permits, project preparation, etc. etc. I don't want to name it all here. But the response was very positive, and there was even consent that the need we are talking about is high for this transport infrastructure in the Czech Republic. And in order to continue my remarks and opinions, allow another third area, which is equally serious and also affects the length of construction, the length of preparation and, of course, the time when it will be implemented, and that is the question of funding. It is without condition that the way in which this transport infrastructure is financed is also reflected in today's resolution, particularly in order for the government to adopt its long-term objective of financing this transport infrastructure in the necessary time, in the years, whether with the support of the European resources that we still have a chance to achieve, or without the support of European resources. It is a very expensive matter to build this network and, on the other hand, it must be declared that the funds will be sufficient and allocated at the right time and, as it would be said, at the right place to implement this project. Therefore, let me put an end to my rapporteur's report. I think what the Minister has said here is a sufficient charge for us to have a qualified discussion. I believe that in my report I have drawn attention to other moments and points that should clearly be part of today's resolution. Therefore, please comment on this, because the aim of all members of the Economic Committee of the cross-section of the political spectrum was for this initiative to be taken in line with all the political actors in the Chamber of Deputies, in order to guarantee, for the long term, that this objective is very important and priority for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his report and I can open a general debate, which Mr František Laudát first came forward. A colleague Martin Kolovratník and other colleagues will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a little sorry that there is such a small participation of Members. The Economic Committee in the past, repeatedly over the past many years, has called on the Ministry of Transport, the Government, to actually take concrete decisive steps to prepare the construction of high-speed rail networks in the Czech Republic. Most people said no, and there was a consensus across the political spectrum, in past and past periods. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Transport did not have an adequate response. Officials sitting and sitting and sitting think we're some kind of dreamers or something. The result of this situation is that the Czech Republic is becoming Europe's black hole in terms of modern, quality, safe, ecological railway. Why did we put pressure on the saw now? Because we really want it to be the will of the entire House. And I hope our successors will continue to do so. We do not dream, we want the Czech Republic to throw away the mind that has, which is growing, the inability to build transport infrastructure. Please note that shortly after 1990, there was a document that said that sometime by 2016, the modernisation of railway corridors would be completed. Not to mention the disgraceful construction of the motorway network today. And in 2017, I feel that the construction of the first high-speed rail line should have started. It didn't happen. That we are not dreamers, the size of the Czech Republic compared to the globalised world we are really the population and the size of the urban state. And we should reach out to the fact that traffic service looks like it. Just because we're talking about high-speed rail doesn't mean it doesn't affect everyone. I have never come here with signs, but now I will show you something and at the same time as defending why in some parameters of the type: do not come to us planners, officials, government under 300 km speed, to support this, because the aim should be primarily high-quality transport service of the whole Czech Republic, establishing a completely new quality in transport service. That's the primary target. And if we stick to it, or the government, our successors, the parameters, then I will show you here without any continuity, without rebuilding the regional network, without adapting the railway corridors, what it will do in the transport accessibility of the capital city of Prague. We took that as a reference point, it's not in any pragocentrism. . [[Member shows plenary panel with color map of the Czech Republic]] And here you will see actually how within an hour, within two to three hours you can travel to the capital city of Prague using the railroad. In the event that the planned adjustment plans for the subsequent regional railways are thought out, I think the government should not be afraid to say: Dear citizens, from the worst available village of the Czech Republic within two and a half hours you will reach the capital city of Prague. Of course, this will logically reduce the travel between neighbouring metropolises of Central European space, and therefore, of course, also throughout Europe. So please it's not one of ours - I read in the media because there were reactions to the TOP 09 vision, for example, that we dream that it's a utopia. It's not a utopia, it's just evidence of where we've psychologically gotten to. The Czech Republic needs its pride back. We are, in some way, arguing about the motion for a resolution here. I would ask you, you may find it a little more detailed and so on, but it is also based on the discussion that took place at the first meeting of the Working Group, which was set up by the Minister of Transport and where, in fact, from the existing people who have been there for a long time, they are already living in such a far too bureaucratic regime. And I believe that the decision on corridors of parameters, where the railway should move, on priorities and on form, is primarily a political decision. It is only in the second row that a clear assignment is to come out as to what relevant experts, traffic experts, investors, the Ministry of Finance will be doing. [[9.40 hours]] So I was talking about transport accessibility. As far as priorities are concerned, what has been done so far from my point of view, according to this, few studies, analyses of traffic flows, and similarly, the greatest contribution to the Czech Republic will be that the first to be put into service or as a clear priority a high-speed railway between Prague and Brno will be built. In terms of the interests of neighbouring Germany, the connection from Prague towards Dresden is more prepared from the point of view of territorial planning. And if we're talking about this track, then the government needs to be clear, because the Němec are very interested in connecting Dresden to Ústí nad Labem. Their priority with high probability, I did not participate in the negotiations, is to deploy rail transport from the Elbe Valley. But there is a great interest in the new high-speed line, including the long tunnel under the Ore Mountains, to allow freight transport. I believe that the priority interest of Czech citizens is that high-speed rail services serve for passenger transport. I believe that there is no need to delay and there is a strong need to decide on the variants or subvariants of the individual branches of the high-speed network in order to be able to take action with regard to changes in territorial plans, completion, construction closures. I believe that we should support the Government's efforts to adapt legislation in the relevant matters so that it is really realistic to start the physical construction of the first high-speed railroad by 2025 at the latest. No way - and it's scandalous if so far some experts are telling us that the first dig should be in 2035. Just to remind you that by the experts of the European Union at a very prestigious conference held recently in Prague, it has been said that the European Union is counting on the development of a high-speed railroad and the completion of the entire network in the territories of the European Union to end by 2050. So here you can see the position we're in. And if this were really done, it means that we can start shutting down the sources of co-financing, which will certainly not be small for the high-speed network. I mentioned priorities. I mentioned traffic accessibility. Now the character. I have already pointed this out from the point of view of the interests of Germany, which could put us in a bit of a position that they need to build a train to the Czech Republic. Of course, you will be heard during the subsequent discussions on the combined system. I believe that we need to get fast transport, passenger transport to a high-speed network, release already overloaded today, with insufficient capacity of existing railway lines, whether corridors, regional freight lines, or dreams of getting freight from rail roads are unrealistic, ridiculous, unrealistic, because there, in the current form of modernization of corridors, there has been a collision of fast passenger transport with slow freight transport. As a result, it is dramatically reduced and there is insufficient capacity for freight lines or infrastructure. However, what I would see, and I was telling you, if we are telling you that this is a national project, a national railway project for all citizens of the Czech Republic, then there needs to be a mixed system that connects the backbone network with the regional railway. It would be ideal to at least connect some regional centres by taking the train from, for example, the capital city or from, for example, the world's, European, surrounding, major centers along the high-speed route, take off at the appropriate location and continue at a slightly reduced speed, but indeed not 80, but, for example, from 150 to 200 to corridors or other regional lines to the relevant regional centres, and also the other way around. Then we can promise citizens that there will actually be a change, a revolution in the general transport service of the entire territory of the Czech Republic. As far as the parameters are concerned, I was very emotional at that first business meeting. You know, it's not about to point out that if we say, where it goes, we want design speed, design speed to be 350 km/h, it doesn't mean that that's how those trains are going to go on those networks, because then there's still travel speed. And in order to achieve, for example, that the time between Prague and Brno and in the opposite direction will be some minutes, under one hour, in which case we will really need in some sections to drive up to 350 km/h, because then of course there are some stops at nodal points and some places where it will not be possible. So it's not a dream. And please, I warn terribly about the gross mistakes that happened in the early 1990s from my point of view, when the modernization of railway corridors was without generosity, without great ambition. And after the hundreds of billions that were invested in it today, of course, they offered a new quality, but this state action did not offer revolutionary new quality. A new capacity is noted here by my colleague Karel. [[Slipper]] That's right. So please, we're not dreaming. We are rationally-thinking people who want to prevent officials from getting into their own bubble to just build us a trabant or a jew instead of a Ferrari or a Porsche. We are at the heart of Europe. And if we want to make the Czech Republic more attractive, it is not only for industry, it is for bringing in top world scientists, but for developing tourism, for opening up today's dying regions. I will soon have a press conference with my colleague Pavera, and one of those topics is the decree issued by the Central Bohemia Region, which can continue to put to death today very problematic areas around the water tank Švihov /Želivka/. By the way, there is also this decree imposed restrictions on the construction of new railways. And one of those, I'd say, very attractive variants lead right through the territory around the Turtle. The region suffers, is dying and is in the heart of the Czech Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, this is why we need to open a combined system for two types of transport operators from the point of view of regional and international railways. That is why there is the issue of opening today's inaccessible, poorly accessible regions not only on motorway networks, but especially on ecological, fast and secure high-speed networks. I don't want to keep going, I've been talking for a long time, but I've been trying too hard to get out of the position of stories, thinking, frustration of people who think well about high-speed railroads, to get into the real situation of the thrust on the gate. [[9.50 hours]] See how shameful it is to connect the centre of Prague with Václav Havel Airport in Ruzyn and with the laying agglomeration. Today, no one, despite serious projects and steps towards realization, believes that after 27 years since the first time a PRaK was set up, the speed drive Prague - Airport Ruzyně - Kladno, it comes to the fact that the bustling railway will be transformed into a modern railroad. And I'm afraid by delaying, we're going to get into this situation with the high-speed railroad without a clear move on the gate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u7	I thank Mr František Laudát. Mr Martin Kolovratník will be given the floor, Mr Petr Kudela will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u8	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, good morning. I was afraid that after František Laudát and his footage would not be easy to get off and I will certainly try to be more brief. For me, the situation is actually a little complicated, because I am a Member of the Coalition and a colleague of the ANO movement, and I certainly would not like to make it sound like that, that I invented or proposed something against the will of the Ministry or the Ministry, that we are here with some ideas that are not communicated, so I want to start by saying that this is not the way it is and that the resolution that the rapporteur will then present, I admit it was the way it is in our boiler's custom at the last minute, but that we have communicated, prepared and I am very happy for him. Because I see this as an ambitious view, an ambitious and concrete proposal, but it is still a reasonable compromise and it is the maximum possible consensus. Perhaps even the emergence of the philosophy of this resolution can be illustrated in one example. My previous speaker, František Laudát, spoke a moment ago about the fact that when we set off freight on the high-speed lines, we're going to slow it down, so we're going to put it to waste, and we're going to thicken it. You may have noticed news in the media about the famous Gotthard Tunnel in Switzerland, where even elites like the Švýcar were wrong, and there was a mistake in planning. Because when freight trains were released into the tunnel, they discovered that, for operational reasons and physical laws, their entire track would suddenly be delayed. But, for example, here is an illustration moment of the resolution or a point where we commit the government to these lines, this system is only going to be designed for passenger transport, so we just launched it. And we leaked it for the reason that already specific technical considerations and consideration of individual variants should not really be the subject of political debate here, political declaration on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, but it should arise during the debate with experts directly at the Gesture Department at the Ministry of Transport. In a few sentences in general to support, if you're not convinced about the fast connections yet, it's really not that some bunch of enthusiasts are playing with trains or that they want to build some TGV, maglev or Japanese shincans, not at all. We, ladies and gentlemen, actually want to build a faster conventional railroad. Imagine that trains that run around Europe today may be German ICE, AVE or TGV trains that I mentioned a little while ago have the same railway dimension, the same track gauge as our Czech national ones are currently here. The difference is in the type, in the construction of vehicles, in the tracking, in the direction of the track, i.e. in the curves and especially in the security. What we always say, we don't want to build here for hundreds of billions some elitist transport thing for the richest. We want to build a transport system that will be accessible to a wide population. Just imagine that you who are Moravia MPs, brňák, will be here in Prague within an hour. Colleagues, I'm from Eastern Bohemia, from Pardubice, from Hradec Králové, if there is one track, that the rides will be 20 minutes, half an hour. In fact, the republic will be dramatically reduced. Not just to us, but to all citizens who can suddenly commute to work. And another least important one, and I say that the crucial moment is that we perceive the preparation networkically. This means that we want to connect the fast connections to the current railway network, and again on the simplest illustration example between Prague and Brno at the moment when such a line is created, so suddenly there are two conventional trains, which already exist, one leads through Havlíčkův Brod, Vysočina, one via Česká Třebová and Pardubice, which can be used by freight trains, passenger regional transport and more. That means we're gonna release the existing network. It must also be said that the investments, the finances that will go into this system will not be eaten, but will be invested, the Czech Republic will return dramatically from a macroeconomic point of view. We have made some estimates, calculations, real estimates and market knowledge, and I claim that we are able to start the construction of these lines in 2025, those first diggers on the first sections of this year can go out because, for example, in the section of Prague-Dresden, competition for feasibility studies was completed and it will start to prepare, it will start to be planned specifically. In my opinion, we are able to build 40 to 50 kilometers of such a line per year in current capacities. So by 2035 if everything goes well, we can be done. And now for the resolution. There are more points, I will not delay now, the rapporteur will, of course, present them. We had basically ambition to be specific. The material that was created at the Ministry is perfect. I want to thank the Minister for him and get a big compliment, because the Ministry, Minister, if I'm right, a year or two ago, tried to compete with this material. It wanted to compete at European level. This means reaching out to foreign design offices or professionals. And just the competition, unfortunately, I'll be honest, because of the quality of our Public Procurement Act, it wasn't a success. The unsuccessful candidates still appealed, the competition was challenged and it was not possible to compete, to prepare the conceptual material about fast connections in the Czech Republic. The Ministry decided to prepare it with its own forces and prepared it from my point of view actually at quite a record time. It's been maybe three quarters of a year since last year. And for that, I bow to the Minister and colleagues from the Strategy Department because this was a really perfect performance. So today we have the material here, we have asked in this resolution that we may still be able to devote ourselves to it on the Economic Committee, so that it is not the subject of such a broad plenary, but the narrow group of Members who are engaged in transport. My point is that the material is on a great level in terms of technology, preparation, description of the situation. But there's one thing he's missing. He lacks the design or setting up of these political and concrete processes to do. How to start planning, organized, where to allocate, what experts to address, when to allocate funds. And here's the "lack" or the handicap that's not in the material, we're just replacing our resolution, which we're going to present to you in a little while, and we're going to ask you for his support. In the last sentence, just random or illustrative. We have also put a point where we propose asking the government to address the strategic partnership by foreign experts. And maybe I can be specific, preliminary communication with a guy named Andrew McNaughton, he's the technical director of the UIC world's High Speed Two, he's the head of a high-speed forum, so he's really one of the most respected experts at world level. He has been a strategic advisor to the Australian government for two years for the construction of high-speed lines, and he is a person who would be willing to negotiate with the Czech Republic and help us prepare it. Of course, we can or may not decide for him, but this is an illustration of the fact that the individual points of our resolution are really rational, concrete, and they will help this thing and move the construction dramatically forward. We have also proposed that the resolution, the declaration, be over the parliamentary term. That means, if we agree, we commit the government once a year to 31. 12. He will present to the Chamber of Deputies a report on how she has progressed in the previous calendar year, what steps she has taken and where we have moved in this construction. If this resolution applies, you will surely suspect, you know that it will continue to apply through the term of office in the future. So for me, thank you once again to the Minister for his willingness not to take this to the detriment of the government or that the House is inventing something bitter or against the Ministry. Thank you for working with me. Great thanks to colleagues from the coalition and, above all, from the opposition. We had a joint press conference this morning, where we were standing in front of journalists without political jerseys, without party logos, and declared a moment which I do not think has yet happened in the House that really representatives of all the participating or present MPs speak as one man. And for that, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u9	Thank you, Mr Martin Kolovratník, and I will ask my colleague Kudela to wait. First, I'll read the apologies. Mr Šarapatka apologizes from today's meeting until 11.30 and Mrs Golasowská from 14.30 to the end of the day. And now two factual points. First is Mr Ivan Gabal, then Mr Antonín Seďa. You have the floor on a point of fact, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would only take this opportunity to take such a small branch and ask the Minister to persuade his political colleague, the Prague Mayor, to discuss the metropolitan plan, because otherwise those trains from 300 km speed will have to brake in Cologne to stop in Běchovice because they will not have a territorial decision and a plan for Prague. I think that, at the current pace, it could also happen that the metropolitan plan will not be negotiated and then all the strategic documents will end up at the borders of Prague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u11	I thank Mr Gabal. And now Mr Seďa has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u12	Thank you. Dear Minister, I will take advantage of the fact that you should react later. I have a specific matter that I have already mentioned on the Transport Committee. Even the motion for a resolution as it is... I support the high-speed rail, but it is only a link to the west. There's no contact to the north. Specifically, it is the line Břeclav - Ostrava, i.e. Vienna - Warsaw connection as it is. And secondly, we don't really want to have a connection to the exit here, that is. with neighbouring Slovakia and beyond. I think we need to look into the future, because even building high-speed railroads... [[A note from the diaper.]] Yes, he's showing up here at Bratislava. Bratislava, okay, but it's downstairs, it's more like Hungary. So I wanted to ask specifically about the resolution at the point where the Chamber of Deputies asks for the priority of the backbone high-speed railway connection Dresden - Prague and Prague - Brno - Přerov - Ostrava/Břeclav to be followed. I wanted to ask if Břeclav really is the connection of Břeclav - Přerov - Ostrava. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u13	Thank you, Mr Seďa. Mr Jiří Koubek, who is reporting with a point of fact, and Mr Kudela is ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u14	Hello. Vice-President, thank you. It's really just a matter of fact about the foreman honored by a colleague named Gabala. I'm the last person here to defend the mayor for ANO, Mrs. Krnáčová in Prague. But I would like to point out to you that the Metropolitan Plan has been in charge since 2014 of the three-calice, which is a member of KDU at the City Council. Please deal with this rather between your own members and your own factions at the Magistrate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u15	I thank Mr Jiří Koubek for his time. And I will ask Mr Kudela to wait, because the chairman of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura has applied with priority rights. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u16	Thank you for the floor. I must say, I am rather embarrassed by this debate. If we just tell ourselves the headline that we want to support the construction of high-speed lines, I'm sure we agree. And now I feel like we're gonna go on a microphone here and say who's more supportive. But I would welcome it if we adopted a resolution much more general, because I feel that in this debate, we are replacing the decision of the Ministry of Transport or the Government as a whole. The resolutions that are proposed, whether that was made at the Ministry of Transport, I do not know who applied to it, or the ones put forward by Mr Kolovratník, are too specific in my opinion. Too fatal for some of the sections considered because I can imagine how it will continue to work. When the House decides something, it will be used as an argument in an expert debate. I think we're starting a little bit from the end. In addition to the password of the support, the idea, the project, the idea that's good, I think we need to answer two basic questions. One. I don't know why we invented the Czech term "fast connection." I don't know when legislation says something like European, but so be it. Do we want high-speed lines only built into the European context? Or if we fail because of the unwillingness of neighbors, other ideas of neighbors, do we want to build this nationally without establishing a European railroad? That's an important question. The first one is definitely better than the second one, but it can happen because we don't have it in our hands alone that we can't do it. And the other thing that I think is even more important. We don't have a financing model. We don't. Neither the variant A, nor the variant B. And how are we supposed to make decisions? I know, it's gonna cost 300, 400, 500 billion. - and now I'm not saying which number is right. What's the number coming from? How is this going to work? Foreign experience usually says it's an investment that comes back. This is very often done by a private investor in cooperation with the state. Are we gonna get our investment back? Do we have a model? Did anybody count it? I didn't. Don't think of it as criticism. We're in some kind of shape, we're at the beginning of 2017, and I don't think that if there wasn't an election, we don't even have that point here today. And when I look at those proposed resolutions, the Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government approve a programme for the development of rapid rail links after settlement of inter-ministerial commentary procedures. That, my colleagues, my colleagues, is a blank check. We don't know how the settlement of the interdepartmental commentary will turn out. All I had to do was hear the comments of the Chamber of Commerce. And I personally don't want to enter a fight between the resorts. Because in other words, if we adopt this resolution, we say this: it will be according to what the Ministry of Transport thinks. Because it settles comments. And who has ever seen it and experienced it, so the settlement of comments can also take place in this way: not accepted, not accepted, yes, we formally accepted, we rewritten the name, not accepted, we disagree, we insist on our own. And I'm not saying it's wrong. But how am I supposed to vote if I don't know what's going to happen? What exactly is the motive of this action that we have actually enforced? It is not that the Minister of Transport has come up with a great project, and he thinks that it is good for the stability of such a large project to have a broad political consensus that will bridge the change in government or maybe a change in several governments when we talk about the real date of realization. I'm sure that's a good idea and a good move. But we have enough ground to support other than adopting a general resolution, is that what we all want? I don't think so. And in order not to criticize it, I have prepared a more economical resolution in cooperation with the experts involved, which, firstly, says that we welcome and support the activities of the government. It's not a criticism of the government. And then it actually says what we ask the Government of the Czech Republic to do without prejudging the specific solutions. We say that we want the government to prepare this more intensively, to discuss the intention of the high-speed rail development programme, to adopt budgetary measures allowing the scope of preparatory work in 2017 or 2018, I saw a comment from the Ministry of Transport, it is not so important and so on. But what is important is that I propose that either the government, preferably the government, submit to the House some proposal for a declaration to which the leaders of political parliamentary parties commit. And that shouldn't be that specific, if we include this section, we don't line up, and if we say fast connections or high-speed railroads. I shall pass the resolution on to the rapporteur. I do not want to delay now, because I think that plenary of the Chamber of Deputies is not a forum where we should debate the details which lines are better, which lines are worse, if we connect airports, we will not be in the direction of Brno, Přerov, yes, no and how. That's what I think we'd spend the whole time here until the parliamentary elections. And I will ask you, if we want to adopt a resolution to accept this austerity which is not conflicting, it is not as if it is an opposition proposal that is buying the government for something, but we are asking the government for concrete action. And that is crucial - I think there must be some political declaration and political agreement. And I appreciate the long-term activity of the Economic Committee, but that is not the resolution of the Economic Committee. And I think it is more valuable that political parliamentary parties sign this than, as it were, the majority in the Chamber of Deputies right now. And to this motion for a resolution, it points and leaves room for a detailed, expert debate on parameters, directions, speeds, stations, but, at the same time, clearly, if we accept this, it says that there is a great political consensus that this expensive project - that is an expensive project - makes sense. [[10.10 hours]] And I say for us, we're in, but conditional. We are in favour of making financial models, models of financing for construction and operation, so that feasibility studies are carried out, and on the basis of these documents we can proceed really to the implementation of such a project. That it's going to be some kind of cost at the preparatory stage, that's for sure, it won't be free. They'll have to process various analyses, backgrounds. But if we are talking about a project in hundreds of billions of crowns, it is irresponsible to make decisions based on impressions and enthusiasm. Enthusiasm is good, but we also need other technical backgrounds. And I'm going back to the financial model. Without it, we will make such big blind decisions, and in that moment we must not be mistaken. We don't have to. But there's a high probability that we're going to make the wrong decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u17	That was Mr Stanjura's speech. He raised two factual points. The first is Mr Laudát, the second is Mr Pilný. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u18	Thank you. I'm a little disappointed in this performance. Please, quick connections and high-speed lines are in the ratio that high-speed lines are a subset of fast connections. This is the whole set that will be the high-quality railway network I was talking about, that is to do a surface operation of the entire territory of the Czech Republic, and that is a combination of drills that we are talking about here today, the backbone network, even with the design design design speeds, and then there are fast connections, which are also some railways on corridors etc. So please, if someone wants to talk about something, let's make it clear on the expert level. And as to why those numbers are supposed to be 300, 350. Please, we're pushing planners, officials and politicians to make sure that there isn't somebody out there somewhere in bits, just like we've been doing so far, sticking under the fact that there's going to be a high-speed track on the existing rail network, that's another thing, so we know exactly what we're doing by putting it into that resolution. And by the way, there's been a modification. I believe that the motion for a resolution should be made here by the rapporteur to discuss what will be on the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u19	That was Mr Laudát, thank you for keeping time on the point of fact. And before I give the floor to Mr Pilný, I will ask the House for peace. Mr. Ambassador, come on. Of course, I'll give you a word when it'll be quiet enough for you to give your speech... Colleagues, colleagues, please... You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the Economic Committee, especially its members, who have worked hard to do these specific things in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport. I would like to say that it is a good thing that this resolution is concrete, and it has already been said here, because the mere agreement and consensus of the political parties that have been mentioned here will not do anything. About the objections Mr. Stanjura had here...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u21	Colleagues, gentlemen, please calm down. We're taking time to make a point of fact, and then you're forcing me to break... Okay. Ambassador, I'll take your time again. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u22	Thank you. This resolution states, for example, that we ask the government to discuss it specifically with the Economic Committee before approving any material. There are remarks about legislation, because we can't build anything without changing legislation. This means that the amendment of legislation, the construction law and other things will come to the Chamber of Deputies and will be specifically voted upon. It also says that there must be funds. We will approve the budget, which means that the Chamber of Deputies here will also comment on this. And the objection that it supports European connections. If you read which links are specifically designed there, I would just like to say that these connections are mostly on the territory of the Czech Republic and will address the transport problems of the Czech Republic. There is a connection to our most important economic partner in Bavaria. We have agreed with Bavaria to support these matters. This means that I am very pleased that this resolution is concrete. And it is quite clear that, in order to enter into force, the Chamber of Deputies will have something to say, both in terms of the whole preparation and in terms of budget and legislation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u23	I thank Mr Ivan Pilný. And now we are returning to the debate by speaking to Mr Petr Kudela, Mr Petrtýl will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u24	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult to speak after such speakers as Mr Stanjura and President Pilný etc. However, I also want to comment on the matter of high-speed lines. I believe that rail transport, passenger rail transport has improved in recent years. Improved, however, does not mean that this condition is the target and is the best. High-speed lines are, of course, a matter of the present and near future, and a person, as required by ever-faster connections, must be things, etc., so that he calls for this type of connection. The opportunity to reach the capital of any part of our country within two or two and a half hours is indeed a requirement. High-speed rail lines should and should contribute to this. The motion for a resolution tabled by Mr Kolovratník, I could have studied it, is good, perhaps too detailed for my taste. I do not know to what extent specific corridors are prepared so that the cities that should be served by high-speed lines can already be specified. Perhaps this resolution would like to add that the gearing for the built-up kits will come from Bohumín ironworks and rails from New Huta. But...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u25	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u26	But that was probably a very rude request. My colleague Mihola, President of the People's Party's Assembly Club, made a press conference on this resolution, so we will support this resolution. I am very pleased that the resolution of the Economic Committee, which has started to deal with this matter recently, has also been responded by the Prime Minister and has indeed become important at government level as well as with the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u27	I thank Mr Kudel. Another factual point by Mr Karel Fiedler. Mr Petrtýl, duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u28	I can't fail to fill my colleague Kudela with the fact that there should be rails from Třinecký železárny in that case.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u29	Thank you for a very effective speech with a point of fact, and now my colleague František Petrtýl, who is duly registered, is the last in the debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u30	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we drive to work every day and we see roads blocked, we are nervous about this. And the only option, because it is no longer possible to expand roads, is to build a railway network. In the Central Bohemia Region, 130,000 passengers commute to work every day from the Central Bohemia Region to Prague, so if we take a coefficient of 1.2, that's almost 100,000 cars. Why am I talking about this? This positive trend, which we welcome, that people return to the means of public transport, has also a negative side of things, and that is that the top of the rails no longer has sufficient capacity, those people will no longer fit into our trains. And it is the construction of high-speed lines, because it is assumed that these lines will lead by a different route than the current railway superstructures, so it could actually release the route and tracks so that people from suburban areas of Prague can get to Prague comfortably. So it actually has this impact, which I think should be taken into account. And some of my previous speakers have said, which is very important, the biggest problem with line construction is legislation, so I think that the Linen Construction Act will be the key so that we develop the railway network as quickly and efficiently as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u31	I thank Mr Petrtýl. Anyone else for the debate? If no one, I am ending the general debate. Shall we approach the debate in detail and ask whether the motion for a resolution is different from the rapporteur? Yes, first, the rapporteur, and I'll give the floor to the next reporter. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I do not have a simple role to play today as rapporteur on this discussion point, and that is that during the debate, Mr Stanjura drew attention to the fact that he is presenting his own form of resolution, which means that we have, as if, built up an opposition resolution against one that has been prepared for some communication and cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and members of the Economic Committee. So I would like to introduce you first to the resolution prepared by the Economic Committee, or by the members of the Economic Committee, after consulting the Ministry of Transport, and then I would like to read or imagine the resolution mentioned here in my speech by Mr Stanjura. So to the original resolution that was proposed. The preamble reads: (a) promoting entrepreneurship, labour mobility and macroeconomic development of the Czech Republic; (b) long travelling times of trains between the main economic centres of the Czech Republic; (c) the capacity of railway lines, including already upgraded passenger and freight corridors, in particular in suburban agglomerations The Chamber of Deputies perceives the fundamental importance of high-speed rail for the further economic development of the Czech Republic and recognizes the need for its involvement in the emerging European network of high-speed lines in accordance with the European regulations from trans-European transport networks TEN-T. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic for effective cooperation in this area for the state of key transport infrastructure, especially between departments. Based on this cooperation, the Chamber of Deputies requires the implementation of specific processes leading to the actual implementation of the system of fast connections in the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to discuss the content of the material with the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies before approving the programme for the development of rapid connections by the Czech Government. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to include a proposal for a system of fast connections as a link to the conventional rail network and thus form the backbone of public transport in the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to resolve the issue of organizational security of the preparation and implementation of the system of rapid connections in the Czech Republic without delay, within the framework of the Railway Infrastructure Administration organization. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to begin preparing changes to related legislation. [[Construction Act, Act on Acceleration of Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure, Act on Railways and New Act on Line Transport Constructions]] The Chamber of Deputies asks that the Government of the Czech Republic allocate sufficient funds for the process of preparing and implementing the system of rapid connections in the Czech Republic. In order to meet the objective of building a fast rail link as soon as possible, the Chamber of Deputies further calls for the following steps to be implemented: The Chamber of Deputies requests that the parameter of the design speed of 300 to 350 kilometres per hour be monitored for the new high-speed network in the Czech Republic as far as possible, provided that this is justified in terms of geographical conditions and, in particular, in terms of investment and operating costs. The Chamber of Deputies asks that the priority of the high-speed railway connection Dresden-Prague and Prague-Brno-Přerov-Ostrava/Břeclav be monitored for the new high-speed network in the Czech Republic, and then, if justified, the construction of the second main capacity axis of Bratislava-Prague-Plzeň-Munichov. The Chamber of Deputies asks that the Government of the Czech Republic include in the update of the Territorial Development Policy the task of ensuring the protection of the territory for all lines defined in the material of the Ministry of Transport The Programme for the Development of Fast Rail Connections. The Chamber of Deputies requests that the Government of the Czech Republic confirm every resulting variant of the management of fast connections that emerges from the proposal of the Ministry of Transport based on the results of the feasibility study by the Government's resolution, including its parameters. The Chamber of Deputies requests that the Government of the Czech Republic immediately involve foreign experts with practical experience in the construction of high-speed lines from UIC or CER on the basis of strategic advisor to the Ministry of Transport and membership in the working group of the Ministry of Transport and accordingly increase the item to other personal expenses related to the remuneration of these experts in the chapter of the Ministry of Transport. And for the last one. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to regularly submit an information report to the Chamber of Deputies on the progress of the preparation of rapid connections in the Czech Republic once a year on 31 December. This is the original proposal of the Members of the Economic Committee. Now, let me just mention here the proposal that was submitted to me by Mr Stanjura as an alternative to the final vote on this point where this resolution reads: The Chamber of Deputies perceives the importance of high-speed rail for further development of the Czech Republic and recognizes the need for its involvement in the emerging European high-speed network in accordance with the European regulation on trans-European transport networks TEN-T. The Chamber of Deputies therefore welcomes and supports the activities of the Government of the Czech Republic in the field of the construction of high-speed lines in the Czech Republic. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Czech Government to: - intensifying the preparation of construction and operation of high-speed railway in the Czech Republic to increase international obligations arising from Regulation No. 1315/2013, on the trans-European transport network; [[TEN-T]] - discussing the conclusion of the High Speed Railway Development Programme in the Czech Republic and adopting measures to ensure the preparatory work of its future implementation; - the adoption of budgetary measures enabling the scope of preparatory work to be extended in 2018; - submission of a draft declaration by the Chamber of Deputies on the Programme for the Development of High Speed Railways in the Czech Republic during the second quarter of 2017 expressing the commitment of the signatories to the Declaration to support the implementation of the Programme in the future, draft legislative amendments that will allow the preparation of strategic transport structures to be reduced to the usual European level, and budgetary intentions and measures enabling the financing of the Programme. As much as I have received as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u33	Thank you, rapporteur, for the proposals tabled. Mr Novotný is reporting for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u34	So I just wanted to make sure that the procedure and the Rules of Procedure were met, because the rapporteur read the resolution at this point and did not say whether he was applying or not. [[With laughter.]] That's how I apply to him for the absence of my colleague Stanjura at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u35	Okay. Mr Transport Minister, with the final word, or with the motion for a resolution, Mr Minister? Resolution, good. Now, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Just one brief comment on President Stanjura's resolution. With his knowledge, I would suggest that there, in the third indent, the adoption of budgetary measures to expand the scope of preparatory work in 2017, so I would correct it to 2018, because 2017 is already covered by the budget. So, Mr Stanjura has agreed to this, and I would like to add this to his resolution when he is voted on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u37	Thank you. That's... Anyone else in the detailed debate? If no one, I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. We can therefore proceed to the vote. As the rapporteur said, the proposed resolutions, alternative - that is, we are voting on the resolution that has been tabled. Please, rapporteur, you will guide us through the resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, let me get back to what I said in a detailed debate. This is a question of the fact that we have two possible resolutions from today's meeting. So, as is customary under the Rules of Procedure, we should first vote on the counter-proposal that has actually been made here today, not from the mouth of Mr Stanjura, but from the mouth of Mr Novotný. So, Mr Vice-President, I don't know if I should read the resolution again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u39	No, there's no need. I think he's gonna...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u40	Co-workers didn't get it on the bench. I don't want to hold things up and complicate things. This resolution, which we should now vote on, is a resolution that has been proposed and has been signed up by Mr Novotný. It's shorter, which is more general. And if you don't feel the need to repeat it in detail, I would have it voted on as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u41	Okay, okay. The proposers do not object to voting as a whole. Like this. It was designed as an alternative. That is, if the resolution fails to pass the alternative, which was lectured here by colleague Stanjura, respectively. Mr Novotný, then we are voting on the motion for a resolution of the Economic Committee. Yes. If the resolution passes in general form, then it is not possible to vote on the resolution of the Economic Committee. That's how it's done. There. We are voting on the resolution that Mr Novotný has signed up to and presented here by the rapporteur. I've started voting number... Sorry. Check out. Voting number 198 is misguided. I'll check you all out and ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards... [[He's waiting for a while.]] We would rather do so, although this is not the case with this resolution, but per analogy, colleagues, I will ask for the Minister's views on the alternative and rapporteur. Minister, your position on an alternative motion for a resolution. [[Neutral.]] The rapporteur? [[Positive.]] I've started voting number 199 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 199, of the 110 present, for 32, against 1. The motion was not accepted. We therefore have a proposal from the Economic Committee. We'll decide in the vote number 200. I have begun the vote and ask who is in favour of the resolution of the Economic Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 200, from the present 115, for 105, against no one. The resolution has been approved. Thank you to the Minister of Transport, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm ending point 284 and handing over the meeting's proceedings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-02-ps2013-055-07-001-284.u42	Good morning, dear colleagues. We'll continue with the next point, that's it.
