ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u1	45. Request for consent Chamber of Deputies for criminal prosecution of Mr Andrej Babiš and Member Jaroslav Faltýnek On Tuesday, 5 September, you were handed over to this item on the bench by the resolution of the mandate and immunity committee no. 214 and 215 of 30 August this year. I am now asking the President of the mandate and immunity committee, Mrs Miroslava Němcová, to report to us on the discussion of the request of the Police of the Czech Republic, the Regional Directorate of the Police of the capital city of Prague, to give consent to the criminal prosecution of Members. Madam President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u2	Good morning. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members of the Government, honourable Members, on 10 August this year, the President of the Chamber of Deputies received a request from the Regional Directorate of the Prague City Police, the Criminal Police and Investigation Service, the Department of Economic Crime, the Third Division for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies for the prosecution of Mr Andrej Babiš and a Member of Jaroslav Faltýnek. On the same day, the police authority's request was forwarded to the mandate and immune committee to discuss and report to the Chamber of Deputies. [[There's no peace in the room.]] In addition to the members of the mandate and immunity committee, following the opinion of the supervising prosecutor, both Members, Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek, met the request in the presence of their legal representatives. The request by the Police Authority for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute both Members shall contain, in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the definition of the acts which are involved and their legal qualifications. The criminal file kept on both Members was not provided to the mandate and immunity committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, I ask for peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u4	However, the police authority allowed the members of the committee to consult the criminal file to a limited extent at the premises of the Regional Directorate of the Prague City Police. At its 53rd meeting, which took place on 18 August of this year, the mandate and immune committee initiated the discussion of the request of the police authority. He designated Mr Jiří Dolejš and Mr Stanislav Huml as rapporteur. The Committee suspended its deliberations in order to request the supporting documents necessary for the assessment of the case. Both Members and their lawyers were invited to attend the Committee's next meeting, as well as a representative of the police and a supervising prosecutor. In order to participate, i.e. to participate in the representatives of the police and the supervising prosecutor, the approval of their superiors was requested. At the 54th meeting of the mandate and immunity committee last week on 30 August, Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek made a personal statement on the matter. The word was given to both their attorneys. The High Commissioner of the Regional Directorate of the Police of the capital city of Prague and the supervising prosecutor of the Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Prague also commented on the justification of the police authority's request for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute both Members, and in the second part of our meeting they answered the questions which were addressed to them by the members of the committee. As a basis for the committee's deliberations, an exit from the surveillance investigation carried out on the basis of an external complaint was requested from the supreme prosecutor in Prague. After examining the information submitted, the mandate and the immunity committee voted separately on each of the two Members. The order of the mandate and immunity Committee Nos 214 and 215, i.e. these two resolutions of 30 August of this year, was unanimously adopted by all 14 members present. For your information, the mandate and immune committee have 15 members, 14 of them present. This resolution, which I am talking about, was handed out to you on the bench yesterday. With the opinion of the mandate and immunity committee on the request of the police authority for approval of the Chamber of Deputies for criminal prosecution of both Members, you will be informed by the Committee rapporteurs, Mr Jiří Dolejš, and Mr Stanislav Huml. So much for my introduction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u5	Thank you. I now ask the rapporteur of the committee of Mr Jiří Dolejš, or Mr Stanislav Huml.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u6	Thank you for your say in this not entirely politically simple case, but I must say that the mandate and immune committee has done so in a standard way. As the President of the Committee has already announced, we have met for this purpose twice in August. Above all, I must remind you that we have also dealt with the way in which these matters are to be handled, although logically, at the very end of the parliamentary term, it is complicated to break rules or precedents. But at the very least, we have solved the problem of how much consent must be given or appreciated so that Members can get to know the whole text of the application, because this is not explicitly stated and in the past it has been done in various ways, particularly in relation to what has been stated in the application. There were applications that were very trivial and simple, and they were applications that, of course, drew from the file material and provided various details, and therefore, in the past, the mandate and immune committee approached these things in various ways. It will undoubtedly be good for the future to have more order in this matter, but that is a message to our colleagues, who will be sitting here in the bench at the end of this year. Since we were in this uncomfortable situation, we turned to the supervising prosecutor to tell us in this, to agree with you, and I must say that the two Members of Parliament have come to know the full text of the police request. [[9.10 hours]] It was also mentioned that representatives of law enforcement authorities were invited at the meeting of the mandate and immune committee, so that we were fully equipped with all the information. Even the media debate was directed in a certain way, so it is probably no surprise that we were interested in what was primarily the course of supervision of the preparatory phase of the criminal proceedings and of the police work itself, because various doubts and speculation were expressed in the media, even though today we have the highest prosecutor's statement, so, of course, in that situation, we needed to know more. [[Cell phone ringing.]] I'm sorry, I have to squeeze out the machine that's haunting me here. My bad, I'm sorry. As far as this is concerned, of course, we have been given the information that we explicitly requested. We have been informed that time limits have been extended in the preparatory procedure and, among other things, greater synergies have been requested from the stakeholders concerned. As far as external supervision is concerned, this was also carried out on the basis of the complaint and it was stated here that the alleged error had not been confirmed. There was also direct supervision by a particular prosecutor of the police's work, which consulted him on the progress of the preparatory procedure, with a positive result regarding the transition to the prosecution phase. Of course, this was also important for our decision-making. Of course, there may be an interest in leadership, proof of what is in the file and is not, it remains, of course, secret, but must be stated, and it has also been said in the discussion on the mandate and immunity committee, and it has its political significance in relation to the public, that the Chamber of Deputies cannot in any way be a tribunal. We here, sitting here, are not as prosecutors, but as defense attorneys. We basically, some of the members of the immune committee, had the opportunity to look into the file material. Getting acquainted with the file does not mean that we discussed the quality of the evidence in the role of those plaintiffs or advocates. Basically, we were just checking out the work the police did. And here it must be said that the file corresponds to the content of the application that does not pass away the sensitive question of the nature of the company's control, the question of participation in the crime mentioned. I believe as a person who might have become aware of the fact that the evidence is purely materially relevant, has relevant information from bank statements, complex accounts, expert opinions, etc. Members can then get to know the case by themselves when they eventually proceed to the next phase of the criminal proceedings, i.e. if they are somehow removed, because this is essential for them to lead their possible defences. There was also a lot of discussion about the timing of this whole case. It was evaluated differently, it was turned into different angles because of so-called. political purposefulness, but it must be said here that the timeline is simply clearly described. And subjectively, everyone can judge their own, but it's quite simple. Just in 2007, appropriate challenges were being prepared at the Central Bohemian ROP, the Board of Operational Programmes. It followed, and this is also quite clear, the removal of the relevant company, the farm, the holding and then the drawing of the subsidy on the basis of the application etc. In 2013, the company returned to the holding, in a relatively short period of time, as they say within a year and a day, some criminal charges were filed to which the police had to respond. And she responded by launching her first criminal proceedings at the beginning of January. So the timeline, of course, is relevant. Whether an earlier or later term would be more advantageous to someone or less advantageous, it is of course a speculative thing, but I think that the authorities, when they have incentives, simply have to act. And in which part the driving goes to one or the other phase, the competent authorities decide that, and now, of course, it's up to us, in terms of the immune regime. As far as I'm concerned, maybe someone would remember that we've already had this case here at this House meeting. Here I would like to underline that the extraordinary meeting last March was based on information about the investigations carried out by the European institutions, i.e. OLAF. The meeting was interrupted until the outcome of their activities was published, but this is a separate process. Of course, the Czech police have information synergies with Olaf, but it is simply a separate procedure that should have no effect on the matter of the police and the immune regime. In conclusion, I'm only going to underline one thing. We should perhaps be very clear in the discussion about the purpose of political immunity. It's not intended to avoid criminal proceedings. It aims to prevent the House from being blocked, so that Members are prevented from exercising their mandate, so as to be bullied for their political activities. If this is not in connection with their mandate, if this does not prevent the continuation of the House, and let's be honest, a few weeks before the elections, the House can hardly be blocked in any more fundamental way in these cases, then the question is, what exactly should the immune management serve? It is simply we Members, although we are equipped with some immunity, that we are not superhumans who should avoid prosecution. Of course, when law can be passed, it is also a chance of purification, a relevant cleansing, a cleansing that has a high degree of credibility in the rule of law. So the public should not feel that when someone's influence rises, impunity also increases. That's all on my side at the moment. Of course, in a detailed debate, we will recall an explicit resolution which will be voted separately in both cases, both gentlemen, but in both cases it is identical. This means a mandate and an immune committee has agreed that it is for extradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u7	Thank you and please the second rapporteur, Mr Stanislav Huml.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u8	Beautiful day. There's almost nothing left to say after my colleague Dolejš. I particularly agree with the conclusion that was about immunity and its incompetence, because the immunity itself gets the poor Members who are exposed to it in an unconstitutional position, because when they are exposed to them by journalists, they don't know what they're accused of, some of them. And if immunity weren't - some people know that, but if immunity wasn't, then basically the principle of presumption of innocence would really work, the charges would be quietly brought, and then in the finals we could talk about it in public, when it's decided in court, which is the right thing to do, because that's the way it should be. In my intelligence work, I focused mainly on chronology, so as to be clear whether or not the timing had taken place. Thus the police received the initiative in December 2015 until the very end of the year. The actions started in January 2016 and the file has about 3,500 pages to date. This speaks of the extent of the work that has been done in that time. There are interviews, bank documents, that's exactly what Jiří was talking about, from the cadastral listings, and many other institutions had to be addressed to do so so that the file had some relevant reporting value. If there were delays, so that it was caused by the activities of those persons being examined, this is evidenced by the surveillance report from the Attorney General's Attorney General, which shows that when the accounts of the successor of Capi's nest were to be issued, a. s., which is IMOBA, there were obstructions as well as when police required evidence of the transfer of shares. [[9.20 hours]] Then we had an invited SA on the committee, and I must say that his performance was very convincing in that he too is convinced - as is the police and the prosecutor's opinion was that it was already ripe for them to ask for extradition. I, like Jiří Dolejš, will confirm that we're not a trial, or that's my idea. We are in a phase where the investigation has been completed, which is one part of the criminal proceedings, which means a greater degree of certainty that a criminal offence could have been committed. I express myself very carefully on purpose so that it is also legally clean. And so if the police and the prosecutors reach this stage, then they have nothing left to say but to make the accusations, where they then enter far wider rights for the accused. They have the opportunity to really defend themselves, to marry lawyers, to look into files, to get to know the evidence. So he's more of a step that leads them to be in the picture. So that's it for me. I was more brief because Jiří really exhausted all his options. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u9	Thank you and we will proceed to the general debate. Before I announce that Mrs Kovářová has a card 82, Mrs Lorencová 80, Mrs Maxová 84 and the Prime Minister has 83. So I'm opening up a general debate and I have three applications so far. Mr Babiš's first application, then Mr Faltýnek's application, and then Vice-President Gazdík after them. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u10	So good day to all, Mr President, honourable Members. I listened carefully to the appearance of predecessors, and when they say that they are not actually entitled to express any judgments, however, they have expressed them somehow. Today is just 45 days till the election, and we're meeting here again because of Chapi's čapí! Because of a pseudo problem that's ten years old. It seems that the stork's nest is perhaps the most important event in the history of this House or our country. And all I'm asking is, do you really think this is a criminal case of the Chapi Nest? That this is not another special-purpose process to influence the forthcoming parliamentary elections? That the whole case of Chapi's čapí is just Kubice's message two? Which appeared just before the election, which then damaged social democracy and led to Mr Paroubek's fall. You really think so? You all know -- and as the police investigator told me in interrogation -- that if I wasn't in politics, no one would investigate the Chapi Nest case. And you might never even hear of that farm. So of course what I'm going to say here is definitely throwing pea on the wall. But I'm sure many of you have already condemned me on the basis of mere personal antipathy and issued me for prosecution without hearing any factual arguments. I would like to begin by pointing out that the Chamber of Deputies has agreed to wait for Olaf's statement in its decision-making process. Where's the damage? Who's the damage? Or the police department is actually already telling Olaf he's got damage. But Olaf doesn't say that. Even the ROP doesn't say that! And the publicly available information shows that OLAF in the case of the Cape Nest is not to decide until the end of this year. My question is, didn't the policeman instigate his request to attack me so that I wouldn't have time for a campaign? To be overwhelmed by the practical consequences of my person and family's criminal investigation? I am well aware that some of the Members present here will be happy to press the voice button to release me for prosecution, and they think they're going to get rid of me. But of course I respect that. But before you do, I'd like to repeat some of the facts. I expected that the investigation into the case of the Chapi Nest initiated on the basis of an anonymous criminal report - as otherwise - to reach the moment of my prosecution - from the moment I found out that the criminal proceedings had been assigned to the controversial investigator Nevtípil, who was involved in the special criminalisation of the entrepreneur Sitty and others. It was supposed to be some kind of revenge at the time for Mr Sitta's reference to criminal activity concerning the issue of tickets to the Prague transport company, which was supplied by his company, Neograph. Mr. Sitta was stolen from his company. This was with the assistance of law enforcement authorities, where the supervision was carried out by the prosecutor Dr. Máchová and by the police authority was Mr. Nevtípil. Yes, Mr. Didn't Nevtípil he was investigating the čapí's nest. Mrs. Máchová is criminally prosecuted in the so-called Beretta case. These are not my assumptions, but the statement of the High Court in Prague, which decided on the matter. I only recall these things because the local jurisdiction of the authorities active in criminal proceedings in the case of the Capi Nest is not quite clear. These authorities are supposed to act on the outside in such a way that there are no doubts as to their bias. If the local jurisdiction to criminal proceedings regarding the case of the Chapi Nest was not quite clear, then the law enforcement authorities should have done everything possible to avoid doubting impartiality. And I'm asking, did this case really happen to end up with a police Nevtípil? I highly doubt it. My conclusions on the purpose of the entire case were confirmed when I read the application for my extradition for prosecution. It is interesting, by the way, that the request itself has been published in the media this week in full. The media had a copy of it from the beginning and so-called testing me to see if I knew it. But I myself had to wait 20 days to at least read it. And the mandate and immunity committee refused to hand over a copy to me and my lawyer so I could study it in peace. Today, the request is now available on the Internet, which is why I can publicly comment on it. Okay, first of all. The police body in it does not mention the evidence I know has been submitted to it. The request refers to so-called fictional contracts. A fictional contract is one that doesn't really exist. But the police received their originals, signed stock transfer protocols, and bank documents about paying the stock price by bank transfer. All this vital evidence the police have withheld from the Chamber of Deputies. Two. The police are coming up with the construction that the stock owner was actually me. Absurd. And that the Capi Nest farm was actually my private cottage. Well, that's a total lie, plus a bizarre fantasy. Only a complete fool could want his own identity - as the police claim - to conceal the identity of a son with the same name, for example, and only a man of poor sense might think that I built a cottage with a conference hall for 200 people, with a restaurant for 100 people and accommodation capacity for 80 people. As the media has already noticed, the application is unprofessionally processed. There's a line of typos. And as scandalous, absolutely scandalous, I consider my wife, Monika, to be accused, which is implied by a shortcut. by her name! So I'm asking, how does the investigator run the case? [[9.30 hours]] My wife didn't testify to the police in a year and a half. Chapi's čapí stock held only a few weeks and then sold it to her brother. What's illegal about that? Family members can't sell their shares? And I'm asking, how is it possible that the investigator already has her charged when he hasn't even heard her out? Absolutely scandalous! Absurd! Manipulated! So Mr. Investigator is clear ahead. He's probably making a request, he's already got the charges ready, and he's probably got it all wrong. I'm just asking what's illegal when shareholders sell shares in a stock company. I really don't understand. And I wonder what they would hide by transferring the shares to my wife's brother. What would she be hiding? My family couldn't do business and own stock on the owner? At the time it was an absolutely common type of joint stock company, and such companies were allocated CZK 3.6 billion from subsidies for 130 projects. So everything was legal, and Farma Capi Nest was no special exception. The family didn't want it to be known that she owned the company. And what's happening today, that repulsive media hunt on my family, my wife, and children, at a distance, she's telling them the truth. The provider of the ROP subsidy Central Bohemia knew that the contribution was requested by the company with shares on the owner. It was completely legal and at that time the usual and the provider did not require more details of the ownership structure. I'm asking: What was the classified information? Where's the scam? To who? Is there a shame? What's the case? If I wanted to do a grant scam, there was nothing easier than setting up an offshore firm in Cyprus, for example, and no one would ever find the owner there. No one can believe that I would invent such a complex procedure as described by the police to hide myself behind my family and my loved ones. Absurd! Even if I'm past the absurd police structure around my family, I have to ask, of course, why didn't the police wait, as usual, to end the investigation with Olaf. By the way, launched again on the basis of an anonymous criminal report. OLAF hasn't made any decisions to this day, but the police have made their point. I also fundamentally reject the officials' claim that the company was holding something up. She wasn't stalling at all. And if the police department has asked for accounting, the accounting of the entire group in a week is de facto impossible. It's not true that our party was holding something up. I'm just gonna repeat. I'm asking, what about all the checks that were on the Farm of Capi Nest in the past about the grant project? The audit was carried out under Governor Bendl, Rath, a special audit by Minister of Finance Kalousek in 2013. They didn't find any more serious mistakes. ROP Central Bohemia, when criticized what was built of subsidies, boasted on its website in 2010 that the Stork Nest Farm is one of the most successful projects. ROPu asked what of the subsidies from Europe was actually built in Central Bohemia. The only project quoted was Farm Tea Nest. I just want to say that there was no corruption in this case. Nobody spilled $50 million somewhere in Panama. Nobody leaked anything. None of them had any profit, no profit. The family didn't profit from it. There was no corruption. The money was invested and no one embezzled any money. Where there was a barbarian a long time ago, there is now an area where almost a billion crowns are already invested. The farm works normally, gives 68 people work. She carried 58 million crowns into the Czech budgets and, mostly, almost 40,000 visitors visit it every year, including a lot of children. To this day, the Stork Nest Farm is fulfilling the purpose for which it was granted. It serves the public, people and improves tourism services in the region. And most importantly, folks, the $50 million can be found right on the farm. Stolen billions from the ROP Northwest and others nowhere to be found, are not tangible. I'd really like to make sure it's some kind of family nest or my cabin or something. The farm is open to all and its services can be used by everyone. In particular, as a result of the economic crisis, the company did not last economically. Repeating lies that it was done to be returned, a hundred times repeated lies in the media. I fundamentally refuse! Yes, the farm had major economic problems. We had to decide whether to let my family's project go bankrupt or to bail him out financially. And it wasn't an easy decision to make. I've seen what not only my family at Farm Tea Nest has done for work, and I felt sorry for the family project to let it go down so it would end in bankruptcy. Plus, I was already in politics, and I didn't want my family to follow the story of an insolvent company. I think it's quite understandable. Mr President, colleagues, I have just told you basically the second time what was going on in the case of the Stork Nest Farm. You're still being told that someone embezzled a $50 million grant. It's not true. Nobody stole anything, the business plan works, the farm stands, there's almost a billion invested. I'm asking, how was the subsidy abused? I don't see any criminal charges. I see a whole other thing. I see elections. There's an election in 45 days. I hear the expression of all the politicians: Babiš will be charged, already my Mr. Didn't Nevtípil it was written when he wrote it in my lady's name. And Babiš can't be in government. That's what this is all about. About the election, nothing else! Babiš won't be in the government. Maybe he'll be in the government of the ANO movement without Babiš, maybe the movement will split up. That's the main reason. The election. Those crucial choices for the fate of our country. I think it's about whether, after the election, the incredible corruption hydra that has strangled and destroyed our country for more than a quarter of a century will survive. Corruption hydra, which is a caste of some traditional politicians with their godfathers, associates and friends of lobbyists and PR agencies, who only care about keeping their money flowing dry. I'm talking about a group of connected, corrupt money and the power of drunk people who took our country and its citizens hostage. So that's what this is about. Not the stork's nest. These people have been lying to the public for years. For years they were able to play on the so-called left and right. For years, they managed to drain billions of state-owned companies for themselves and their friends. If I had to name every case since the revolution, robbing citizens' property and tunnels, we'd be here all day. But I would just like to say one example for all of them. And that concerns our current prime minister. [[From the left side of the hall is OKD.]] Yes, it's OKD, definitely. That's cheating! The stork's nest isn't a scam, because you can feel the 50 million, but the 110 billion that Bakala pulled out of OKD, you can't feel it. He's devastated the entire region. [[9.40 hours]] The miners lost 43,000 flats, for which they are now paying outrageous rent, and went after the damage to the entire Moravian-Silesian region. The Prime Minister was in court right now, he's there as a witness, so I'd like to challenge him, because every government meeting has audio recordings, the official ones, not the unofficial ones, they're only made on Babiš. Then let the recordings from the government meeting be released, when the sale of OKD was approved, let our fellow citizens in North Moravia see for themselves how the government decided on them. And I could tell a long story about the cases behind the Prime Minister. We can talk about the sale of Škoda Plzeň for CZK 350 million, and then the Prime Minister sent over 11.5 billion for environmental burdens. According to the media, the company's value today is 90 billion, and they're still the same people who profited from these things. And those are the scams, not the stork's nest. I find that absolutely absurd! I don't want to talk about what's happened in our country for the last 25 years. It is clear that in the forthcoming elections our movement stands against this system. I don't think our citizens want these processes, the constant defamation of my person, the organization of various recordings, the various intelligence games. I just want to say that I told čapí's nest everything. I will no longer speak publicly about this. I can't influence law enforcement agencies. So, of course, I repeat again, it's really about the election. I find it really absurd that in countries where thousands of billions have gone through and stolen thousands of billions, we are talking about 50 million funds that are traceable. So, of course, it's up to you. It's up to you how you go about it. But the point is, it's clear that I'm going to be released. I don't have a problem with that. But my fate in politics, because this case is clearly meant to eliminate me in politics, will be decided by the people in the elections. They'll have the last word. And I will fight. And my political opponents, if you don't know how to fight objectively anymore and use these underhands, all I can promise you is that you won't shut me up, intimidate me, and stop me. And you won't get rid of me! So make sure you hand me over, and I'm asking you to get rid of the immunity idol so the truth comes out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u11	Thank you, the next envoy is Mr Faltýnek and President Kalousek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u12	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues. I will not be as long as our President, I will be much more brief, but before I begin my speech which I prepared last night, I would have one request, especially on Czech Television, to keep it objectively informed as possible in my reports and information. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] Very good, thank you, Mr. Mayor. I have one personal experience from last week, on the day that the mandate and immune committee was meeting, and I went there to defend myself or to have a debate, so information ran on Czech television at least three or five times all day, I do not know exactly that Jaroslav Faltýnek was a member of the organs of the Čapi Nest farm. I've said this several times, please, those editors, to look into the business register, I've never really sat in this company's organs. But that's not the point. I only ask this form to inform our public Czech television at least once in a while objectively. Now, about that particular thing. In fact, I had the first chance to get acquainted with the content of the police request last week on Tuesday, when I was there with my attorney, and there I actually read the story for the first time, although it was offered to me by Czech TV reporters 14 days ago, so I read there a story that I should actually be one of the main actors. But this story didn't happen to me personally, but I found some pieces of my real experiences and experiences back then. And in my opinion, it's a compilation of events that happened ten years ago, but they were going a little differently. I didn't remember a lot of those things, of course, after ten years, but when I read the application, I gradually remembered everything. So, ladies and gentlemen, after studying the police request and after consulting my colleagues, I have concluded that both President Andrej Babiš and I and with us and the whole ANO movement are actually facing an unprecedented attempt at an undemocratic effect on parliamentary elections with the help of police authorities. Now I'll tell you what makes me think that. One. The request for extradition in a case more than ten years ago was delivered to the House just seven weeks before the upcoming elections, plus it was delivered on the very last day when the House could still launch the extradition process. Does that seem like a coincidence to you? Especially in a situation where there are significant doubts as to whether there are real reasons for submitting an application at this time? Two. And I'm sorry that I may be repeating myself in what Chairman Babiš said. However, second, the investigation was commissioned by a police officer who expressed reasonable doubts about his influentialness, professionalism and impartiality by the Supreme Court in Prague. This police officer has been associated in the past with unfair practices against which we, as the YES movement, have fought and strongly defined ourselves throughout our political activity. Is that a coincidence, too? Three. The whole request for our release is full of factual errors, inaccuracies, unsubstantiated fables, and - I apologize for the expression - of complete nonsense. I'm talking about a request that preceded a year and a half of police investigations. As an example for everyone, the police department blames us for selling the shares of a private company without a public tender. This nonsense suggests the incompetence of a police officer who confuses the obligations of a public and private company. Anyone who's ever owned a pub on a square knows well that he doesn't have to hold a tender when selling his own property. The police commissioner, who is signed under the request, didn't even take the job of verifying the facts contained in the request in publicly available sources. Is that a coincidence, too? And I, when I was interrogated a year ago or given an explanation to the police, the main question that was repeated by the Commissioner several times was why we did not sell the shares in a public tender. And I tried to explain to him in vain several times that he got it wrong, that it was a private company. But we sold the shares, but I'll get to that at the price of an expert opinion. [[9.50 hours]] In his request, Commissioner Nevtípil also writes that the new owners did not take over and pay for the shares of ZZN AGRO. Which is another lie. The new owners took over the shares, paid for them, and, of course, the police commissioner has evidence which, of course, he has withheld from the mandate and immune committee, and he does not even mention them in the application. The transfer protocol on the physical transfer of shares and bank statements on the payment of the purchase price were transmitted by the police. In this context, I remember the question of my colleague Roman Sklenák, who is now absent, on the mandate committee, who asked me if I was physically present at the share transfer. He wasn't. For me, it ended with the decision of the board and the signature of the purchase agreement. The whole application is, and it's a good thing it's a public document today, pierced expressions like fictional, purposeful, tutorial and so on. However, there is no evidence of anything fictitious, purposeful or tutorialable in the application or in the file material. It is not so clear what the fiction of the transaction should consist of, let alone what evidence the police authority considers it to be. And that's a coincidence, too? The entire request for our release was sewn at the last minute by a hot needle with the awareness of the approaching elections and the approaching end of this House's mandate. Otherwise, I cannot explain that Commissioner Nevtípil is asking for my extradition for agreeing on 17 November 2007 to transfer shares that did not even exist on this day. The Commissioner would have found that at that time ZZN AGRO was still a limited liability company, which, as the rural pub operator knows, does not have any shares and cannot have any shares. Is that another coincidence? According to the information provided by the mandate and immune committee, an important evidence to move the police investigation to the next stage is some kind of expert opinion. However, he did not introduce the police authorities to members of the mandate and immune committee who had the opportunity to consult the file. Is that another coincidence? To date, the competent control authority of the European Union has not assessed whether or not there has been an error in the case of the Stork Nest. However, the Commissioner already knows that there has been an error and even that this error is a deliberate crime. That's another coincidence. Eight o'clock. I also had doubts about the course of the mandate and immunity committee, where I was there for the first time and could participate in the meeting. The text of the motion for a resolution was already prepared before its own discussion, physically lying on the table before the members of the committee. In my opinion, the discussion and discussion of the police request itself were only formal even though I tried to prove that the police deliberately conceal the evidence from the Chamber of Deputies. The evidence that's tearing down the tale about the Chap's nest. However, nothing has changed about the text of the resolution we have prepared on our table. Not a word. And, you know, my colleague Huml's comment that, in my case, the whole thing seems to be bent, suggests that we're far from alone, who seems to think the whole thing isn't a complete coincidence. I apologize to my colleague Huml, but that's just the way it sounded. I was very amused about the committee, and at that moment, I felt like I wasn't all alone in it. After this listing, colleagues, allow me to recapitulate briefly once again what I was supposed to do, according to Nevtípil Do not think I should have committed. As stated in his request to the House, I, along with my colleagues from the Board of Directors of ZZN Pelhřimov, a. s., had to sell an unnecessary subsidiary without a tender to the children of Mr Babiš and his wife. With this step, we should have covered up Mr. Babiš's true identity. Doesn't that seem absurd to you? At least the lawyers in this House? To hide Mr. Babiš's true identity by selling it to his children and his wife? And to sign a dedicated and fictitious contract - that's another offence - a dedicated and fictitious contract for the sale of shares, and the acquirers didn't take over these shares and didn't even pay them. I'm asking again: Is it a crime to sell an unnecessary company at a price according to an expert's opinion and earn 20 percent on it? Yes, that's the purpose of business. Make a profit. And it can happen sometimes without a tender. And what's a fictional contract? It is a contract that exists, signed by both parties, there are proofs of payment of the purchase price and a transfer protocol for the takeover of shares by new acquirers. These documents are all available to the police. So again, what's fictional about this contract? Plus, my role, my personal role in this story ends at the end of 2007. I wasn't interested in what was next with the company being sold. As in the case of the sale of other unnecessary companies within the Agrofert Group, which I sold tens, or I participated in their sale. The goal was always, logically, to make money for such an operation, which I think is normal in business. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also familiar with the efforts of some of you to counter the timing of delivery of the request. I know the argument that there are elections every year, and the police couldn't do it at all. But let's face it, we're standing a few weeks before the national elections that take place once every four years to decide our country's next direction. And that's definitely not a coincidence. I can't shake the impression that negotiating our extradition for criminal prosecution is meant to serve one purpose, and that is damage to our media image. Fair political competition, in my opinion, has been replaced by a media police game in which my current management career and my professional and personal honor are questioned. And I dare say that this is the last desperate attempt to reverse the democratically ongoing electoral process in which the leaders of the political party or the movement whose preferences have so far indicated possible success. [[10.00 hours]] One of the key objectives of our movement, which has been set and enforced in fact for the entire four-year term, was the fight against corruption, scheming. And it's my request for extradition, at least that's how I see it, to prosecute is the outcome of this fight. I have been active in politics - or in high politics, because I have worked in municipal politics for a long time - in a commercial sphere where mistakes and personal failures are not pardoned, and you have personal responsibility for each decision. And if, in a similar way as in my case, they were purposefully taken out of the context of any action or actions of certain persons and artificially linked to the actions of other persons, then the ad absurdum can be criminalized by any one of us. I know the House isn't a trial, and it can't judge any of us's guilt or innocence. But it scares me that there is no willingness in the House to perceive specific lies and fabulations in the request for the extradition of Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim of my performance is not to ask or beg you not to publish me or to publish us because we are not afraid of it. We didn't do anything wrong, and the truth will eventually come out. I am convinced that the entire investigation into the grant to the Farm of Capi Nest is, as I have said here many times, a police fable, and it would never have happened if - Andrej Babiš, I - were not in politics. And I'm not gonna be part of this dirty game by recommending or asking you to vote. Today's vote will actually be the biggest test of all of us and with us Czech democracy. My previous speakers and I - or my previous speaker, but surely there will be others - have proved that so called. The case of the Farm The Cape Nest and the request for our extradition is a political case. And we've all been sitting here, we've actually been hearing for months before the election, that the police are gonna start prosecuting us just before the election. It's been a public secret for months to be charged, Mr. Babiš and I. It is therefore up to you and your conscience to vote today. Andrej Babiš and I can't lose today in my opinion. If you give us up, it'll be our moral victory, if you don't give us up, it'll be our moral satisfaction. Finally, I would like to tell you that I myself will vote in favour of my extradition. Because I am life's optimist, and I believe I live in a state of law. I believe in the professionalism of prosecutors and the independence of the court. We didn't do anything wrong, let alone illegal. And the truth in the end, I think it will prevail, and we will clear our name. Unfortunately, in our case and to the detriment of Czech democracy after the elections, because nothing will happen to the elections. But the purpose of this political conspiracy to damage our movement has been fulfilled, but that is unfortunately our Czech policy so far. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u13	Thank you and I have two factual points here. First, Mrs Němcová, then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u14	Thank you for the floor. In a limited period of two minutes for a factual point, I would like to comment only on three moments - from Mr Babiš's speech to one and Mr Faltýnek's speech to two. I am referring to the deliberations of the mandate and immunity committee. Mr Babiš complains that the mandate and immunity committee did not give him a copy, and his prosecutors, the police's requests. [[Legal]] I would like to say to the Chamber of Deputies that this is not what the mandate and immune committee has ever done in any case. He did not issue a copy of the application to anyone and there was no reason to make an exception. We made an exception in allowing both gentlemen to accompany their attorneys to the mandate and immunity committee, which we have never done in the past. They got this bonus. As far as Mr Faltýnek is concerned, I do not know how he can talk about what is and what is not in the file which is definitely not available to him at this stage of the investigation. As for the second thing I want to mention. The meeting of the mandate and immunity committee was completely professional. The fact that we have a resolution in front of us on the table is the same situation as the fact that you, Members of the House, had the resolution on the table yesterday, so that you could study it, read it and prepare it. Once again, and in all cases, the mandate and immune committee has a proposal on the table, because it is complex legal issues that we do not dare sew on our knees in relation to the House and the public at committee meetings. Furthermore, I want to say that all members of the ANO movement present at the committee meeting, three out of four, did not contest this procedure, nor did they ask for further documents, nor did they ask to hear any other persons! Everyone voted for the resolutions you have before you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u15	President Kováčik, then President Faltýnek, still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u16	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice day, everyone. Mr President, Madame and gentlemen, I am quite sad about what I hear here and what we are all experiencing here. I would perhaps like to hear some details in quotation marks better explained or perhaps give it a view that I, as a long-term MP, a long-standing politician and a member of a long-standing opposition political party, see, at the same time, a person who honors parliamentary democracy, because, simply and simply, thanks to parliamentary democracy, we can at least have elementary trust in the institutions of the state. And so, in line with what Mr Faltýnek said here, I also think today's vote will be a test of democracy. But maybe not the way one of us here thinks that by not giving up, we're kind of gonna prove that democracy works and that it's really cool here. It is precisely in order for those institutions of the rule of law in democratic society to prove that there is nothing to be done by the sheidra, as they say, by the side influenced illegally, that all the processes that are going on are going on as standard and correct, I am convinced - and Mr Faltýnek said in the end that he himself would vote in favour of his extradition - that we should give way to the processes of a standard democratic society and that both of these colleagues have been released. I want to express my conviction that all these processes will be carried out by default and that both colleagues will be cleansed. Then it'll be the satisfaction. And finally. I would like somewhere, perhaps in the same detail as we are dealing with the problems of, say, the top ten thousand here today, also dealing with the problems of the lower ten million. Now teachers will strike, they have why, and other categories of our fellow citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u17	President Faltýnek and then Mr Fichtner. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u18	Thank you for the floor. In short, I would respond to the position of President Němcová. I'm sorry, I don't know the practice of the mandate committee. I was just surprised that there was a resolution on the table and nothing changed after the debate. That's the first thing. [[Response from the right.]] I'm sorry, I don't know the practice. But what's or isn't in the file. Of course, I don't know what's in the file. But I do know what was passed on to the police in order to demand evidence. And the things I've been talking about, the evidence that there's no fictitious contract, that there's been contracts of sale, transfers of money, etc., it's all been handed over to the police. I assume that's what the file says. But you didn't ask about it. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u19	Mr Fichtner, Mr Huml after him and then Mrs Havlová - factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u20	Thank you for the floor. Good morning. I know what's in the file, but I'll save that for the show later. However, I would like to correct Mrs Němcová a little bit in the context of the correctness of the parliamentary debate, because she said that the fact that an advocate or defender of the Members concerned was present on the mandate and immune committee, was an exception, that it was only in this case. It's not true. It wasn't an exception. Maybe in general it can be an exception, but it repeats itself. It is certainly not an exception that would be specific to the negotiations that have taken place. When you remember discussing, for example, the issue of the ROP Northwest, there were also MEPs' lawyers. So at this point, I beg to differ. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u21	Mr Huml.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u22	I would just point out to my colleague, Faltýnek, that what was on the table was basically a description of the deed, and there was nothing that could be changed about it, because according to the rules, the deed must be accurately described in the extradition process. So then the vote was to issue - not to issue. Basically, that's all there was to be voted on. Changing a word last to change the content of the deed, which must be identified exactly with what the police are asking for, was pointless. Otherwise, your speech was good. But it's Mr. Babiš's political speech, Mr. Faltýnek's for trial. The mandate immunity committee and the Chamber of Deputies really are not a court. And we can't judge the subjective side, evidence after proof, contract after contract, three and a half thousand pages and drill into it. The subjective side, once judged by the court and wrote a judgment or judgment, maybe it will be on ten pages and it will be dealt with for six months, if not a year in court. Don't be mad at me, it's not the purpose or the mandate immunity committee or the Chamber of Deputies to judge you. That's why it's a good speech, but, as I'm saying, it's for the court, not for us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u23	Mrs Havlová, then Mrs Němcová, then Mr Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u24	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot remain silent this time. As the current chair of the Public Affairs Association, when Public Affairs left the political scene, I have to comment on this because it seems to me that the situation is repeating exactly the same as in the previous election, when such an event was taken on Mr Bárta. You're saying he could have defended himself after that, that there would be some kind of satisfaction. Yes. That he got an additional apology from the Justice Department, that he got compensation, who found out? No one else. Then what satisfaction will it take? None. So I had a big dilemma about how I'm going to vote today, and I've been waiting for Mr. Babiš and Mr. Faltýnek to comment on this. You have the code to forbid immunity altogether. So I'm saying you want to be published and you want to defend it all. But until now, I'm not convinced I'll support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u25	Mrs Němcová, then Mr Hovorka and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u26	Thanks for the word. I am now responding to Mr Fichtner's words, a member of the mandate and immunity committee. I don't think we understood each other. I was talking about the fact that the police were able to meet the Members in the presence of their representatives, which had never happened before, and in this they were given a bonus. I was not talking about committee meetings where we always invite, if that is what the Members wish, even their attorneys. In this, it was above standard in favour of both Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u27	Mr. Hovorka, then Vice-President Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u28	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable members of the government, my fellow Members, just as my colleague Fichtner has said. I don't think any of those colleagues who have looked into the file have taken the opportunity to say that they know the file because the file has 3,500 pages in several files, four of which are completely inaccessible because they're classified. So, yes, I'm sure colleagues can have an idea of what's where, in which file room, but no one has had the opportunity to study 3,500 pages. Basically, no one can know the file in any detail except the police. And let's not really judge the reality here. We're assessing whether or not the extradition request is politically motivated. That's all we decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u29	Thank you. Vice-President Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u30	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Of course, I understand what my previous speaker said. On the other hand, we must also respect a certain legal framework. I spent the whole morning self-censoring, when I'm still kind of narrowing down and narrowing down my speech, I don't want to... I have a lot of background, and I have a lot on my mind. I get it. I'm not at the final hearing. So I'm gonna use that moment to cut back on my speech and respond to what my colleague Huml said. He's right that we should, of course, assess the request in some way, but he only touched on the objective part of the crime that there's a description of the crime. But, of course, it should also include a description and evidence of a subjective page. And that's actually what's going on here. I would like to read you the judgment of the Supreme Court, which is in 2013 and which states: If the decision in question is to be a Chamber of Commerce/Sensual, rational, regardless of its broader social impact independent of the later outcome of the prosecution, it must be done on the basis of a quality of information which, at least with a higher degree of probability, justifies the suspicion of a criminal offence committed by a Member. After all, the agreement of the relevant criminal prosecution chamber is always pronounced for a specific act. Therefore, the request should, in effect, have roughly the essentials as it already has the resolution itself on the statement of the charge. And here we have repeatedly judged that a description of the subjective aspect, in this case proving intent, of a deliberate crime, must also be included in the resolution. And it is an obligation for Members to judge us and this page, although we are then only assessing the issue or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u31	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Plíšek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u32	Mr President, dear colleagues, I must respond to my colleague Vondráček. The request of the police authority fully meets the requirements of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This is not really an investigation file that should address in detail all the essentials and all aspects of a potentially committed crime. This, of course, must be included in the investigation file at the time of the preparatory procedure. This is not even possible for it to be communicated to potential accused persons or their legal representatives. Mr colleague, we have already had several applications here during this parliamentary term, and we have even had applications that were more concise, in some cases we have not even received an investigation file, or we have not been able to get acquainted with it. On the contrary here - and here I want to stand up for the mandate and immune committee - was indeed a fairly broad range of information on the basis of which we decided. Indeed, both the investigator and the supervisory prosecutor were present in line. We received surveillance clearance from the Supreme Prosecutor's Office in Prague. Members had the opportunity to consult the investigation file, they had the opportunity to get acquainted with the request, although the Rules of Procedure Act says that Members are only speaking personally in criminal proceedings. And here, as a bonus, we have also made it possible for lawyers to get acquainted with this request. [[10.20 hours]] So please, let's not confuse things here, and let's not measure different subways, because we really don't make decisions for the first time. Unfortunately, I have to say here from the representatives of the ANO movement that they have acted differently in their approach to immunity and are performing differently in this parliamentary term. In the case of their politicians, they have doubts and talk about a dedicated man. In the case of others, they have always voted in favour. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u33	Mrs Válková, then Vice-President Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u34	Mr President, dear colleagues, I have a rather easy position, because what I wanted to say was very briefly and clearly expressed by the Vice-President, my fellow Member Vondráček, so I think I would wear wood into the woods if I repeated the same thing. But I would like to draw your attention to three moments. Very briefly, because it is a factual point. Few pay attention to the term 'higher probability', which is precisely the content of the Supreme Court's decisions, which we should respect because it concerns the work of the Chamber of Deputies. Of course, we can also despise him and not follow him. I think it's a good clue. Secondly, I have confidence in the institutions that have been appointed here, especially in the prosecutor's office and justice. I think, as a number of us, that it is very good, and I very much welcome that Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek want their extradition because they will be able to clear their name. Thirdly, I think that here in the House, we are now witnessing an attempt at the so-called depoliticisation of a process which, according to my internal conviction, bears significant signs of an attempt to reduce the preference of the ANO movement, and I fear that the only option we have at this time is to really let this case be dealt with freely to law enforcement authorities, because otherwise the debate will continue to revolve around. We can't convince the convicts, and that goes the other way. Thank you, and I'm sorry that I may have dragged two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u35	No, no. You still had three seconds. Vice-President Vondráček and then Mr Benešík and Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u36	Thank you for the floor. My colleague and I are quite complementary. I respect, of course, that my colleague A Plíšek as a lawyer has a legal opinion. That's normal. When two lawyers meet, it means three to four opinions in one room. But here I quoted the Supreme Court's decision, which directly concerns the Rules of Procedure. By the way, it's the 2013 judgment, and it concerns the Rath case, so maybe in the past we didn't have this insight into the highest authority, which is the only one who can interpret the law in this republic. I say again that the problem with this request is that they are completely absent from the claim of a higher probability rate on the subjective page. I also think that I have the right as a Member to criticise that the quality of the application submitted is legally poor. I'm saying it here with full consciousness. I recommend to other laymen, for example, to contact an entirely independent lawyer active in criminal matters, maybe to give them a brief consultation on what they think about this request. This is, of course, a difficult thing. It's a political thing. I am, if you'll notice, completely calm, but I'm trying to bring in some legal aspect, because every time I feel worse, I turn to the law. And what's written in the paragraphs, and what the courts judge, that's just the truth. I quote you the Supreme Court verdict. It's not a legal opinion made in Radek Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u37	Mr. Mr. Benešík. Then Mr Okamura, then Mrs Černochová. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have understood from all this talk, and, after all, I think it has also been explicitly said that everyone is trying to remove Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek from politics. Basically, I understood that this House is judging Mr. Babiš and Mr. Faltýnek because it simply cleans Czech politics. I therefore ask if everyone - I am a representative of a very traditional political party, which has been here for almost a hundred years, has been here longer than Mr Babiš's original party and a little less time than Mr Faltýnek's original party - what is KDU-ČSL's share of this. None at all. We just got an extradition request, and we're talking about it, and we're either gonna decide or we're not gonna decide. That's it. And if anyone here is saying that it's supposed to be a media lynch, that it's just being directed against them to compromise someone before the election, then I have the opposite impression from the discussions and the newspaper articles that Mr. Faltýnek and Mr. Babiš are supposed to help. That's just how it feels. Please do not bring everyone to these discussions KDU-ČSL. We have absolutely nothing to do with this, and we will decide according to your moral code of the YES movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u39	Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, it is essential for the court to decide whether or not a crime has occurred as the Chapi Nest project was financed from public funds intended for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and Andrej Babiš or Agrofert are not small or medium-sized entrepreneurs. Those are the facts. Therefore, we in the SPD consider it proper and necessary to fully investigate the subsidy title of the Tea Nest. Let me take a closer look at the issue of European subsidies. The so-called European subsidies actually flow directly from the taxes of our citizens and also indirectly from the money that European companies take out of our country. That's why I dare say it's all about our money. EU subsidies create a corrupt environment and destroy the fair business market. To put it simply, they are mainly here to strengthen the European Union's power over our country and provide resources for the party-business mafia at different levels. It should have been a long time ago on the agenda for Parliament's meetings on what happens to subsidies and that they have a corrupt character. For example, today we know that in the famous case of the regional operational programme ROP Northwest, police have so far estimated the damage to 13.9 billion. Kroner and one of the accused have already testified that at least hundreds of millions have flowed to the influential members of the ČSSD and ODS and apparently to the party treasury. Finally, I would like to say that the members of our SPD movement will vote in favour of the release of Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek in accordance with the recommendation of the mandate and immune committee of the Chamber of Deputies, since the only one who had the opportunity to get acquainted with the police file. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u41	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Another point of fact is made by Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u42	Thank you. By your means, Mr Vice-President - Mrs Válková, Mr Vondráček, that shame does not slap you. You know, I quote from Mr. Liberty's release on February 4, 2014, what you said here. Mr Válková, through the Vice-President, you said in the extradition of our colleague ODS Mr Bohuslav Svoboda: "So I would like to join Mr Vondráček's speaker, saying that we should not replace the criminal court, that we respect the principle of presumption of innocence. And like him, I believe that Mr. Svoboda will be in front of our independent criminal courts if he is ever brought before a criminal court if the prosecutor does not stop the prosecution, he will clear himself, and I think there will be more satisfaction for him than if we decide now that we will only move that time by four years." Mr Vondráček said in his release to Mr Svoboda: "I think this country needs a decision from an independent court that Mr Svoboda is innocent, that he is acquitted of the prosecution. It takes a lot more than our decision not to be prosecuted. The Chamber of Deputies can't be some kind of hiding place, some kind of hiding place from prosecution. This is not an attack on this institution." Mrs. Válková, Mr. Vondráček, shame on you!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u43	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Vice-President Vondráček. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u44	Thank you for the floor. Now I don't know, there's probably the same problem that we're not listening to each other. What I said a moment ago is not at all contrary to what you read. I criticized the poor quality of the police's request... [[Messenger. - No!]] Yes! And I didn't read the whole thing yet, and I was like, "In conclusion, I say again, I have my fingers crossed for Mr Svoboda. I consider this accusation absurd, and I attach myself to the idea of who would do those mayors and mayors to us if this were to be prosecuted. Let an independent court tell you. Let us not replace the work of the court here in this House. Thank you." I don't want to replace the work of the court. I also said I don't talk like I'm on trial. I was just saying that if a cop wants to hand someone over, he can't just describe an objective sequence of facts that he finds in a business register, and when he claims there's a deliberate crime, he has to deal with it and at least roughly label the evidence so there's a higher degree of probability. He didn't do it. That request is lousy. That was a discussion between me and Mrs. Válková. About publishing, not publishing, how I'm going to vote, how I feel about it, I'm duly logged in to discuss it. I had a mere reminder of the quality of the request. So I'm not ashamed, notice that I'm still calm, and we'll continue to discuss this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u45	Thank you. Mrs Válková's point of fact, then Mrs Černochová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u46	Dear colleague Černochová through Mr President, thank you for pointing out my speech to me, because literally, as I listened to it, it was almost to the letter of content as I said a moment ago. I'm really more shocked, and maybe it would be good to watch me from the record now that you see a contradiction. I have stressed here that I very much welcome the decision of Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek, Members who want to be issued precisely so that an independent court - hopefully it will not even happen, and if it does, he - has decided what they are telling us here - means that they have done nothing, virtually. This does not show signs of a crime of subsidy fraud and damage to the EU's financial interests. So I am rather shocked because I have always considered you - through you, Mr Vice-President - as a correct colleague who listens and who is not subject to any emotional political outbursts against someone who remains consistent in her speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u47	Thank you, too. Now, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u48	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think that the words that have been spoken here by both Mrs Válková and Mr Vondráček, that everyone can play from the screen. It is indisputable that both Mr Vondráček and Mrs Válková here have, in their own way, questioned the work and objectivity of the law enforcement authorities. That was very clear on the microphone, so we're not lying in our pockets! And by the way, the speech I referred to, Mr Vondráček of 4 February 2014 in publishing Slávek Svoboda, he began with the words: "On the other hand, it is clear that the actual crime was most likely committed there, to the extent of not very small, in the order of tens of millions. That's not why we're here. We are not here to replace the activities of law enforcement agencies by deciding whether to publish or not. If we have confidence in independent justice, if we have confidence in the police, functioning by uncorrupted police, then let the colleague clear himself in criminal proceedings." Vice-President Vondráček, through Vice-President Bartošek, you have already executed your sentence on Mr Svoboda on 4 February 2014, so what are you playing at here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u49	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Vice-President Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u50	Thank you. I don't know, maybe I'll stay downstairs so I don't prolong it. We've turned the debate on a little bit here. I'd like to ask my colleague if she'd read me yet, because I've got it all set up and underlined. I wanted to read it in my speech too. I'm applying. Please, and again, don't misinterpret me. That's where the claim was about other perpetrators than the former mayor. That was about Opencard. I read to you here that I am holding Mr. Svoboda's thumbs, and I consider this accusation absurd. This is also a response to Mr Huml, who says, do not say the point is that we are now measuring double standards. This is how I performed at Mr. Svoboda, Mrs. Kailová's, too. I said I thought it was a ridiculous accusation and a bad police job. This is a legal assessment that I hope I can make as a Member. It's just my legal opinion that police work should be done better. And I will quote myself because, of course, then I would like to explain why and how I will then vote. Let's not put something in our mouth that didn't come out, let's act right, let's move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u51	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Válková's point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u52	I do not want to delay, colleagues, just by your means, Mr President, I would like to ask Mrs Černochová, if she remembers how they voted then in the case of Mr Svoboda, if the ODS has also taken a clear position as it is now taking in relation to the case under discussion of the extradition of Members Babiš and Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u53	Thank you. Mr Gazdík, Mrs Černochová, followed by Deputy Prime Minister Gazdík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u54	Good morning, dear colleagues. I think we're wasting some time, because both Mr. Babiš and Mr. Faltýnek want to be released. So far, we've heard who did everything and when, but that's not what we decide. That's what law enforcement is for, and we all know it. At the same time, we hear and read that traditional parties want to eliminate YES and its owners. The mayors and independents are certainly not a traditional political party, yet we do not see the police intervention in this extradition request and we do not see political intervention in this. We just know that the case wasn't completed ten years ago, but about three years ago, and we think it should be investigated properly. The motive for this also gives me the statement made in this House by Komárek during the release of Mr Svoboda, when he said: "I just want to make it clear that we, representatives of the ANO movement, were probably not fully understood, when we are told that we are some inquisitors who want to give up some poor man just because we have it in the program. No, ladies and gentlemen! It is only because we are solidarity with citizens who do not have the immunity institute and cannot appeal to any House and have to go through the police and judicial procedure and clear themselves. So we just don't want to be more equal with equals. [[A round of applause for members of the ANO movement.]] " Please, even in this case, let us Members not be more equal among equals! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u55	Thank you. Now, Mrs Černochová's factual point, Mrs Lorencová will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I don't know if a colleague The Válková didn't listen to the performance at the time when Mr. Svoboda was published. Perhaps I could revive her by saying that Mr. Svoboda was issued for a political decision that he made as mayor of hl. m. Prague, and the ODS just pointed out that this is a political process covered by immunity, unlike Mr Babiš, who is being accused or investigated for property offences. That's a hell of a difference, Mrs Válková, through the Vice-President, you must feel that judging for a political decision as mayor and judging for a property offense isn't even 100 metres close to each other. And by the way, I was just asking Professor Svoboda when he got the verdict after we issued him in 2014. Do you know when he got the verdict? Last week. After three years. Is that normal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u57	Thank you. Now, Mrs Lorencová, then Mr Fiedler and others. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u58	Mr President, colleagues, I am here to give my opinion on the whole matter that we are spending so much time here today. I think it's the only thing, nothing else - the fact that money can be cut off, money canals that have been flowing here since the early 1990's to individual persons and, most importantly, to political parties. At the same time as Babiš arrived in this House, there was a great risk that the money lines, where and where the money flows, would be cut off, cut off. That's the risk you need to kill Babiš for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u59	Next up is Mr Fiedler, Mrs Válková will be prepared. And I'm going to ask you, colleagues, to be quiet, to understand what individual speakers are saying here. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u60	I have very embarrassed impressions here from discussing this already so politicized case. This case was already politicised at the beginning, on the one hand, by a party to the dispute, which seeks to define against Mr Babiš and the ANO movement, and, unfortunately, by the MEPs who issued it themselves, who used it again to play the role of martyrs who unfortunately accepted this policy. I think that Mr Huml was right, who mentioned here that the situation would be ideal if Members did not have immunity, they would be silently accused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u61	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech. I'm going to ask you to take care of any things you need to deal with in the lobby, so it's quiet here. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u62	Then I ask for an extension of time, Mr President. [[- Please.]] That Mr Huml was right, who said that those Members should be accused quietly, without immunity. It wouldn't be mediated, and the courts would decide, and there wouldn't be the kind of politicization that we're witnessing here. I firmly believe that, at the same time as the elected Members, officials who have exercised supervision are being investigated, who have stated that everything has been okay in this case, because if the police are saving it, I hope that even those officials have made some mistake and that they are already a long-standing investigation. And one last mention. What was said here - in this place some time ago my colleague Marek Černoch stood behind me then, or there was Prime Minister Sobotka behind him and colleague Černoch asked him directly: Prime Minister, will you issue an audio recording from the government's negotiations on privatisation of OKD? We could have been much further in this case of OKD. The Prime Minister didn't answer yes or no, as he's used to, he didn't answer at all. And that's what bothers me about this whole case. I have an opinion on the course of this case that we're dealing with. [[I'm sorry, your time.]] And I got it clear. But what bothers me is what has been mentioned here that many other cases to a much larger extent have not been resolved to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u63	Now, Mrs Válková, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u64	Oh, I really don't want to lecture anyone here, at least much, I would say, politically, at least a more powerful colleague, Mrs Černochová. Fortunately, we no longer have political crimes, and I am sure that the new criminal code, which we approved in 2009 and became effective on 1 January 2010, even more stressed the differences between the different categories of offences in relation to the particular facts on the one hand, or, in the case of the latter, has really removed any reliance, virtually. the remnant, the criminal law that was in force before, from 1961. Thus, the new criminal code from 2009 does not only operate, but does not contain, in substance, any evidence of what was typical of the criminal law, which was valid until 1989 without amendments, and then has been amended many times, so that it gets into the modern form, which no longer allowed anyone to prosecute, to prosecute politically. I'm very concerned that there's something here that's inconsistent with the important ODS representative. In fact, if we had political crimes, we would not be a democratic rule of law, which is contrary to our Constitution. So I'd like to set it right. Even Mr Svoboda was issued for a crime, although it was not an act of property. I think I'm exhausted - we can talk about the crime it was issued for. But I think that the Chamber of Deputies is not an appropriate platform for interpreting these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u65	Thank you. Now, Mr Vondráček, Mr Stanjura will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u66	Thank you for the floor. I would still like to respond to my colleague, Černochová, who spoke of the verdict. I have quoted myself here that I consider the accusation to be absurd and that I am holding the thumbs of my fellow Member Svoboda. I have to confess, and I've actually already done it in the media on public television, that if I had the insight that I now have, if I had the personal experience, which is simply inalienable and non-communicative, it concerns our movement now, I probably wouldn't be able to vote the way I did at the time. I hereby apologise to Mr Svoboda for voting in favour of his extradition. I apologize to him for my youthful attitude in 2014 in February, because if I knew how it worked, I would probably vote differently. That's just the thing that happened to me in the last four years. I don't know if it's good for this House and this state or not. As for the fact that this is a property activity, and this is a political decision, the debate was held and I conducted it with my colleague Polčák, who is no longer here and who pointed out that Professor Svoboda announced publicly in 2012 that he would be running, and the attack came on him in 2013, timed before the elections. And, of course, because he was a public worker before, they found something on him from the public sphere. Now Andrej Babiš is running, and since he's a businessman, they found something on him from his business history - a ten-year-old case. I can see in that parallel.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u67	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjura, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u68	First of all, I would like to appreciate the apology of Vice-President Vondráček to my colleague, the former mayor, Professor Svoboda - late, but still. So I really appreciate it. Mrs Válková through the Vice-President. Maybe we don't have to take our word for it. It wasn't us who said it was a political attack, police provocation, a purposemaker, a campaign, timing. It wasn't us. So if anyone's involved in politics, it's you and your movement. So you've gone down a lot today, and that's a good thing. But if I take a statement from Vice-President Vondráček in recent weeks or yours in Events and comments, it was still "doubt the police, police provocation, fabulation, inventions." And everyone's talking about farms today, so I'm gonna talk about the farm, too, but the Animal Farm. And you who have read it, you know very well what the central motto is: all animals are equal, but some are more equal. And unfortunately, many of you are proving that in this case or in this parliamentary term. That's all. You say, on the one hand, that you don't want us to judge, and I totally agree with that, and I won't comment on the case at hand, that's not even my job, but you're saying, "There's no evidence missing, there's this missing, this." I don't know, I'm not even a member of the mandate committee, and it doesn't bother me at all. [[10.50 hours]] All I know is that Mr. Mayor Svoboda-- you said he was issued for a felony-- if he was so suspicious, didn't you? Since we're supposed to be taking the floor, like you did. But he was charged and charged with voting, political voting. That's what we saw the difference. Prosecution for political vote. And now I don't want to tell you the case if he put in a review and what the officials who recommended said. And today, there's a police request for acts that have nothing to do with political voting. That's what we agree on. And that is the fundamental difference that we see and rightly pointed out by my colleague Jana Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u69	Thank you. Now, Mr Kučera, with a point of fact. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u70	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to be involved in that hour-long carousel of factual remarks that explained the legal opinions and concepts here, but I will still use the fact that I am now performing, and I will ask you, through Mrs Válková, that if it is quite correct to say that we have no political crimes and no political processes in our country, and it is astonished that something like this has been said in her opinion, even though it has not been said by ODS colleagues, please explain it nicely to the President, because I have heard from him at least 15 times over the last two weeks that this is a political process. So either we have them here or we don't have them here. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that each of us could imagine a more pleasant moment than discussing this point is not comfortable for anyone. Although we do not, of course, decide on guilt and punishment, it is not our place to do so, we only decide whether to give free passage to the decision on guilt and punishment, nothing else, at the TOP 09 faction I dare say that yes, we will give free passage to the decision on guilt and punishment, without, of course, in the sense of the Criminal Code, daring ourselves to take any judgment and punishment. However, I would very much like to turn against some things after all. I would like to turn against the way both President Babiš and President Faltýnek here attacked some Members of the Chamber of Deputies and some political parties as part of his speech. I completely understand that they're trying to convince us that they didn't do anything. No doubt they have the right. But at this point, in my opinion, they do not have the right to attack anyone, and I strongly oppose it. It was not one of us who deceived the public and lied to the Chamber of Deputies for months about the real property structure of the Cape čapí. Only Mr Babiš lied to this. He's lied many times and many times, it's on all the audio-visual records. It wasn't any of us. It wasn't any of us who took ownership - and I'm now leaving it entirely to independent authorities whether it was a crime or not, but that it did happen, there's no doubt - none of us took possession of 50 million for small businessmen. That was only Mr Babiš. If he hadn't lied and taken the money that was originally intended for someone else, we wouldn't be here today. So where does Mr Babiš get the right to attack anyone other than to defend himself? And against his behavior and his attacks, I want to fundamentally fight back. That's the first thing. The second thing I want to defend myself against, repeated it today in my speech, repeated it many times in the media, that as an argument that everything was in perfect order - I will wait... all right, ministers, thank you - that, as an argument that everything was in perfect order, it often states that Minister Kalousek entered an extraordinary audit in 2013, which did not find any particular error. Well, that's true, of course, and it needs to be said what the audit has and what the audit was supposed to do to find out. The audit was tasked to check and check that the individual items were properly financed and that they were booked in a factually correct manner. Whether what was stated in the request that the money would stand up for it and that it was actually built for it and whether it really was accounted for as it should have been. Except for minor misconduct, it really did happen. You'll really find the money there. Well, I've never been there, but if you go there, you'll really find them. And that was the audit assignment. What is at the heart of the alleged subsidy fraud that the investigator blames is not the accounting and financing of individual items, i.e. what the audit did, but the obscured special-purpose changes in the property structure that took place over time. And it is in them that, in the clouded changes in property structures, the investigator sees - and I confess that I do, too, but I must not say this authoritarianly - the investigator sees the core of the subsidy fraud. And he didn't solve the clouded property structure. That wasn't the problem. So saying there was an extraordinary audit, and that's why everything was okay, it's probably the same as if I said I had a perfectly healthy heart because I was on a colonoscopy exam with a negative result. [[Let's hear it across the hall.]] I would end up with two polite questions, which I would like to ask to President Babiš through Mr President. In October 2015, he tried to call into question my credibility and competence to perform the public service by false claims that I was being investigated by the police. And in a very fundamental way, he argued that a person who was being investigated by the police was not fit to hold public office. That claim was false, because I was never investigated by the police in the sense of the Criminal Code, because I was never accused of anything. I offered President Babiš a $10 million bet publicly, President Babiš accepted it publicly, lost and never paid. [[Laughs in the hall.]] So I would like to ask two questions: 1. Now that, President Babiš, through Mr President, you will most likely actually find out what it is to be investigated by the police, whether you do not want to pay the honest debt after all, because those charitable organizations whom I promised the money are eagerly waiting for them and they know that you have lost them and they know that they have promised them. That's the first question. 2. The second question is whether you insist on your claim of October 2015 that whoever is being investigated by the police is completely unfit to hold public office. I'd appreciate it if you answered, and it's your decision, of course. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u71	Thank you, too. I have factual points here. First, Mrs Lorencová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u72	Mr President, colleagues, if the Cape Nest, the case of the Capi Nest was one of the dozens that this House should have dealt with long ago, or given someone to prosecute, the whole movement would probably be YES and maybe the whole The Chamber of Deputies raised its hand to issue those who participated in the case in some form. [[11.00 hours]] Because it's a one-billion-dollar case, out of the hundreds of billions that left here... And you can, and especially the ODS, where it is mainly intended - hundreds of billions thanks to the laws adopted by this House and proposed by 90 percent of the ODS representation. Many of these cases are suspended today. But let's at least look into the history of the case of alcohol. Since the beginning of 1990, untaxed spirits have flowed until people began to die. And then suddenly, the case of untaxed alcohol became a methanol case. But it was still the same alcohol, and the money kept running away. Unfortunately, it's all probably out of bounds, so there are very few details to be talked about. I don't think I'm gonna get much more opportunities. Today, I am struck by the rare unity with which this House - this House - feels directly from the House - with which you approach the liquidation of those two fellow Members.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u73	Thank you. Now, Mr. Procházka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u74	Thank you for the floor. I can't do it, I have to fix my colleague Kalousek a little bit through Mr President. We should at least follow our legal order a little bit. And he says there's something like a physical person and something like a legal person. And he said that Mr. Babiš took the subsidy. I mean, that's not true. The grant was given to the Farm Capi Nest, which is a legal person. And if we look at the terms of the subsidy, in my opinion, if Mr. Babiš asks for the grant as a natural person, then I think he could definitely get it and be entitled to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u75	Thank you. Now duly registered with the priority right, Minister Zaorálek. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u76	Thank you. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I was intrigued by Mr. Faltýnek's line. Mr. Faltýnek said that today, here in this House, it is a test of all of us. I very much agree with that. I really think that such moments in the House come when, in fact, the test is taking place. There's a test on who we really are. Because we write to each other when we go to the elections, different codes in which we commit to something. We, when we go to the election, we say we work for people, we don't act like superhumans. That's all we're saying, and we look like it's gonna apply. And the test comes at the moment when something begins to relate specifically to ourselves. So I'm here to see the scene we're having today, actually, he's been here many times when we're confronted with the principles that we're entering politics with. And from this point of view, I'm looking at Mrs. Babiš, Mr. Faltýnek, Mrs. Lorencová and others who, with such pretty ideals, have also entered politics and now have the opportunity to show how serious they are. If they're ordinary people, or if they want something special for each other. And, you know, it seems to me that the painless act I'm hearing here, the talk about the flow of money and the amount of good intentions you've got to excuse the fact that there's something wrong with you, that's all the unnecessary extension of the House's actions. That doesn't really belong here. I didn't need to hear a lot of the things that were said here from Mr. Babiš and Mr. Faltýnek's mouth. That really belongs somewhere else. You could have forgiven yourself. We could have been doing more important things. Many of the things you said were catastrophically inaccurate. Mr Babiš here said that Kubice's report in 2006 led to Mr Paroubek's fall. That's not true. It was 2006. Mr Paroubek resigned in 2010, for example. So it didn't destroy us. It's just that when you go to the polls, friends in politics, people bring things up on you. Hillary Clinton went to the U.S. election, and the FBI chief pulled her e-mails shortly before the election. That was an assignment, wasn't it? He pulled e-mails on it. And she even thinks her team has a major impact on the election. But the boss at the FBI said he didn't answer his question about leaving the information after the election. U.S. cops just said they didn't have a responsibility in front of people to let that information show up after the election. Poor cops. What do they have to do to make it not an asset? I'm rejecting all this rhetoric about a dedicated man. Do you understand? She's basically misleading. We'd agree to what they're imposing on us here. Well, the police -- and more importantly, you know? Maybe there was a whole other purpose there. I remember Mrs. Bradáčová's performance, in which she said that if anyone was stalling and obstructing, it was the private subjects. I might as well say to myself that it was your purpose. You guys needed to get this case for the month before the election so you could play this painful performance of the victims who want to destroy the matrix, and they're not allowed to. Maybe it's your purpose game. You guys got it just for the really perfect time when you guys are gonna make a mess of yourselves here in the House. So the whole talk of purpose-making is meaningless. And, you know, it seems sad to me that you've all been saying how you're gonna take care of these people, and in the end, you're paying most attention to your own case, your own pain, your own whining. So you're gonna be crying all day tonight. That wasn't enough? It's undignified. You're not able to face it a little... I also had to go on TV when David Rath was arrested. And it wasn't pleasant for me. And I went there. Well, it was just trouble. That's how I dealt with it. Then don't be so soft about it. [[Laughter and applause from the left and right side of the hall.]] Well, let me tell you something. You know, I find it incredible how criminal proceedings are being attacked here. It's an attack on a man who has an Attorney General. The role of the Minister of Justice is - he must have - he controls, he is in charge of making criminal proceedings legal. That's his jurisdiction. Or the Minister of Justice, who recently almost challenged the rule of law... You see, that's the pain. When it comes to you, you're able to do even such a scandalous thing that you have four years of competence for how criminal proceedings work here, prosecutors, and you're able to kick it yourself. I told you yesterday. It's as if I said here: I'm getting sick and weak from the foreign policy of the Czech Republic. Well, I could just walk away, couldn't I? That would be polite to abdicate if I screwed up like this for four years. And I think that government has done a lot of very good things. But I'm really not thrilled that our idea of execution is growing, that we have fraudulent insolvency, that nothing has been done with fraudulent forensic experts. You know, if instead of this time, which we're doing completely senseless here, we should have technically dealt with in half an hour if we were to do Studénka's case, if Mr. Justice Minister, if Mr. Babiš were on the run here because there's been an investigation into the case that they were dead since 2008. It's been under investigation for nine years! It's completely catastrophic what's going on in there! That, if the House were involved, that would concern those people. You might as well say you're here for the people. You're here for yourself. To me, what I see here is genetic egoism, what I see here. You're obsessed with yourself. [[Applause from the left side of the hall.]] Let us end this negotiation on a point where the House has nothing to explore, to decide whether there is any material basis or whether the set is empty. We see that the material base is there. This family home is really weird. So let's just do something important in this House. Please, let's end this! It's embarrassing, and for you, it's... I think your whining is undignified.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u77	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First, Minister Pelikán and then Vice-President Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must turn against one thing. Perhaps in the ideas of today's leadership of social democracy, the rule of law works by ordering ministers to do something for prosecutors or police authorities. For all I know, maybe that's what social democracy ministers do. That's not what I'm doing. I have no influence whatsoever on the course of criminal proceedings, and I am proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u79	Thank you. Mr Vondráček, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u80	Thank you for the floor. I, too, wanted to take a strong look at two things. First of all, against the label that I'm soft. That's what others might say. There's no way Minister Zaorálek can say that. I'm serious right now. I would like to strongly oppose the Minister here telling us what we can or cannot discuss in the Chamber of Deputies. That's our right. And we've learned to respect it here, too, so respect it and don't criticize it. Especially when I read in the papers that it's long overdue, I think this debate is right now and it has a price. It is a democratic debate in the Chamber of Deputies. And mentoring us and using the dead of the Studánka case is outrageous! It's beneath us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u81	Thank you. Now I've got another point of fact. Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u82	It's a little hard on the opposition when government officials are doing this to themselves. What's to contribute? But I must say that I agree with the Minister of Foreign Affairs that the Minister of Justice is not a man in his place, and at the same time I agree that, under his leadership, foreign policy was terrible to settle both. [[Glee in the hall.]] Mr. Vice-President Vondráček. I'm glad you said we could say what we thought. And who said anything about a blabbermouth? How many times have I heard from you: be quiet, we know what you're going to say. Who here, undemocratically for the first time in the history of the Czech Parliament, ended the debate? How did you vote, Mr Vice-President? How did you honor this principle that even the opposition could say what it wants and considers to be important and appropriate? I don't know, I'll take a look, but I'm sure you'll know. I think you were up for it. Then don't cry here! You confirm exactly the words about animals that are more equal. We're supposed to give you space, that's okay. I don't mind at all. Just tell yourself how badly you ruled, who couldn't handle the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and who couldn't handle the Justice Department. And I also heard from the Attorney General how the Home Office works suspiciously under that minister. That's what I heard. [[Glee in the hall.]] You barely need the opposition. But it's just a theater. Three and a half years or four years, you've taken one bad law after another. You were hand in hand. When you tried to silence us, you voted hand in hand. For colleagues from social democracy, but also from KDU: How did you vote to interrupt the meeting at Capi's nest? To the farm? How did you vote? Remember who interrupted the meeting. And now you're complaining, and suddenly you're upset because it's right before the election. After all, we have called on both Members to give up their mandate and not to burden the House. They made their own decisions, and they themselves brought the čapí's nest into the campaign because it suits them, because they make sacrifices of themselves. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And they don't have to file accounts for how badly they ruled.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u83	Now, the MP has taken it Vyzula. Then Mr Grebeníček, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. So I was a little provoked by the performance of Minister Zaorálek on genetic egoism. [[Glee in the hall.]] I mean, for God's sake, what's going on here? Here, basically, when we look at it with normal eyes from the point of view of an unlawyer, from the point of view of a non-member of the mandate and immune committee, the very essence of democracy is being challenged. Consider a number of examples from the world. It keeps repeating itself. Someone came up with a perfectly simple scenario that we would simply compromise someone in any way before a major political action and be done with it. The last example of a presidential candidate in France, Francois Fillon. Who's investigating today if he's given some 2 million euros to his wife? Does anyone care today? No, no one. We don't know, I don't know personally. And if we continue with this scenario, which is absolutely simple, trivial, there may not be a big brain for that, then we're slapping democracy. It is a brutal attack against democracy, so let us oppose it. Let's make a new precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u85	Thank you. Mr. Grebeníček. Mrs Němcová will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are therefore to decide on the release of the Chairman of the YES movement and his fellow Member, Faltýnek. And we're talking about a subsidy of CZK 50 million, a case with the picturesque name of the stork's nest. It wasn't so long ago that the koruna bonds were shaking. And there was talk of Andrej Babiš's entrepreneur saving in taxes in the order of tens of millions of crowns. Some talk about the electoral conspiracy and the need for social democracy and some other parties to go after the electoral opponent, others to save specific cases. The truth can be both. Because it's all about measuring by the same meter. So that the public can see that the laws apply to everyone and everyone is called to account. Unfortunately, what is happening reminds a little of the farce, if, in addition to the request for the release of the Chairman of the ANO movement and his colleagueFaltýnek this House is not about the release of the current Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. In addition to the subsidy on the Chapi Nest, as has been said here several times today, since 2004, there has been a case of the state enterprise Ostrava-Karvinsky mines and 44 thousand OKD flats associated with the name of the finance ex-minister and the ex-chairmen of the ČSSD. And in this case, it's direct damage estimated at at least 6 billion. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It's a tunnel in which tens of thousands of tenants lost their pre-emptive rights and their apartment and tens of billions were taken out of the business, with subsequent damages being paid by the state.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u87	Mr. Ambassador, I'm sorry, but you made a point of fact. I'm asking you to respect the time of two minutes for a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u88	Too bad, too bad. The last sentence?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u89	Thank you for respecting the Rules of Procedure. I would like to ask Mrs Němcová with a factual remark. Minister Zaorálek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u90	Thank you for the floor. In my point of fact, I want to respond to Mr Vyzula's words. The strong words that are being questioned here by voting on the extradition of these two Members, Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek, of the very principle of democracy, are that this is a brutal attack against democracy. I would like to remind you that two months ago, which I am sure you will agree with me that it was also before the elections and quite close before the elections, the Chamber of Deputies voted on the extradition of the Communist Member, Mr Borka, a former member of the ČSSD, I don't know exactly how it is, Mr Novotný, and no cries from anyone that the very principle of democracy is being questioned in their extradition, because they are close to the election, or that even democracy is being trampled on by it, I have not heard from anyone here. Not from the YES movement. So the only words that are still confirmed are that you take on completely different standards than the other, that what you say to voters, in practice, is that you convert what you say to the opposite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u91	Thank you. Now, a factual remark from Minister Zaorálek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u92	Thank you. Of course, I wouldn't dream of encouraging the Minister of Justice to enter individual cases. But if there's a problem with long criminal proceedings, it would take, for example. A new penal code that would allow us to respond to the problems here. So I wasn't talking about breaking into the case of Bílovec etc., but there was enough time for such a new penal code to be prepared, as well as for a number of other standards that the House unfortunately didn't see. And maybe we could simplify the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u93	Thank you. Now, Mr Procházka, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u94	Thank you. I would like to respond to the President of Němcová. She mentioned the ROP Northwest. I'd say that's the very reason that leads me to the great doubt that I have in that case. Because if you remember correctly, she took 24 people there in November sometime last year, then saved about six months, there was some court decision in the first place, even I think in the second instance, and only after the police were, to say the least, charged, she asked for two more MPs. But in this case, don't be mad at me, there are 11 people in the application, the police are asking for two MPs who aren't, or they're not thinking about being the main defendants, and the police aren't doing anything but two months before the election, they're just trying to influence the election. I don't have another word for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u95	Thank you, too. Mr Stanjura's point of fact and other factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u96	I'm gonna try to take seriously what my previous speaker said or what President Faltýnek said in his performance, that it's two months before the election, that's not supposed to happen. So try to tell us when this can happen according to the YES movement. There's gonna be a government building after the election, that's too bad, isn't it? It's too bad before the government gets together to burden the negotiations with this. What if someone could use it and use it in the coalition negotiations? Well, then the government's gonna get together. Then he comes to ask for trust. Well, that's bad again, isn't it? Key vote. The Chamber of Deputies must gain trust in order to rule for four years. It's not a good time. And that's where we are: January, February. So when's it actually appropriate? There are Senate elections next year. Laws are passed not only by the House, but also by the Senate. Well, that's too bad, isn't it? Because if he gets charged and asks for some parties, she'll be disadvantaged in the election. [[unintelligible]] He won't have enough representation in the Senate, God damn it, what that upper chamber is gonna do to the lower chamber and the government. Then there are municipal elections. That's where most of our teammates run at all levels. Well, what if it affected the election? That's too bad, isn't it? So I think 2027 is the deadline, the first year of no election. So if Mr. Babiš and Mr. Faltýnek are elected four more times, and if you get a majority for not publishing four times, then the 11 years will be postponed, and then in 2027 you come to the microphone and say, "Hey, guys, this year's good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u97	Thank you. Now, Mr Novotný, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u98	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't want to perform, but it was mentioned several times here, in the end I was practically invited to say something about my extradition and the extradition of my colleague Mr Borka. I'll just give you the facts. Firstly, I did not have the opportunity to perform here at the time I was issued, because I asked both the Chair of the Immune Committee and the President of the Chamber of Deputies to make it another day, because on the day it happened, I was excused and could not attend, so I will now say the following. First of all, about the trial. The police sent a request for extradition, but at the same time, they've already charged us, which was a process of totally non-standard, which is unprecedented. It followed that in a month, the prosecutor canceled the charge on which I was issued to write another one in three days. So these are fundamental procedural errors that... Actually, I should be republished on a new charge. As far as property or damage to the North-West ROP is concerned, it's constantly said 13 billion. Please, the roads are standing, the schools are standing, the hospitals are standing, and there was no subjective aspect of the matter at all when I was published. I worked as a governor and my interest was to develop as much as possible the Karlovy Vary Region. And that was it. And that's what I'm being blamed for today. It was a political decision. I've heard from the representatives of the ANO movement: we're not dealing with whether you're guilty or not. I understand that. We're dealing with whether it's political or not. And you found out that you didn't, and you issued a recommendation. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I'm sorry, but that's what I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u99	Thank you. We will now continue with applications with priority rights, first Mr. Interior Minister Chovanec. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not want to speak today, I only wanted to express myself by voting, but after the speech of Minister Pelikán, there is no other way to respond to the whole thing. I didn't even read the so-called thing. An anonymous criminal report, but whether it's anonymous or not, it doesn't change the validity of the problem. I have not even read the initiative to the European institutions, I do not know the file and I do not know the request for the extradition of the two Members. In the past, I have spoken very modestly about this, and I have only spoken of it if I have defended the standard rule of law and police practice against my colleague Pelikán, who should be the guardian of the fortress in this country. If a politician in this country has evidence publicly indicating that the police are working on a contract, that it is a political case, that it is simply this problem, it sounds something from the mouth of any Member. From the mouth of the Minister of Justice, it's a whole different matter from my point of view. Criminal proceedings in the Czech Republic are governed by the Code of Criminal Procedure and according to Section 158 (1) the police are investigating all findings where a criminal offence could be committed. Subsequently, it is moved under Section 158 (3) of the Criminal Code under the supervision of the State Attorney. So let's tell each other the truth, folks. And if anyone in this country thinks that a wild cop is capable of accusing anyone in this House, anyone in this country, then that's what they should be defending. the supervision of prosecutors, i.e. the prosecutor's office. There is supervision of this supervision, i.e. supervision of supervision. Another level of control, then. And not only was he supervising this matter, but he was also supervising the Attorney General's Office, many times here from the report by Mrs Lenka Bradáčová was quoted, including the obstructions that were to be committed there to prolong the investigation period. I don't know who it was. But it wasn't the police, and it wasn't the state's attorney. That's clearly what the report says. ANO colleagues who have spoken here often speak: Police, Police, Police. I would very much like you to say police and prosecutor's office if you feel there's something wrong. When we were dealing with the so-called. The police reorganization case, which you have very well fed politically, has been made clear here from the mouth of the Attorney General, Pavel Zeman, that the prosecutor is the master of the preliminary criminal proceedings. I believe Pavel Zeman is right. I am also convinced that Lenka Bradáčová, who was overseeing supervision of this matter, did not overlook anything. And I'm convinced that surveillance was done right there. Once again, on this ground before you, through Mr President, in this case, I would ask Minister Pelikán to document all his public statements, to put the evidence on the table. If he has them, I ask him through Mr President if he has turned to the General Inspection of Security Corps, or if he has filed a relevant criminal report on a police officer or anyone else, or if he has been called upon to say at least something about the matter, and he has kept silent, so why hasn't the government suggested that the Government should turn to the Security Information Service if you have, colleagues from the ANO movement, the feeling that there is destruction and obstruction of free elections. [[11.30 hours]] But, if I remember correctly, the Security Information Service was called the Constitutional Protection Office. What greater value in this country, our constitutionality, is greater than free elections? If someone is thwarting them, and you have the evidence you talk about so often, put them on the table, or contact these authorities exactly under the law within the rule of law. From the mouth of the Minister of Justice, it has a devastating effect on the trust of the Czech public in the state and in the justice that the Minister of Justice is to defend. Today, there's nothing left to do but complete the process. I don't want to make any political announcements here. I just want it to be obvious how criminal proceedings are handled. And please don't put the dog's head on the police. And if you have evidence to do what is right. So how he turned to the last brake and rescue when he does not know where to go, Mr Vondráček, who said: If I do not know where to go, I will turn to the law. Why aren't you doing this? Why don't you defend the principles of the rule of law? And why the Minister of Justice isn't defending them, that's not clear to me at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u101	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights, Mr. Vice-President Vondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u102	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I saw the look on my colleagues' faces when I was carrying the papers. But don't worry, I will correct my speech in a really significant way, because I've already said a lot to myself. I just noticed I forgot something upstairs, so it's gonna be even easier. Of course, I have prepared for this debate in some way, because it is actually the first time a person can express himself in a comprehensive way, of course, even in the media. However, there is usually a person's response to questions and can't cover up his thoughts. I consider it important, I have a deep need to tell you why I will act in the vote as I will, although the initial position of the ANO movement was absolutely clear in 2013. In 2013, we came up with the idea that we considered it appropriate to maintain only so-called. Indemnity, whereas the immunity we are talking about now, is basically a relic and a historical outlast in a functioning rule of law that has justice that we can trust. Unfortunately, some personal experiences are really non-transferable, irreplaceable, and here we are facing a confrontation with reality and the situation around us that is happening around us. We were mainly based on this, and it was also part of the debate with Mr Polčák, that the immunity originally arose in England to protect the members of parliament in the absolute monarchy before the monarch and took place 40 days before and 40 days after the sitting of Parliament. It served so that the king could not close them on his way to Parliament so that they could attend Parliament's meetings. So it was not the protection of parliamentary members, but it was the protection of Parliament so that it could take place at all and in a simple way the king would not prevent them from doing so. The immunity developed gradually, but it is still not the individual's right, the immunity, but it is the privilege of the House, and we are only its carriers. I've been... Fortunately, we have already dealt with the fact that I will no longer read myself, but I would really like to point out the debate that has a lot to do with what is happening today. And one of the main players was Stanislav Polčák, who is no longer a member of Parliament today, who said: "I must say that after careful study of the file and other materials, I have concluded that there is no need for prosecution. And, like my colleague Tejc, I have to doubt, to some extent, whether the qualifications of the deliberate crime presented to us by the police are not sufficiently relied upon by the specific factual circumstances which would result in the culpability in the form of intent." We've already argued with Mr. Svoboda about the intent. What we suggested with Mrs Válková in the technical comments was the intention. And then Stanislav Polčák argued that the case law, which is fully applicable, for example, in the case of Mr Faltýnek, when he stated that if the laypersons, which Mr Faltýnek was in the position in which he was to conclude the contract, would rely on legal advice given by lawyers or other, of course, persons who knew the rights, without there being any other specific circumstances from which to conclude the incorrectness of such advice, cannot normally be justified by intentional fault. This is the Supreme Court's judgment, which is completely contradictory to what has already been put before Mr Svoboda's case by law enforcement authorities, and it is also contrary to what has been submitted to us as a request. Especially if we consider what Mr Faltýnek has already told us and, therefore, that the company has been sold at a profit, above the book value. In fact, I find it very hard to see any intentional crime. I will skip a few more speeches and I would like to finally get to what my colleague Polčák said: "I want to say that I was quite a keen supporter of the abolition of immunity. We even organized a petition for this in the Zlín Region, I collected the signatures of the citizens. But after a person inside that organ learns about the different possibilities of how some cases have been brought about, he has to change his mind, and so I publicly declare it." So I got a little chilly from the parallel because I didn't agree much with Mr. Polčák there. I'm not reading it. I met him recently at the village of the year in the Zlín Region and he rushed towards me and reminded me of it with great taste. With a smile like that. Well, unfortunately, I'm here after all I've seen and watched, there's nothing left to do but tell him the truth. About that particular timing. Here are some arguments that I have to put up with. Repeatedly in the media, here in this plenary it is stated, and specifically that Agrofert, Agrofert did everything he could to create obstacles to a proper investigation. We now know, through what is publicly available and what lawyers know, that criminal proceedings were essentially initiated in the first nine months before any acts requiring the cooperation of persons took nine months for the police to proceed. Until then, she was inactive. On the other hand, if some people are blamed for not providing synergies, e.g. IMOBA, a really large joint stock company, which is the real estate manager, as far as I know, within the group, was granted a period of days to provide complete accounting for the company for eight years. I beg you, who is in the business sector and who knows what kind of information that is, complete accounting for eight years of a company that may have billions, millions, I don't know, turnovers. So they politely asked for an extension of the deadline, and they fulfilled that deadline. Then a few people reportedly apologized for being sick, but immediately they set up a replacement appointment and testified. Please, where's the delay? It's a false claim, misleading. And unfortunately, if that's what the surveillance report said -- Mr. Stanjura is not here right now, I promised him I'd say it here and on the microphone -- yes, it's not true. If this is confirmed in the D.A.'s report, it's not true. Nobody was thwarting, everyone apologized properly. [[11.40 hours]] If I evaluate the extradition application separately and the negotiations described there, I'm telling you here for myself that the objective side is the sequence of events that we can find in the commercial register for the most part, is capable of documenting and putting together a paralegal, a paralegal, in two days' time. And if we add some more information according to Section 106/1999, that's six months at the most. The police aren't depending on that. So the question arises as to what other evidence the police were gathering almost another year, why these were not presented to members of the mandate and immunity committee, who have already stated that they were not familiar with the complete file. All of this leads to speculation about the proper procedure and timing of police action. And please don't put it in our mouths that it's our fault. Primarily, it is the police who are primarily responsible for maintaining the dignity and good name of the police. I have an important point to make about what was said here at the beginning that the two Members would have had the opportunity to purify themselves. It's 45 days before the election. Even if they had the resolution on the initiation of the prosecution written and handed it over, what will be done in those 45 days? What process procedures are to follow now? Because there's one important thing. According to Section 11 of the Criminal Code, in the event that there is - and this is still to be expected - a reelection of these two Members, so not that the proceedings will be suspended until the next issue, but the proceedings will be terminated. It must be stopped. That's exactly what they say in the Code of Criminal Procedure. And all actions falling under the suspended criminal proceedings will no longer be used, if necessary, in the new proceedings if we decide to issue again. Or an event. Maybe if the MPs weren't elected, that's okay. So it's either or. Answer for yourselves what is likely. And those cops don't live in a shell. They perceive social events around them. They also have to confront themselves a little bit with reality, they're not cut off. And the principle of the economy of prosecution is still a principle of criminal prosecution. We had a nice discussion at the club, I'll be shorter, really 11.42... But I really think that it is one of the most important things for law enforcement authorities to make an impression on the outside about the dignity of the institution and its impartiality. And in this case, they grossly violate and repeatedly give reasons for wild speculation about the independence of their actions. That's my point. We still confuse cause and effect. The presumption of innocence is good for everyone, including politicians. And I personally would take this as a challenge to the new House, in some way legally, somehow doctrinally, functionally, philosophically, once again, to address the issue of immunity and perhaps to amend legislation, because it also proves inadequate in relation to the mandate and immune committee and its relations with the police. There's basically no rules. And how it will be viewed in the files was actually a matter of a certain agreement of the parties. For example, I will read you the Constitutional Court's decision on immunity: the purpose and purpose of the parliamentary immunity institute, as it has developed in Europe in the process of creating a democratic parliamentary system, is to constitutionally guarantee the freedom and independence of members of parliaments, to prevent their possible limitations by virtue of power through any possible abuse of their criminal prosecutions. This is, in particular, an important guarantee of the protection of the parliamentary minority, the real functioning of the parliamentary opposition in a system in which the authorities of the preparatory proceedings of criminal proceedings are subordinate to the executive power, which is in the hands of the parliamentary majority. In addition to this cleansing, I would like to remind you that the preparatory proceedings for criminal proceedings are not public. And I'll bet whoever's in this room, I've already offered it on the radio to a colleague that there can't be a prosecution in those 45 days. With the support of all our knowledge of the prosecution in the Czech Republic, we will not see the prosecution filed by 21 October. It's not possible. There are a lot of people who are not Members who have not even been heard. You've heard that maybe Mrs. Babišová didn't testify at all. All these actions must take place, further evaluation must take place. Then it has to be handed over to the D.A., and it has to be processed by the prosecution. There really can't be an indictment, and cleansing is purely illusionary. We're still in the field of claims against claims. And the fact that the request we received here is legally poor quality, that's what I stand for. And it's just the error of the request that we're in this category you believe in - you don't. Some people simply believe there's a conspiracy, there's an organized group, and that's why it's given, they just believe in the story. And when someone doesn't believe, they just don't believe. Unfortunately, the request does not contain any relevant evidence or reference to proof that this is not the case and that it is not merely a story. Because I've been reading the tapes, I'm gonna read what somebody here said, and you know, he's one aspect that's important. If I were convinced that there was some evidence that couldn't be done in, like, two, three years, when this House period was over, like scent marks or some witness, when he was dying there and he just wouldn't be able to go to trial after that, then maybe I'd go to the argument that there was a need to be published. But it needs to be realized that it doesn't just have a legal dimension. It has a political dimension, and let us not be ashamed of that. The work of a Member affects the lives of thousands, hundreds of thousands of people. And now I'm gonna ask you. Can a Member who is criminally prosecuted for something that has nothing to do with anything at all, even if it has nothing to do with the negotiations in this House, who is being chased in the media every time he is interviewed by every paper he receives, really can perform this function properly? - Who said that? Pavel Blažek, 10. 6. 2014. I'm sorry Pavel's not here today, he could have responded. I was looking forward to his participation in the debate. So I'm going to let go of the other stews that I have here a lot, about who had the attitude, what the opposition representatives said about the extradition of Mr Liberty. I would like to point out that in the past, we have not asked anyone to give a mandate. We never called on anyone to take up a mandate. We honor the presumption of innocence, and everyone has the right to purify themselves as we sit here with several colleagues who have made it possible. I consider these challenges purely pre-election and purely hypocritical. If I don't do it alone, I can't challenge someone else to do it. In conclusion, then, I must say that not so much on political culture, so it rather sheds a bad light on the rule of law, that after more than 20 years since the Velvet Revolution still among people, among Members, but among ordinary people there is still a feeling, an intense feeling that criminal proceedings can be produced in this country. And the responsibility is virtually zero. Have there been cases like Mrs. Parkanová who's been waiting for, what, the seventh year? Now I don't know, the fifth year? There's a Nečas case that basically ended up completely lost. This is where the government fell, there were bombastic press releases, and yet we don't have one final conviction. All this time. For the entire term we've been here. My colleague Blažek, for example, used a comparison on the constitutional law committee with the accusation of the German President, who was accused, subsequently cleared himself. And what responsibility did those who accused him accept? I don't know the details - I'm saying it's a shame a colleague isn't here. I would like to refer, after all that has been said, to my factual remarks, where I have reservations about the legal quality of the document. I have reservations that we have a 45-day deadline here. You know, this isn't about the release at all. It almost doesn't matter. In fact, if we look at it with common sense, it almost doesn't matter if we publish it or not. In addition to what some here are presuming that it might occur that they are saying: The initiation of criminal prosecution is necessary for possible detention, for property provision, for house searches. Please, we're talking about a ten-year-old case that's already completely settled. That's just where it's hard to get reasons for bonding. I strongly disagree. [[11.50 hours]] Yet the wish is the father of the idea, I have heard this from some colleagues with my own ears, and not only at committee meetings, but also in the media. Do we really live in a country where someone is supposed to be closing down, confiscating his property? We're having fun, of course... The property of Andrej Babiš is worth significantly more than 50 million crowns. Resp. this one is placed in a trust fund. Would that be attacking this entire transfer? These transactions? And would a billion-dollar asset be provided for $50 million? Would there be house searches? Why? The only reason I see is that these are politically involved personalities and that this would be very attractive in the media. I would also ask that we distinguish a little bit between the case of our President and the President of the club, which actually, when you find the courage to look at it objectively, has nothing to do with the case of the Cape Nest. He just sat in some kind of organ for a while. At the end of my speech, I would like to say, and basically, Mr Babiš said it here too, that if it was about Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek having, or should not remain in politics, whether they should or should not sit in the House, so that a voter would decide, rather than a police officer. I can't forgive myself a little bit behind this counter, sometimes it comes down to that, I can't forgive a slight pathos. I would like to read the full quote by John Donne, who borrowed Ernest Hemingway for his book Who Rings Played: "No man is an island for himself. Everyone's a piece of some continent, part of some land. If the sea flushes a lump, Europe is smaller as if it were a cape, as if it were your friends' farm or yours. Every man's death is less of me, for I am a part of mankind. And that's why you never ask who's ringing the bell. It's ringing for you." I'm warning you that the M.O. here in this case is universally applicable to anyone. Just collect public and semi-public information, edit it into a seemingly logical story and without any concrete evidence that is necessarily required in criminal proceedings, put it on paper and submit it as a fact. I've already apologized here for my previous vote. As a former member of the mandate and immunity committee, I did not really believe that a judgment could be given in the case of a colleague. But anything is possible. Therefore, under the weight of the four years that I have spent here in the House, my work in the mandate and immune committee, now thanks to the insight that I have a little, thanks to the membership of the Committee for Investigation of Escapes from Criminal Files, when I learn more and more information that does not raise positive feelings in me, I really have to express myself in the sense that my opinions in 2013 were youthful and did not correspond to the reality of the Czech Republic. You have to experience it on your own. For me, it's crucial here that not only this person is being prosecuted, but also his family members. I think such a case has never been so massive in the Czech Republic. I don't think we're aware of this case. We live here. But this case may be part of the class someday. This is such a big affair that we need to learn about it and the politicians will mention it for years. For myself, I've always been for extradition. Why, I told you. Because I thought it was a historical outburst that basically no longer makes sense in the rule of law. We also published in the vast majority in this House. But after all I know, family members are already prosecuting, after I know you won't see satisfaction for years... And we said specific names here. We said to a fellow Member of Parliament who received his sentence last week, who waited for him for a year. As far as I know, Mrs Kailová has been waiting for him for eight months and she hasn't received him yet. Where's the cleansing? Where's the chance to clean yourself up? I don't want to leave my opinion that immunity isn't part of modern democracy. But in light of these events, I can't go on, or I can't shine here, and as much as I can do, I'm probably not gonna take part in the release or non-release vote. And in the future, I say that I have made a significant rethink of my views. That's an explanation for a colleague who's been reading my statements to me. I stand by them. But I just know more today. [[The speaker walks three steps away and then comes back for a response in the right side of the hall.]] Excuse me, there's something else I heard. Yes, I also said that, some experiences are non-transferable, irreplaceable, and must be personal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u103	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. So do my colleagues, so don't yell at each other. Now, therefore, with priority rights, Mr Lank. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u104	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, honourable members of the government, nice almost noon. I had some pretty extensive material prepared, where I wanted to take the whole thing apart from the point of view of the immunity idol and so on. But the big part of the information has already been said here, and I'd just repeat myself for nothing. That means I'll only contribute with my, let's say, ideological little bit to the mill, as others have done here before me. Mr Babiš, Mr Faltýnek through Mr President, we realista always try to see things realistic. Let us imagine for a moment that you have always tried to behave in the interests of this country and this nation. Realistically, it must be said that this effort does not appear to be very successful at the moment. Plus, the past has caught up with you now. The stork's nest is a business case that happened before you joined politics, and that's why, in my opinion, you have to act like men, so you can't hide behind the MP's immunity. You must face your past and publicly defend yourself in criminal and judicial proceedings. And I am very glad that you declared in advance that you would do so. The politician who does business must not use a policy to protect his business interests. The entrepreneur will always prefer the interests of the business to the interests of the state, otherwise he would probably not be a very good entrepreneur. Personally, as a realist, I recognise that you have achieved many achievements in politics. You've built a political movement that has preferences, and maybe despite all this, or that's why it's going to win the next election. On the weekend you presented a program that is much like the Realist program. I am pleased and pleased that, like us, you place great emphasis on security and national interests. But as a realista, I am also telling you that you have come to the moment when you have to choose: either to leave in time and show that you are not concerned about personal interests, but about the interests of the country and its citizens, or to stay and join the parties you originally wanted to fight against, because the case, suspicion and various missteps are almost as much as they were in the past. I know it's up to the voters. But I wonder if you need it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u105	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Šarapatka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u106	Dear pre-election debaters, it has just been said that even if our two colleagues are to be issued, there can still not be an accusation due to technical deadlines. This means that the new House will go back to the same process. We're all de facto determined from what I've heard here. So let's vote, and let's not do that here. I think this House is supposed to serve something else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u107	Thank you. We will certainly vote, but we must respect the Rules of Procedure, which means that everyone who is duly enrolled in the debate will speak first. Mr Rais, who is now duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u108	Thank you. Hello, esteemed colleagues. I would first respond to the thesis about the whining that Minister Zaorálek has said. I believe that every Member has the right to express his opinion and that it is, of course, far from whining. In my contribution, I want to build on two sources of information. For one thing, it is a request from the police for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute two members of the ANO movement, namely Mr Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek, which is now commonly available information in the media space. The second source for me is the information provided by the mandate and immune committee. From these two sources, I believe, in line with what previous speaker Radek Vondráček said here, that the request for the approval of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute is essentially very vague and very general. Police say, however, that during the course of time they will provide further information and that they have critical reports in some file room that no one on the immune committee has seen. That's why I'm based on my limited information sources. The first thing that puzzles me about this request and which has already been mentioned here several times is the timing of this case, which is almost ten years old. It's not a coincidence. The timing of this Babiš event before the launch of the electoral campaign was definitely the intention. Our political rivals have rightly realized that there are not many ways to stop the YES movement from winning the election. The traditional Czech way, the approach, is the defilement and dehonestation of the person who can win. Unfortunately, several times in the past, the police have succeeded in engaging in political play. Let us remember the so-called Kubice report, where Mr Paroubek was, among other things, identified as a pedophile, and after the election, no one cared that this claim was a classic lie. But at the critical moment of the election, part of the electorate deviated from him. In the case of the extradition of Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek, the situation is even worse than in Mr Paroubek's case. It is not "just" about tarnishing the good name of the Member, but it is an attempt to eliminate it from the public, or if you want to eliminate it from the Czech political space for some time. And, of course, this is about damage to the whole YES movement before the elections. However, I believe that the Czech electorate is not stupid and will examine all the desperate attempts to eliminate a strong opponent and, on the contrary, give Babiš a voice. And what's in the material plane of the Capi Nest case? I'm going to give you some simplification here. I have a long-term business in a certain way, in my case it is economic advice. Within the family, we'll agree that my son will do business under the wings of our family company. A long time ago, I created a separate business unit in the company where my main business takes place. My son will start a business within my company, under the head of our family company, of course. During the time of my son's or wife's business or any other family member, I will separate, inter alia, because I reduce the risk of his potential problems and create a new independent legal person who does business in another field. This diversification allows me, as I said, to reduce the risk of business. And a son or another family member will get a subsidy from the European Union for his small business in accordance with the laws in force. And that as a parent, I follow this child company in quotation marks, which has obtained a grant as well as dozens of other companies within the region, that is perfectly logical. If I see that the development of the company is not according to the ideas of management, i.e. my family relatives, and the company has fulfilled all the requirements that have been imposed on it in connection with the grant, there is most often a several-year condition of sustainability, then there is nothing illegal to sell it, and perhaps back to me, in order to improve my business profit. In short, if the legal conditions for granting an EU subsidy, especially sustainability, have been met, then everything is fine. And what did Mr. Faltýnek do? He showed up as a handy manager who sold with the knowledge of the owner and the principal private shareholder - I would point out - a company with a profit of about 20 percent part of another private company. And the police, virtually. A particular police officer does not seem to like this procedure. If the law is respected, the police should not enter into these sales and purchases of private companies at all. The case of the Tea Nest has for a long time been in all sorts of denials and investigations and no faults have been discovered against the laws of the Czech Republic. Like Karel Fiedler, I ask how the officers of the Central Bohemia Region have coped with the control activities and how the control of the managing authorities of the relevant operational programme has worked in the last ten years. Some workers, such as Mr. Emeritus Governor Bendl, sit in this House while his subordinates controlled the grant processes and repeatedly found no mistakes or problems. Isn't it strange that a few days before the election, there will be suspicion of misconduct or even committing a crime? I have read, like everyone else here, that during this pre-election period, someone has discovered that if there is no way to find an illegal act in the matter, there can be a clause on Mr. Andrej Babiš about the conscious preparation of illegal conduct. But the concrete evidence in the police's request for the House's consent to prosecute Members is missing. Only mist and indistinguishable claims. In this case, I really think it's all about throwing it all the way to the Andrej Babiš elections and Mr. Jaroslav Faltýnek's dirt and believing that the voters - pardonfully - will eat it all up. I believe that the voter is an intelligent and self-confident being who can prove his resistance to half-truths and unfair political attacks. The case of the Capi Nest will certainly be followed by Czech politics for a long time, because the inconclusive and unproven claims of the police investigator will be repeated indefinitely. For these reasons, it is clear that purposefulness and timing are the main reasons for the request submitted. The answer to the question of who it will benefit, cui bono, is clear. The aforementioned criminalisation process of the two Members of the House is suitable for the political rivals of the ANO movement during the election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u109	I thank Mr Rais. Have a good noon. Now I have two priority rights here. First, Prime Minister Faltýnek, after him Minister Pelikán, then duly signed up Mr Volný Member. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u110	Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. I'd say a few more words - I'm sorry, I ran up the stairs to make it. [[Breathed]] When I said here that I myself will actively stand up to the extradition process and vote in favour of my extradition, I would like to say, of course, in this context, that at the same time - and that is my right - I will defend myself with all the legal means available in the forthcoming process, which will probably follow, and I will, of course, beg and ask that the process be as quick as possible to clear it as possible. That's what I thought was important to say here. I am saying this because I would like to say a few words or read a piece of the 41st Chamber of Deputies meeting of 11. 7. 2012 when there was a rather large debate about the issue of Vlasta Parkanová, then Minister. Colleague Kalousek, who unfortunately has not been here for quite a while, several hours, has spoken and discussed. I was only interested in a short passage there. I'm sorry, it's not obstruction, I'm not going to delay, I'm just going to read the passage, which is a certain parallel to today's debate. I quote: "Now allow me to make a very brief statement in two areas on this point. If you allow, and I will understand, if some of you do not agree with me, I will allow myself to divide those who will vote in favour of the extradition of Mrs Vlasta Parkanová into two groups, those who believe that parliamentary immunity no longer belongs to the 21st century, that more than 20 years after the coup should not exist, that we should so trust the judicial system and the system of law enforcement authorities, that we should not fear that this legislature or that legislature will be purposefully bullied by applying for extradition by law enforcement authorities. I don't understand Vice-President Zaorálek, when he here, as an intellectual, says that immunity is designed to prevent executive power from engaging in legislative power. I do not know how to do this other than by asking the law enforcement authorities to issue one or the other Member. That's the point of criminal immunity. There's no other way to do that. That's what we're discussing. What other shackling do you have in your dreams, Mr. Vice-President? I can't even think about it. But this is the only institute. [[12.10 hours]] The law enforcement authorities shall request the extradition of a Member. There are either truths in that request or there are objective untruths. Depending on whether there are truths or at least doubts, the House issues. If there are objective untruths, completely objective and conclusive untruths, the House should at least consider whether this is a purposeful bullying. However, those who do not believe at all in the institute of parliamentary immunity and say, if the police are wrong to this extent, or if it is purposeful, then some follow-up will be effective and corrective enough, so let's cancel the immunity, and so let's give Parkanová away, so I understand them. Then there's the second group that thinks..." And so on. So I'm just giving a certain parallel to this statement by my colleague Kalousek of 11. 7. 2012 when he essentially questioned the police's request to release Vlasta Parkanová. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u111	Thank you, Prime Minister. With priority rights, Mr. Justice Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u112	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I have considered whether to speak here at all today, especially because there are repeated voices that would seem to make justice work, the Minister of Justice should be dumb and dull. Smiling dullly and praising the beautiful new clothes of the emperor, even though everyone sees that the emperor is naked. I don't really think so. I think that, as Minister of Justice, I have the right to evaluate the matters presented to the House and, as Mr Vondráček has pointed out very rightly here, the Supreme Court has made clear what the request for extradition should look like and what the House is supposed to decide. The extradition request is intended to be equivalent to it immediately thereafter to a logically follow-up resolution on the initiation of a criminal prosecution, and it is Section 160 of the Criminal Code, which says what must contain such a resolution and thus in the light of the Supreme Court's case-law, which must contain the request. This provision therefore states: The reasons for the resolution need to be precisely marked by the facts justifying the conclusion on the merits of the prosecution. Since the request is available on the Internet, I've studied it. I say for myself as a lawyer that I am in this application, and that is the full responsibility of the police that she wrote in that application, he has found absolutely no facts that justify the conclusion on the merits of the prosecution. And if anyone found them there, let them tell us where they are and which ones they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u113	Thank you, Minister. Mr Volný - duly registered. After that, Mr Petrtýl, Mr Vondráček, Mr Komárek and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u114	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. There's been a lot said here. I'm not really going to convince this House of Honor to publish. I think you've already decided. I don't want to question the fact that the state's attorneys should decide about guilt and innocence, and then the court will. However, I won't forgive myself for making a few notes. The fact that this case shows signs of politicisation and an attempt to clearly harm the ANO movement preferences has been said by colleagues several times, and I sign up for it. And I'd like to stick to the facts. On the one hand, I think it should be heard here, and on the other hand, I have promised to my colleagues from the Pilsen Region who have called me to do so, and they are my colleagues, they are our voters, they are simple citizens, and they are farmers who also ask for a subsidy and know how it works in the subsidy system, and they are sure that in this process the Farma Čapí Nest was not in doubt. Last but not least, and this is my subjective opinion, is that I have read in this material, and this is the request for extradition, which is so terribly guarded and secret, which I have downloaded from Parliamentary Leaves, I have read two words that are basically crucial to the accusations, or in the request for the extradition of Mr.Faltýnek and Babiš, and it is a fictitious word and it is a word to face. [[shows]] I would like to address these two words and explain to you why I think this request is made on my knees that it is unbelievable if it is based on these two words, which are basically crucial for both extradition requests. I didn't pull anything more than the selection criteria for the NUTS 2 support area of Central Bohemia, which were approved by 10. 12. 2007 I drew on a new definition of small and medium-sized enterprises, which has been in force since 1 January 2005 and which has been issued by the EU and is valid throughout the EU, and last but not least, I also drew on an audit that has been carried out several times on the Farm of the Cape Nest. I'd like to start by making that word look like a little quote from this material that describes the criteria for the selection procedure. Please, I'm not gonna read it all, I'm gonna read one and a half pages, but I think it's very important, and I promised my colleagues, and it should be here. Of course, this material clearly contains all the conditions, and there are nine of them, the general basic criteria of acceptance, there are nine of them, and they are short, it will not be long and then special criteria. The first paragraph of the evaluation of the criteria is how the audit takes place before the grant is awarded, and they are two project specialists from the project administration department and work independently. These administrators have only two options: either say yes or no. If they agree to yes, the subsidy is awarded if not, the subsidy does not proceed. It's called. Four-eye check. It's described right here. Now, I'm going to read the nine rules that this material requires of the applicant, and I'm going to get to that word and say, The application for the grant applies only to one area of support for the NUTS 2 ROP of Central Bohemia. The Capi nest has been filled by the farm. She only asked for one area. The project is the focus and composition of the objective supported by the activities of the relevant area of support for the challenge. Yes, the stork's nest has asked for the development of congress tourism, which is exactly what this challenge allows and presents for the possibility. Three. The applicant complies with the definition for the beneficiary in the relevant support area and in the call. [[12.20 hours]] Now I'm getting to this material and making a face. I was very concerned that in this material, when the police asked for Mr Babiš's extradition, it mentioned that the company Farma Čapi's nest looked different from the medium-sized enterprise. Here it is clearly described and these are three criteria, you may all know them, that is, the number of employees, the balance sheet total and the volume. All of these criteria were met by the Stork Nest Farm. How could she look different? The company can't look any different. If you take this bill, colleagues, it's a thousand-corn bill, it says one and three zeros. [[holding a thousand-coron in his hand and showing it to all Members from left to right]] It says so in writing. This bill can't look like a 5,000-dollar bill. He just can't. This means that the word "face" seems very misleading, misrepresenting and ordinary citizen who doesn't know these things, of course, gets lost in it and doesn't know what's going on. Then there are five other conditions, which means a maximum share of 50 per cent in total eligible expenditure, a maximum of 50 million. Capi's nest was richly fulfilled because their eligible expenses were 203 million and asked for a maximum of 50 million. Another point, number five, is that it must relate to the region for which this title is written. Central Bohemia. Yes, Olbramovice is Central Bohemia. Reached. The project will be implemented in accordance with the time frame of the programming period 2007 to 2013, respectively. 2015. Once again, including five-year sustainability. And you all know and all the applicants know that after a period of mandatory sustainability, the businessman can do anything with the company - sell, cancel, transfer, anything. This point has also been met. On the basis of the information submitted on the application for a subsidy and its annexes, the project is clearly in line with the relevant legislation of the European Union and European legislation. Also accomplished. And that was the aim of the project eligibility check, the applications received. That means, that's the eighth condition that the Stork Nest Farm has fulfilled. The total amount of aid applied for shall not exceed the maximum aid limit fixed for the area concerned, the aid depending on the type of beneficiary and the rules on public aid. It was a medium-sized enterprise, i.e. a medium-sized enterprise where the parameter is 50 per cent, up to a maximum of 50 million. That means the Stork Nest Farm has fulfilled nine rules of all nine. And speculation about how the assets were swindled is absolutely irrelevant. After all, there is the foundation of who and when and how he asked. That's how I dealt with the word "face." He's really upsetting me. Then there's the word "fix." I think it's even more important. Based on the word "fix," Mr. Faltýnek's request for extradition. It's a fixed contract. According to the dictionary, fiction is something imaginary, something nonexistent, something dreamy. Fictitious, sorry, fictitious. That means fictitious is nonexistent. I had the contract in my hand. I worked for years, maybe 30 years, as a businessman, as a manager, and I signed, prepared and executed hundreds of contracts. They all had the item of sale, all had the seller, the buyer, the price and the proof of payment. This treaty contains everything. What's so fictitious about that? And if only the word "fictitious contract" is to be charged in the future by Mr. Faltýnek and Mr. investigating on the basis of the word "fictitious contract" asks for extradition for further investigation, it is indeed alarming. And I think it's alarming not only for us, for our House, but it's also for the public. It's alarming for businessmen, entrepreneurs, big companies, but also for citizens who have ever signed a contract. If for a second we believe that a contract that is tangible, which is absolutely standard and bulletproof, if we believe it for a second, we're sending a very unpleasant signal to society. We say, "Citizen, be careful, and don't jump too hard. At any time ten years ago, we can say that your contract you signed yesterday is fictional, and we can sue you, too, and we can investigate you." Do we want this? So this is an example that bothers me very much, and the word "fictitious" cannot be the basis for issuing a Member to prosecute him. [[Applications]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u115	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Václav Votava. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u116	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President, nor will I wear them out. There's one saying you eat about bread, sing the song. And I fully understand that from the ANO Members. Please, let's end this awkwardness and start voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u117	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Plzák, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u118	Thank you, Mr President. I was not going to discuss this discussion, but I warn my colleague Votava through Mr President - I have a solid job as a surgeon in a regional hospital, and I am paid out of money from health insurance companies. And I don't get a crown from Mr. Babiš, nor in the movement. Don't tell me who I eat bread here, I'll sing a song like that. I'll sing what I want and sing in my opinion. And I hope that's how you do it, too, I suppose, so don't give it to us. And I think that many of my colleagues are exactly the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u119	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Chalupa is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u120	Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. There's a notic here, I think I'd like to restock it. In my opinion, I'm judging you. If we're gonna talk about this dimension here, we can continue. I'm glad that there was a very nice slogan from the previous speakers - the point of view, the time sequence, the guardians of law, security, public confidence, the credibility of this House. So let's take a closer look. As far as the time sequence is concerned, the Chapi Nest case is known to the public, to us Members, to all who also had the opportunity to watch our extraordinary meeting, no later than last spring. The very act of drawing on the subsidy concerned took place some ten years ago, but the request for the extradition of Members took place now, two months before the elections, when it is evident that the YES 2011 movement is the favorite of the October elections. If these words come out here that there's no way that this isn't connected, I think we're all witnessing a theater show that I could successfully call a comedy. As far as public relations with the House are concerned, do you think that people, citizens who are watching this meeting, and maybe even read it in the papers, that they are crazy? That what we've been doing here lately only leads to the public perception of politicians getting to the level of, say, the janitor's profession without wanting to touch the cleaners. And we did this to ourselves. No one else does that. It's us, we're working on our own reputation here. I like the lamentations of the President's direct election lately. YES, it wasn't here in the House when you voted. And now you're moaning that it was actually wrong. There are lamentations of the law on the financing of political parties, again lamentations. And from what I got from college, I know that every radiation bounces back and goes back to where the epicenter of the radiation came from. So even in this case, we're negotiating here today, you're going to get it back, and you're going to get it back with interest. [[12.30 hours]] Just a short tour of the past. On 10 May 2017, or 9 May 2017, this House agreed - The House, not a court, which is the only institution in a democratic country that is entitled to call someone guilty or innocent - so this House, in its resolution, marked that the Minister of Finance and the head of YES Andrej Babiš, according to the Chamber of Deputies, repeatedly lied and abused his media to compromise political opponents, based on some kind of wiretapping that the police had not been able to investigate until today. And I'll get to that in a minute. I feel that some Members think that they are standing here or sitting here on their ears and perhaps on their brains. So I assure these colleagues that I haven't worked here for nothing for four years, that I'm not sitting on my ears, that I'm not blind and deaf and that I'm not sitting on my brain. Mrs Němcová explicitly stated on TV that she did not need to familiarize herself with the file offered by the police to the Members for consultation because she had an opinion in advance on how the vote would be made. It has the right, of course, to do so, but it is a certain signal to those people who are outside this building, how some politicians are thinking. If a Member does not need to know the subject on which he votes, there is really something wrong. Because I have done quite an exhausting hard work in the investigative commission to reorganize the police, which this House has appointed as a substitute for the public hearing of Colonel Šlachta on the Security Committee, so that the so-called wolf eats and the goat stays whole and everything is related, that is to say, the work of GIBS, which, as a magician, can place a man in custody without any reason, but cannot investigate basically anything. What I heard on that committee about the police, about the work of GIBS etc., it's just for me - and I'm saying it's crappy for GIBS to investigate some SIM card wiretaps and find out where the device came from, who called, who didn't know where the Sims were bought, or find out where they bought it, the phone it was supposed to be in, it wasn't found until today, and silence by foot. So this is the work of GIBS. And what has been said here from lawyers and other people who are better equipped with knowledge in the field of law, I really have no confidence in the police and the work of GIBS. I'm saying this quite frankly here. It's this fog game in front of me, the fog behind me. I don't remember anyone... I suggest you go see Jeseníky, there is a very beautiful construction of former Minister Palas. Was this man convicted? Is it closed? And I think, if memory doesn't deceive me, not only was there a problem with European funds, with funding, but the gentleman hasn't explained until today where he got the $10 million that came from, that's where they came from, and no one knows where they came from. And nothing happens because here everything is played on hold and lost. And the fact that there's talk here, that it's legal, that's the fault of this House. And we didn't sit here four years ago. You've been creating laws for twenty or twenty-five years that are a legal tool to make this country lose over a trillion crowns that have been stolen and which, unfortunately, even the stolen money has not remained in this country. I've been among the people, and they say it was stolen from the communists, but those people left it here in this country, and for the 25 years it's been stolen here, and it's somewhere in the Cayman Islands, etc. So everyone should clean up a little bit in front of their own threshold. In many ways, Mr. Babiš's madness resembles the hunt for Colonel Luděk Vokál. And for those who don't know what's going on, it's a former ÚOOZ officer who has been prosecuted by GIBS since October 2015, shortly after the Vidkun event. That's what they call a cop war in the galleys. According to my information to this day, no prosecution has been written by Gibs, but a police officer is off duty, is prevented from doing anything and doing anything, making phone calls because he is being bugged, meeting people who are also being eavesdropped, etc., I would rather not even describe everything. The Commission's work on leaking information is quickly approaching its conclusion, and it will certainly be very interesting to learn how the Commission explains that leaks have been made from the file as well as, in the case of Babiš and Mr.Faltýnek throughout this investigation, when the public learns everything in advance from the media, from Czech Television. Back to Mr. Vokál. He was arrested and charged in October 2015. He spent a month illegally in custody. And that's not my fabulation or any of my assumptions, that's the statement of the Municipal Court in Prague, which stated that we had reviewed the matter and concluded that there were no grounds for bringing the defendant into the so-called "indictment." Collusion bonds. That's how much press spokesperson for the court. I wonder what the committee will tell us about Mr. Jank Kroupa, who was invited to the committee meeting, a person, a citizen, a journalist who, no one knows how and where, has very precise information, as if through a copy of a copy of a live case, living police files. Did the Commission find out where Mr Kroupa is getting a number of very specific data and knowledge? I'm going to be very interested when the chairman of the committee is here and he's going to say what they've discovered and found out. Another example, or an example, that relates to it: 26. 11. 2015 was broadcast by a report by Mr Kroupa, evidently targeted against the ÚOOZ and its director, Colonel Šlachta. What's interesting is that during interviews with the reporters, they accompanied the reporter, well, guess who? Well, the GIBS workers. The police of the Czech Republic rely on the testimony of a certain Mr Radek Vrzal, who was convicted of credit fraud and tax cuts, the testimony of Mr Vladimír Moltaš, who was convicted of dealing with narcotics, the person Saman El-Talabani, who was recently detained for leaking information from police files in the so-called. Brno octopus, and other similarly trusted persons, I can name Mr. Jiří Schön, such a Brno businessman, who has not registered in any company for fifteen years, does not own any company and is currently at the employment office. Did the commission, GIBS, Police of the Czech Republic investigate, how was it possible that when Luděk Vokál was summoned and other co-incriminations against the court of former police officer Mr. Plaňanský, the defense had wiretappings from Mr. Vokál's case and these wiretappings were not even in the file? During the period of implementation of Mr Vokál - I am still talking about this example, which in some way gives information about how it works in this country, as far as GIBS and the Police of the Czech Republic are concerned - so at this time about fifty articles appeared on Internet portals and newspapers, where a large majority of journalists stated that they had the opportunity to get acquainted with the file, while the preparatory procedure is not public. And by the way, a few hours ago, information is being published that in Reflex, the entire file is actually published on the Internet about the Tea čapí. How did he get on the Internet? Who carried him out there? Why was I talking about this here? Does it seem normal to you, colleagues, that the name or names of potentially suspected or prosecuted persons will be publicly announced, the case is described in detail and mediated and a wave of cleverly manipulated conclusions from the judgments handed down, unsubstantiated, and the public are being thrown forward by such pre-convicts? Are you shaking your heads? Excellent. Guilt or innocence is decided in accordance with § 8a para. In providing information on their activities to the public, the law enforcement authorities ensure that they do not jeopardise the clarification of the facts relevant to criminal proceedings, they have not disclosed data directly unrelated to criminal activity, and that they do not violate the principle that, until a final judgment is declared guilty, the person against whom the criminal proceedings are conducted cannot be regarded as guilty, Section 2 (1) of the Criminal Code. 2. The preparatory procedure shall not disclose information enabling the identification of the person against whom the criminal proceedings of the injured person, the interested party and the witness are conducted. [[12.40 hours]] Everything I have been able to get to know lately leads me to conclude that the case of the Tea Nest takes place according to this in practice several times already verified model of discreditation - professional, social, human and political. We're two months ahead of the election. So the rumors that they're not connected are related! How can I, as a Member, after I have completed both during the work of the investigating committee to reorganize the Police of the Czech Republic and in all the bodies of the House dealing with defence and security... Then, as the Commission's substantive conclusions on the reorganisation of the Police of the Czech Republic were interpreted here in this House, how they were grossly abused for policymaking in the worst sense. After I have graduated as Chairman of the Permanent Commission for the Control of Military Intelligence to address the alleged monitoring of the residence of the Minister of the Interior by military rapporteurs, I cannot believe in the impartiality of this House's current procedure, when now, without a matter of judgment, the Minister of the Interior is massaging the public through the media by the fact that, if Mr Babiš is charged, they will not be convicted, but given and charged, they cannot in any way be held by the future Prime Minister. The Minister of the Interior, Chairman of the ČSSD, uses politically his position and verified model two months before the elections, and also publicly disputes the principle of presumption of innocence. As a message to citizens and voters. I have come to the conclusion - and it is not my fault that I have to think in this way - that, given all the circumstances, I do not know, as an MP, that it is not a well prepared and some police authorities shielded by political provocation and an obvious attempt by this sport terminology to put it, namely unfair in a way, to remove it from the political struggle of its favourite. I can't accept that, it defies my principles, no matter who it is. So all this talk about who you're eating, who you're eating... or who you're... And by the way, that was also said here. This whole meeting today is pointless because in three months it will be repeated again. And there's a big difference in commenting from publicly available sources on whether a citizen has committed some kind of illegal act and slavery overcoming police material based on available information. This is exactly what Czech TV did under the programme News servers ČT, when it practically chewed up the extradition request on the screen, which subsequently surrounded the suspects to comment on the request. However, the fact that one of the Members slipped the report to them has yet another dimension. And that's related to the criminal investigation committee's activities. The question is, what happens when the court proves it or doesn't prove Mr. Babiš's guilt in the case? How will those who falsely accused him just before the elections be punished because of the high preferences YES? And that's politically punished or affected. Whether the investigator will be released from the Police of the Czech Republic without the right to serve? And if no one is punished, it can be expected that before the next elections, this theatre will once again be played with impunity in the interests of various political parties. I'll remind you of the OKD case. The Prime Minister has often repeated that he cannot recall the details. He spoke, among other things, of the fact that it was a standard privatisation project. The Prime Minister stressed that the sale took place on market terms and there was no illegal State aid, which was also stated by the European Commission seven years later. He did not recall the circumstances of a key expert opinion. Just like in the Opencard case, which is another interesting case that was dealt with in this House - without results. Not without results, but without any concrete impact on the culprits - is anyone locked up? [[Objection from Members.]] I'm so sorry. It appears that the officials of the National Property Fund stand before the court instead of the responsible politicians who voted. I'm talking about the political responsibility here. The question is why the Chamber of Deputies refused to set up a committee of inquiry to investigate who was responsible for the decision to give up the stock control package in 1996, and so on. That means all the things that have to do with the OKD. There is another interesting case - the lack of documentation for arbitration with Nova, which cost us 10,5 billion, which the state paid Mr Lauder to buy later Nova. Maybe there's someone among us today who can tell us some juicy stuff. But I don't think that's gonna happen. I have here an interesting example of the lease of Lina airport for 50 miles. crowns, et cetera. So let's conclude. The police are unable to investigate, or are they forbidden to investigate, who is the Shuman Group? And how is it possible that they were listening in on a member of the government? Until today, we don't know who he is, for what purpose - they're not charged. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay. What do we have the Security Information Service for, what do we have the Police of the Czech Republic for? If the Shuman group threatened a terrorist attack, of course they'd be in the knockers by now, wouldn't they? I was talking about Mr. Palas. So I won't delay it any longer. I've got more here, but... What is happening in this hall today is, in my opinion, once again and again, undignified problems that we are to solve as legislators - security, education, and more and more. This is unworthy - what is happening here today - is unworthy of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u121	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the KSČM MP's club Pavel Kováčik is registered with the facts. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u122	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mrs and gentlemen. It's a case that moves media space. It is a case that moves the House space and seems to be moving for a while, according to the number of applicants. However, let us note that the Chamber of Deputies has other tasks and other work planned. And so, in order to meet all the needs that need to be achieved and not to shorten Members' right to comment on this case, I propose now that this item be interrupted by 14.40 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u123	Yes, that is a procedural proposal that we will vote on without debate. I'm signing you all out first. I ask you to sign up with your voting cards, and we will vote on the motion by President Kováčik to interrupt this item by 14.40 hours. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 26. 139 Members and Members are registered, for 133, against 3. The motion was accepted. I interrupt this point and for 12.50 hours we have a fixed point of choice, unless there is a protest against the President's procedure. I would therefore ask the President of the Election Committee to continue freely to the point of the election. Please, does anyone have any comment on this procedure? It's not like that. I'll ask Mr. kolovratník. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-001-045.u124	Colleagues, colleagues, good afternoon. I'll be very brief in my performance. After a long and difficult debate on behalf of the electoral committee, today I come up with only one electoral point, which we can implement in accordance with the time limits under the Rules of Procedure. It's round two, point one.
