ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 262/2006 Sb., Labor Code, as amended, and other related laws /house print 903/ - second reading At the rapporteur's table, Ms Michaela Marksová and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, will take their seats. I will also ask for the readiness of Mr František Laudát, who is the rapporteur of the Economic Committee. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be presented by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, if you want the opening word at second reading... You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u2	Thank you for your word. That's the second time I've read it. Mr Vice-President, Members, I would like to remind you that the Government's proposal for the Labour Code, which was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies, is the result of about two years' work not only by the Ministry but also by the social partners. It is a compromise version agreed by both parties. I remind you that one thing that is important there is, for example, a change in compensation for loss of earnings after the end of the temporary incapacity of the jobseeker so as not to reduce it when increasing the minimum wage. This applies, for example, to: miners who have various accidents at work, but of course by far not just them. It's about anyone who's gotten into work disability because of an accident at work. At the same time, it may be proposed to ensure a return to the same post after parental leave. Now it's just the short time after maternity leave, and as we know, most parents, especially mothers, are, of course, much longer at home than just the maternity leave. Furthermore, there is a need to modify the delivery of various documents, especially statements, which are delivered by the Czech Post. Furthermore, the conditions for the transfer of employees' rights and obligations to another employer, etc., need to be specified. In fact, what caused the code of work in quotation marks to be stuck here were some amendments. And I'm going to make a brief mention of the ones that sparked the most controversy. One is a proposal to extend the vacation to five weeks for all employees and employees. Here we agreed again on a compromise proposal that an amendment would be tabled, which will only guarantee the five weeks to those who have worked for the employer in question continuously for at least two years. Another amendment concerns the adjustment of trade unions' demands to cease production or operation if there are defects that seriously threaten the life and health of workers. The next proposal concerns the amendments that govern the home office, because this has also caused many controversy. So we also agree with Mrs Kailová and Mr Opálka's amendments, where it would therefore be something between the legislation in force and the new legislation. Furthermore, this is an amendment concerning the salary of employees with the health service provider, and this will be explained in more detail here. So I just wanted to put in a good word that this law would normally be discussed and released further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u3	I thank the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová for her opening words. At first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a Committee on Guarantee. The Economic Committee has taken the initiative to discuss this proposal. The Committees resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 903/1 and 903/2. I now ask the rapporteur of Mr Jaroslav Zavadil's guarantee committee to inform us about the negotiations of the Committee on Social Policy and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, dear members of the government, let me start by saying a few introductory words as rapporteur for this press, and then just get to the things that you have been talking about. I would like to say that the draft of this law amending the Labour Code, which is House Press No. 903, brings some conceptual changes in the regulation of labour relations, which respond to the problems that arise during the application of the Labour Code in practice, ensure compliance with the reform of private law by European directives and the Mopka Conventions, or the International Labour Organisation, and last but not least try to meet the needs of employers as well as employees. In line with the principle of flexibility on which European labour law is based, the conceptual amendment of this law aims to increase the flexibility of employment relations required by the employer in ensuring the protection of employees required by employees and their representatives, trade unions. Anchorage e.g. the institute of senior management staff as a special category of senior executives under the direct management of the employer's statutory body with a more flexible working time regime shall comply with the employer's requirements. The transfer of an employee to another work on the basis of an employee's agreement with an employer, except in cases of public interest, is intended to ensure compliance with the private law reform based on contractual freedom of the parties, when the agreement replaces the employer's unilateral measure, which can currently be implemented without the consent of the transferred employee. [[17.10 hours]] In order to adapt the conditions under which agreements on non-employment work are carried out with regard to the guarantee of rest periods, the record of time worked and the protection of remuneration from agreements ensuring compliance with the relevant European Directives and conventions of the International Labour Organisation concerning working time. I would like to say that the change in the conditions for the creation of the right to leave the holiday, which leaves the holiday for days worked in the interests of greater justice, the subsequent reduction of the leave for the excused absence of the employee at work and the creation of the employee's right to leave, based on his weekly working time, from which the length of the leave is also derived, will, I firmly believe, be an asset for both employees and employers. I would like to say that adjustments concerning stress, workplace violence and distance work, including the performance of work outside the workplace, so-called. home working, aims to implement the relevant framework agreements of European social partners, to which social partners in EU Member States, including the Czech Republic, are committed. The employer's obligation to process social plans under certain conditions is introduced in the framework of better protection for workers affected by mass redundancies. Regulation of the transition of labour relations rights and obligations, which responds to the relevant case-law of the EU Court of Justice, better than today's legal situation will protect the interests of employers and employees. All these changes were supported by the social partners in the discussion of the Government's proposal for a conceptual amendment to the Labour Code in the Council of Economic and Social Agreements. I'd like to drop by a little bit here, because there's also here in the galleys, and not just in the galleys of some kind of dogma, or rather a rumor that an agreement has been made and that the standard should have been presented, and she's been presented a little differently. I have been a member of the negotiating team since 1994 and since I was in the trade unions until 2013, I participated in all tripartite negotiations. I must say that only once, and I would point out, an agreement was made which meant that all the social partners had agreed, signed this agreement, and even moved to the Chamber of Deputies to ask the Chamber of Deputies not to change the text that was then agreed. This was the only agreement since 1994, because I was in all negotiations, which was thus until 2013. Otherwise, every year it was so that, of course, it mattered what kind of government was in power, because, of course, employers were closer to the right, so they were more inclined to do some things to make them more positive, and, of course, when it was reversed, employees' representatives did the same thing. That's perfectly legitimate, and I don't see anything wrong with it. I'd just like to say that if anyone's talking about an agreement, the deal was just saying, as the code is, we'll send them into the legislative process. It's not like we're not gonna talk about any more changes. It just wasn't like that, and it's never been like that in the past. Given that this is the last major amendment of the Labour Code during this parliamentary term, some other changes have been read and approved by the Committee on Social Policy, which respond to problems the practice of which simply fails to reach the consensus of the social partners requires. Most of these proposals are aimed at or aimed at some inequalities in setting minimum standards for public and private sector employees or in line with the Government's promise and its programming documents to restore the previously existing conditions of protection for employees abolished under previous right-wing governments. Let me give you a few examples. For example, it was called the introduction of a treatment regimen that is in Section 52 below. (h) introduced as a breach of employment relations. The Government's Legislative Council has made it clear that this is a matter of public law and that it does not belong in labour law. In 2012, as far as I remember, a complaint was lodged against the Constitutional Court, which has not yet resolved this matter, so one of the amendments, among other things, is intended to let this matter go. And this way I could continue with some of the other paragraphs, where it was actually introduced as I have already said in 2012, I think as of 1 January 2012. So I would like to conclude completely with this report. I understand that there will, of course, be different opinions, that there will be different proposals for amendments to this law, and that this will also sound during today's negotiations - when there is another time when there is a second reading. However, I believe that the submitted Government proposal for this amendment to the Labour Code, including the amendments contained in the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy, will contribute to improving legislation in the field of employment relations in line with the European principle of flexibility aimed at aligning competitiveness with the demands of decent work, which I underline, formulated also for Czech tripartite participation in Mopka, or the International Labour Organisation. I therefore recommend that we discuss the proposed amendment to the Labour Code in the second but subsequently in the third reading to a successful end. I am personally prepared to go through second reading, bilaterally with everyone, with every club who is interested in this, to explain some of the substance of the amendments, the history of the amendments, so that we have greater, I would say, awareness of this when deciding, which, of course, will only be at third reading. Thank you for this attention and I would be done with this report and then, of course, we will come to another one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u5	I thank Mr Jaroslav Zavadil for the information from the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy and ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee of Mr František Laudát if he is interested in speaking. That's right. I will ask him to inform us of the discussion in the Economic Committee and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Committee has taken the issue of the amendment to the Labour Code, because we have the impression that often an account is made without an innkeeper. The Economic Committee discussed the amendment submitted and adopted Resolution 359 of 8 February 2017 to the House of Press 903. I'll skip the formalities: 1. The Economic Committee recommends: The Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic will discuss the House press 903 as amended by the Government Bill, i.e. without amendments. 2. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. 3. He instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee. 4. He shall instruct the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. During the discussion, we stated in the Economic Committee that the current labour code is complex, solves a number of necessary issues, and that it would benefit if the next government, the next relevant supervisory minister, had prepared a major simplification, a fundamental shortening of the Labour Code, which would have suspected of the modern economy. In this economic committee, the resolution number 360 of 8 February 2017 in which the Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic calls on the Government of the Czech Republic to simplify the Labour Code. So that's two resolutions on the relevant press. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Mr František Laudát, and I am opening a general debate to which 14 Members in general and 13 have so far been enrolled in a detailed debate. Mr Stanislav Grospič - who apologizes, I apologize, I apologize, so that his application is forfeit, and in that case Mrs Jana Pastuchová is speaking and Mr Pilný is preparing - who is also excused. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u8	Thank you. I was scared I didn't apply. It's from last time. However, I cannot agree so much with my colleague, through your, Mr President of the Committee on Social Policy, that all the amendments that have been discussed in the Committee on Social Policy are those that would improve the labour code. No way. And I'm sorry there wasn't enough of us to reject some of them. I believe that some will succeed in rejecting the vote at third reading. Allow me to comment on the amendment that I will read in a detailed debate. It is actually a proposal that is also very much commented on by employers. It's a bicycle storage at the workplace. This right of employees was enshrined in the previous Labour Code until 2006. Therefore, my amendment does not bring anything new and untested. After 2007, some employers continue to allow parking at the workplace, but some do not. I believe that bike ride to work is an all-social benefit and that everyone should have the right to do so. Today, bike transport is often comparable in time, or even faster than car or public transport. At the same time, it's much cheaper. We don't pay for gas, we don't pay for a ticket. We don't have to wait in the columns. I don't have to tell anyone about health benefits as such. It's a regular move. We come to work optimistic, tuned, and it can also be reflected in the productivity of work. It is the place of parking that can sometimes play a crucial role in choosing the mode of transport, and I think that everyone should have the option. This amendment could improve transport conditions. I think the benefits of bike transportation deserve it. And I, when I read this amendment, will be begging you in the third reading for his support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u9	Thank you, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. Mrs Jana Hnyková will also be prepared, which I will ask for a performance. And Mrs. Zuzana Kailová will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, before I move on to my amendments, I dare to respond to my previous speakers. I think that the amendments made to the Committee on Social Policy have been read in the interests of employees. And I think the legitimate demands of the employees are justified. And I just want to remind you, here in the Chamber of Deputies, I see colleagues, and I have heard their remarks when President Zavadil gave reasons for this as far as employees are concerned. I'm so sorry. We have accepted a number of things here for the benefit of employers, and I am sometimes sorry about the statements made by your colleagues, who, I must say, just ugly - you spit on employees. They do work for employers, and I think they deserve their rights to be defended here as well. So it's just at the beginning. I would like to introduce you to my amendments. If you lean towards them at the third reading and agree with them, I'd be very happy. In the first amendment, I try to prevent discrimination against workers, in Section 16 para. 2. I know that I have already read this amendment here under the Employment Act, but since it has not yet been discussed in the Senate, and we do not know in what form the amendment to the Employment Act will come back to us, I will nevertheless allow myself to read this amendment in the context of discrimination as well as in the Labour Code. I believe that the current legislation on the protection of workers against discrimination is insufficient. After all, it's not just my opinion. Thanks to this, the Czech Republic faces problems in fulfilling international obligations under the International Labour Organisation Convention No. 111 on discrimination under the control mechanism of the International Labour Organisation. By the proposed regulation, it returns to the law beyond the anti-discrimination law, which is currently referred to by the Labour Code as a single source of possible discriminatory reasons, other reasons for discrimination, especially family status, political party membership and trade union membership, as well as membership of the employers' organisation. The introduction of family status, social origin, possibly property and obligations to the family as discriminatory reasons will result in a direct extension of protection to situations where workers should be treated unevenly due to parenthood, belonging to the preferred family due to property status, origin in a particular social class, etc. There will also be a ban on unequal treatment with regard to the fact that workers are married, married, widowed, childless or wishing to have children. At the same time, I insert this section on discrimination in the same wording by means of the Labour Code into the Employment Act, in Section 4 para. 2. In the second amendment, I amend Section 24, which regulates the rules for collective bargaining. Thanks to the fact that the Constitutional Court abolished the use of the majority in negotiations with the employer in 2008, when more than one trade union organisation exists in the organisation, a vacuum was created in many companies and organisations where it is not possible to conclude a new collective agreement. In practice, there was a problem with the fact that the smallest trade union organisation operating in a given enterprise, together with another, often disproportionately larger organisation, is able to prevent the signing of a collective agreement with its dissenting opinion. The damage is all employees. That is, those who are associated with the other organization. Any small trade union organisation today has the opportunity to block collective bargaining to conclude a collective agreement with the employer and against the will of the vast majority of employees. If the employer finds a handful of his faithful, they will jointly establish their own organization, which then vetoes all efforts to conclude a new collective agreement. The amending proposal aims to strengthen the position of trade unions with the largest number of members during negotiations on a new collective agreement with the employer. At the same time, however, it complements the procedure which will allow the interests of smaller trade unions to be taken into account, as the Constitutional Court envisaged in its finding that the previous legislation was insufficient. The proposed amendment would apply to me when trade unions disagree on the collective agreement procedure. In such a case, the employer is entitled to enter into a collective agreement with a trade union organisation or several trade unions which have the largest number of members with the employer. Thanks to the new law of other trade unions to inform about the opening of collective negotiations and the discussion of the submitted and final proposal with the employer, it is guaranteed that the employer cannot circumvent other trade unions. [[17.30 hours]] The third amendment concerns § 55 para. 1. In the current adaptation of the Labour Code, § 55 is somewhat unfortunately addressed, in which circumstances are resolved, under which the employer can give immediate notice to the employee. One of the reasons for the immediate termination of an employment relationship with an employee is the final conviction of an employee for an intentional criminal offence with unconditional punishment. In practice, however, the employer addresses the question of employment relationship much before the acquisition of legal power takes place by the judgment, at the moment the employee learns about the crime. Therefore, I propose repealing this section of Section 55 of the Labour Code. The fourth amendment relates to Section 146 (b). (c) which affect the rules for the deduction of member contributions of members of the trade union organisation. According to the existing legal standard, one of the possible causes of wage reductions may be the reimbursement of member contributions of an employee who is a member of a trade union organisation if agreed in a collective agreement or on the basis of a written agreement between an employer and a trade union organisation and agrees with that of an employee who is a member of a trade union organisation. But employers often use this point to pressure trade unions during collective bargaining. I am convinced that this practice is contrary to good manners, and therefore, in order to protect workers, I propose that a written request be made by the trade union organisation of which the employee is a member and the approval of the employee. The fifth amendment concerns Sections 200 and 203. As there is a misunderstanding over the interpretation of Section 203 of the Labour Code, the House press 903, I come up with this amendment when it sets out a clear interpretation of the contested point. Section 203 refers to the fact that an employee has the right to leave for another task and is entitled to reimbursement of a salary or salary equal to the average earnings of a member of a trade union body under this law. There is a common dispute over the scale of this obstacle at work. I propose to lay down the minimum extent of this obstacle to work explicitly by law, at least 15 minutes per employee represented within four weeks. The sixth amendment is the amendment in Section 227, which concerns the professional development of employees. In 2012, there was a conceptual amendment to the Labour Code, during which the first sentence, which referred to the obligation to take care of the professional development of employees, was completely unwarranted. This fact is even more striking in the context of the subsequent provisions that remain in the law and which says that the employer is obliged to ensure the professional practice of graduates of schools and the deepening of qualifications. Although the proposed provision has the character of a declaration, it is very important for both employers and employees because it includes basic forms of professional development of employees and provides the required standard of development management and human resources for employers. It stresses that personnel knowledge, processes, methods and tools do not fulfil their function in themselves, but only in the context of other processes in the company and their comprehensive understanding. The seventh amendment concerns - I have it in several variants - § 109 para. The following points shall be inserted: (f) The labour code, when I propose - and this is very important to me, because it concerns health workers in hospitals and other establishments, concerns the remuneration of employees who are employed by the health care provider under the Health Services Act... [[The ministers sitting behind Mrs. Hnyk are having so much fun.]] I can scream even more, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u11	Madam, I will give you peace and quiet, and the Minister will go somewhere else to talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u12	Thank you. This means hospitals, hospitals, long-term hospitals, and other hospital hospitals. This amendment shall apply to all employees of the bed-care provider who have been remunerated by wage so far, irrespective of the work they do, with the exception of those providing spa, medical, rehabilitation services, with effect from 1. 1. 2018, and this is different from President Zavadil's amendment, which will also be presented here. The eighth amendment also concerns § 109 para. 3 where I am inserting points. (f) I extend the Labour Code and extend this amendment to employees who are employed in all medical bedding facilities, which means that this also applies to spa. Ladies and gentlemen, this is how I have introduced you to the content of all my amendments, and in a detailed debate, I will sign up for these proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u13	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. Mrs Kailová is duly excused, so it is Mr Vilímec's turn, but before him, with a point of fact, Mr Ivan Adamec and Mr Rais after Mr Vilímc's colleague. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I was here to respond to Mrs Hnyková through you. Please don't do this, what you did at the beginning of your speech. Maybe we all have a slightly different view of it. I think that Mr Zavadil said it here, which is fine, we are discussing an important standard here, which will de facto regulate our environment in which we live, the working environment, and if you feel that someone here is accusing employees, which I do not see, and if there has been any reaction, then perhaps an irreversible phrase, nothing else. But please don't say it. I've been here before at the beginning of this House, when a certain minister looked at us and yelled at us that all the thieves were stealing. I'm begging you who. Who says that, like he says, what he says? I think that every employer today simply appreciates their good employees. In the end, today is like saffron, we live at a time when employment is high and it is really not easy to get a good worker and all good employers respect their good employees very much. So let's not put it this way. We can have a political clash here on who sees the position of employer, who sees the status of employee, that's fine, but please forgive this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u15	Thank you for keeping time with Mr Ivan Adamc. Mrs Hnyková, also with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u16	Thank you for the floor. I was very happy to hear those words from you. And in the past, when I was talking about it, my colleague Zavadil and I always turned against it when it was against the employees. I merely said that in general, and I am very glad that these words were heard from your mouth. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u17	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková, also for respecting the time to make a point of fact. Now also a colleague of Mr Laudát with a factual remark. My colleague Vilímec is ready. I'm saying that may be the last point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am therefore colleague Hnyková, as she said, understood that she literally said: as we have done many for entrepreneurs here, and I would fundamentally oppose such a sentence in any context. Since 1989 or 1990, Czech entrepreneurs have never received the kind of blow between the eyes that this House has given through most government coalitions and some voices from somewhere else. What you've put on entrepreneurs who are the only ones who create fundamental values, which then serve to pay taxes, and that's what the rest of them live on. [[17.40 hours]] So please, I'd be very much inclined. I believe that the labour code is sufficient. I think it's outdated, but what Secretary Marksová Tominová brought here is simply a disaster, a lack of understanding of the modern nature of work, a modern economy. It's too bad my colleague Pilný isn't here, 'cause I think we'd really like her here. From what you wear, it doesn't belong in the modern world anymore. And then I joined the debate, of course, not only will I propose rejection at third reading, but also return to second reading, return to first reading, all that is possible, because this kind of gadget, and continue to burden and annoy labour law is useless, luxurious. And if we want to follow countries that have been for decades, or at least the last ten years on the trajectory of descent, such as. France, we're just going there. It's the union policies. They might as well be reading something about the world.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u19	Thank you for your time on the point of fact and we will continue with Mr Vilímec's speech, Mr Karel Rais will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u20	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, every time a legislative regulation is opened, an avalanche of debates and various proposals will be torn down because employers and trade unions are watching closely for it, it is a matter of the gallery in the case of trade unions. Any adjustments in the Labour Code, whether the government or the MPs, usually lead to unforeseen consequences. That is why I personally think that especially during the election period, because in a moment we have elections here, the proper ones, should interfere very carefully with such a standard. It's double this time. I don't see any acute need right now, and on some larger scale, to interfere with labour law. However, my concerns about the consequences of the new regulation are also growing as a result of the way it was presented in tripartite. President Zavadil claims there was no agreement. As critical as I had to comment on the government proposal, I felt it was a compromise between employers and employees. Unfortunately, it turned out that it wasn't. In general, the Left and Social Democrats, when I put it this way, have always been very close to the trade unions in opinion and in staff. They have always tried to make the trade union position strong and to push for changes that could bring their voters together in the trade unions. This time, however, the close cooperation with the trade unionists seems to have gotten a little out of hand, or at least gotten a little rift. I would like to remind you that the unions are now trying to promote their proposals in their favour through the Committee on Social Policy through the amendments tabled by the President without respecting the government proposal. And we can debate endlessly whether or not the compromise has been reached. I don't know how to explain it. If I am to explain it so that with their proposals, the unions will come directly to the House and thus circumvent the current trial processes. Is it random, or does it become a habit, a practice of habit? I don't know. I think that for the quality of the law, especially such as the amendment to the Labour Code, it is, in any case, bad practice. The submission of this press was indeed a government, so I understood it and I think it is also described in the explanatory report, presented as a compromise reached between employers and employees, as a compromise reached on tripartite. Unfortunately, not only from the information provided by the Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy, but also from the committee's discussions, it turned out that there is simply no compromise. The contradiction couldn't have been more obvious. While employers rather recommended not to intervene significantly in labour law at this time, and if there is any political will to discuss these changes in contrast to the submitted press, they agreed rather with changes consisting in limiting legal regulation. home office, i.e. adaptation of the proposed text of paragraph 317. On the contrary, union leaders, and I must mention this, have tried to use this standard for changes which are indeed of a fundamental nature and which employers also fundamentally reject. This must also be realized. And together with them, we rejected it as a right-wing opposition. I have a feeling it's a little bit before the election to create some kind of carrier to enforce these changes right in the House. At that second reading, many proposals were made to the Committee on Social Policy with serious implications which, in my view, cannot be made without any previous discussion and, in particular, consensus, the necessary consensus between the participants of the tripartite. Some of them have finally been promoted, and we know how - mostly one vote on the committee, against the real will of employers. It is no surprise that the approval majority therefore formed the voices of the Communists and Social Democrats. So be it. However, I find it really unacceptable for absolutely fundamental things in labour law to be approved in this way. Of course, everyone can have a point of view, that's legitimate, but in this way, pushing it through one vote, I find that unacceptable. Specifically, a legal extension of one week's leave, which has also been mentioned here, Mrs Hnyková mentioned, major interventions in collective bargaining in the area of the lowest level of guaranteed wages or the powers of trade unions to impose binding orders on employers to stop work in a situation of life or health of workers, are simply serious changes of an almost conceptual nature and, if they are to be seriously debated and seriously approved, there should be elementary agreement between employees' representatives and employers. It's always been the case in my opinion. The chairman of the Committee Zavadil was, of course, the chairman of the Czech Moravian Union, so he is a memorial. I'm not a memorial to the debates, but I've also seen it in the past parliamentary periods that most of the changes that have been approved have been made by some kind of elementary consensus. And I even think it wasn't just in past right-wing governments, it was in past left-wing governments. So I see no reason why this should change now, and if so, someone in the government coalition should explain it to the public. Some amendments were therefore actually adopted on the committee against the fundamental opposition of employers. It is interesting that e.g. The Economic Committee did not accept any amendment, which also struck me. I guess he just has some other perspective on it. And I assume that many of those controversial proposals that didn't go through eventually will still be read here, whether by the chairman of the committee or by anyone else. And I would like to warn here, on the one hand, not only about increasing the severance pay and disproportionate unilateral strengthening of the powers of the trade unions, but above all about the idea of introducing pay rates in force under the regulation of the government in hospitals, regardless of their form of ownership. I cannot imagine 28 years after November 1989, we will force private owners to pay according to government regulations in the form of salaries. It has already started with drivers in public transport, and such proposals, especially in the case of health care and hospitals, bed facilities, can mean very serious impacts for hospitals. And maybe in the opposite guard, if anyone thinks - because it will limit hospital owners, it will limit the regions as significant hospital owners essentially to providing remuneration on the basis of the labour market and supply and, as a result, it can really lead to the departure of many doctors. And that, given the lack of medical personnel, is very warning. I believe that such proposals - and then I will move on to my proposals that I have made - will not find such proposals here in the House in the end. And I believe that the revision will also be submitted to proposals adopted by the Committee on Social Policy by a majority of one vote for the disapproval of employers. Employers are right to fear significant interference with their powers, interventions that may mean and will entail additional costs on their part and will have unfortunate consequences on the labour market as well as on the lives of ordinary employees in the Czech Republic. [[17.50 hours]] As far as my three proposals are concerned, I will justify them, because now there is such a trend in a detailed debate, although it has not been in the past, only to refer to the House document. In the past, the detailed proposals were mostly justified, and now the trend is a little different. So I'm going to give a little reason for the suggestions that I would read in that detailed reading. One of these proposals is set out in House document 5896. It's one of those versions of home office editing. There are a lot of proposals, and now the Minister has mentioned about two proposals. There will probably be more of these proposals. As far as the home office is concerned, it is a fact that the work done by employees outside the employer's workplace will become an increasingly frequent phenomenon. However, if this work is allowed by the employer at the request of the employee, not for reasons on the part of the employer, it is a type of benefit. I do not consider the anchoring of any other legal claims of employees above the general provisions of the Labour Code to be meaningful in such cases. So I have already made a motion during the committee procedure, which is not so different from President Zavadil's proposal, which he also made on the committee. Let's see how many of these proposals there are and what proposals they're going to go through. Another proposal from the three of my proposals, which I will put forward, is the proposal which is set out in Houses of Document 5959 and is called. unilateral transfer, respectively. cancellation of one-sided transfer to another work on so-called. the employer's obligation to offer. I can at least see from the information I have that, in practice, the transfer does not cause any major problems. The employers merely requested clarification of the current adjustment in order to make it clear whose side the obstacle was, i.e. where the consequences of the inability to perform the work of the employee are borne by the employer and when the employee. It should be recalled that, in the vast majority of cases, the transfer is a reaction to the circumstances on the part of the staff member preventing the work to be done so far. The employer is obliged to respond to these circumstances and not allow employees to carry out their work. The proposed regulation, which promotes a government proposal, can cause employers quite considerable complications, most notably with regard to the complete deletion of the possibility of conversion in the deposition under Section 52 (b). (e) and (g) The Labour Code is a statement of incompetence or serious breach of the obligation of an employee or, in the case of the conduct of criminal proceedings against an employee on suspicion of a deliberate offence committed in the performance of the work or in direct connection with it, to the detriment of the employer's assets. In these cases, the employer will very often not be interested, and it is understandable to let such an employee do the work he has done so far. For example, if the accountant is suspected of working with the employer's finances, the responsible manager probably won't let her have any more funding and will not wait for the prosecution to end. So, in principle, the proposal repeals the provisions that are set out in connection with the transfer or cancellation of the transfer to another work that is set out in the bill. As far as the third one is concerned, I will not read the full justification, the amendment, so this concerns, in principle, the maintenance of work in situations where there are obstacles on the part of the employee. The proposal submitted by the government actually extends the circle of obstacles to the so-called. parental leave. I just want to say here that the inclusion of an employee in the original work and workplace after a long time, because of course there may be a period of several years, is very difficult and there is no reason to formally expand the scope of these obstacles. Especially at a time when it is repeatedly pointed out that in the Czech Republic the parenting is very long, and it is an effort to support women's earlier return to work, the proposed change seems completely counterproductive. The State should consider how to encourage women's involvement in work in the care of young children rather than artificially reserve a job for several years. So this proposal is set out in the Houses of Document 5960. Then I will sign up for these proposals in a detailed debate at second reading. I would really like to conclude by saying that if there is a few votes being pushed or one vote on matters of a serious nature, of a fundamental nature for the labour market, both for employees and for employers, we cannot get any good results. I believe the House realizes that we all are responsible for this. And we'll see how things turn out. I'm not making a motion to dismiss or return the petitioner. We'll see how the debate goes, see if it's even over in this parliamentary term. Madam Secretary, at least the expression I just found out doesn't count on it anymore. So let's see if we can even get to a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u21	I thank Mr Vilímc, but I would like to clarify whether that conclusion meant a procedural proposal. Not yet. Conditionally, if you give it to me. First, ladies and gentlemen, I shall read the apologies received by the Chamber of Deputies. Then the factual point is Mr Ivan Pilný, then with priority rights, the rapporteur. Mr René Číp apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, from 17.30 to the end of the day, Mr Pavel Šrámek and Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes from 18 a.m. to the end of the day. Now, Mr Ivan Pilný's factual remark and then the rapporteur's priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. A serious colleague and colleagues, there is a magical number, and that is how the economy rises relative to GDP. That's the number that depends on what we can do with the state budget. I completely disagree with this number, but even this number is the credit of entrepreneurs. And when we talk about sustainable employment and benefits for employees, we need to realise that the basis is a prosperous economy. The Economic Committee has already expressed its concern that a number of amendments are far beyond the agreement reached in tripartite. I think there is no point in examining and risking the various amendments, because obviously at this point, the benefits are far behind what damage we can cause to the economy. I don't want to keep you here for long, but basically the proposals that have so far been made in this debate have not yet been procedural, so I, as the future finance minister, really do not have a problem with the law going back to recasting or being rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u23	I thank Mr Pilný. Now one more point in fact by Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Members of the Government, colleagues, I would just like to respond briefly to what President Pilný has said. You know, I think we have an open market across the European Union and that we should, as promised 27 years ago, approach those advanced countries, or the European 15. Therefore, we should also approach in the labour field, benefits, protection, health and safety at work. We cannot only rely on non-calculation, but ideal statements by various associations and groups of employers. We also need to compare levels in individual states, although I am aware that our position within the economy is more or less subordinate and internal prices between mothers and daughters who work in our country are actually exploiting not only workers but also the Czech state. But we have to do something for that, not submit to the whole question and hide it by respecting that these and these benefits can no longer be pushed through. Although I am not at all debating what I am and what I am not in the amendments for. That will ultimately show the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u25	I thank Mr Opálek. I now have Mr Zavadil, Mr Marksová and Mr Sklenák in that order. Please, with priority rights, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u26	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Allow me a few responses to the previous speakers, but also a certain philosophical reflection. It sometimes sounds right here, and I'm sorry, and you know I'm open to any debate with anyone, and that the debate has always been conducted seriously, unless, in some way, it's exceeded some degree from the other side. When I hear these pejorative references to trade unions and unionists and their demands, I'm asked what all those entrepreneurs and employers were doing in 1989 when we had our necks set when we were doing a general strike that was forgotten, like nothing happened in 1989. And I think the general strike was the one that decided which direction the Czech Republic is going. That's something you forget. So I'd like it if we'd always be spoken to with great respect. I'm not saying with respect, we have to earn respect, but with respect. Second point. There's always talk about how businessmen and employers are the ones who move things forward. Without those employees, they wouldn't have been anything. Ježíšmarjá Christ, I suppose that from Bati, starting with how I have always respected him, even some of today's employers and entrepreneurs value the most human work, employees. There's nothing wrong with that. So don't put it in your mouth that it's mainly the employers, the board chairs, that these are the ones that increase the product of our national economy. They're mostly people. Just a quick note. She's not here, Jana Pastuchová. I do not consider it fair to say that there were not enough people on the committee to vote against this standard. I could have said that too, I don't use it because I think the committee consists of so many and so many people and it's up to them whether they come or not. It is not possible to defend and say in this way: there were not so many of us. Not to mention that we're still a coalition, and that if a coalition partner says so, then I don't know who I'm supposed to stick the coalition with on the committee. And once again, I understand other suggestions, other opinions, and so much for you on the Social Committee, you know that. I hate stupidity. So I do not think that a number of things that have been read, which have been voted by even one vote by the Social Committee, are things that should be harmful to employers. They're not. Let's have a serious conversation. I've already offered it in my opening words that I'm willing to talk about this in any dialogue, specifically about these things, because I think I do know them a little bit, tell me what I think, and you'll tell me what you think, and then we'll see if we can agree or not. I think that's a serious offer. And that's all I'm saying, I don't want to keep up, because we're running out of time. I'd like to see at least a second reading shift. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u27	Thank you, Mr Zavadil. Before the rights are preferred, I have two factual points, Mrs Černochová and Mr Sklenák. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I really take the words of my colleagueZavadil We want to talk about it, we want to talk about it. He gave us this offer to discuss, so for this reason, I'm taking 26 minutes to discuss the ODS club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u29	Okay, I understand. In that case, I'm declaring a break until 6:30. We will continue after paragraph 59, by the factual remark of Mr Roman Sklenák and then by the priority right of Minister Marksová. Colleague Sklenák also has priority rights and then is Mr Rais, Mr Černochová and others. Overall, we have ten people in the general debate and one point of fact. I'm declaring a break until 6:30.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-23-ps2013-057-05-007-022.u30	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. So we're going to go to the next point that's fixed at 6:30, and that's the point.
