ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u1	201. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016 /German press 996/ - first reading We started discussing this point on Thursday, January 12th. The general debate has not been opened. We can continue by asking that Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Hana Aulická Jírovcová take up the position of Foreign Affairs Minister Lubomír Zaorálek and rapporteur for the first reading of Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová. I ask the Minister if he wants to say a few more words before I open the debate. Mr. Secretary, are you interested? [[Off-Mike reaction.]] Before I open the debate. [[Off-Mike reaction.]] Your opening words were, the rapporteur's opening words were, too, but I am asking about the opening of today's negotiations. [[Off-Mike reaction.]] The debate has not started, the debate has not been opened because we have concluded negotiations after your and the rapporteur have spoken. So if you're interested - it's not so. In that case, I am opening a debate in which I have Mr René Číp's application. Before I give you my word, Mr Member, I will ask the House for peace, especially your colleagues from the Foreign Committee. If they want to discuss a strategic partnership agreement, they can enter into a debate, gentlemen colleagues in the left side of the House, or if you are discussing something else, please in the foyer. I'm serious. Thank you. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech, allow me a little weirdness. We are discussing this agreement completely illogically prematurely. We are discussing this Treaty between the European Union and Canada before it is discussed by the European Parliament. Why don't we wait and see what position the European Parliament will take on this Treaty? Are you afraid that this Treaty would not have to be approved in this term if the outcome of the European Parliament's negotiations were to be awaited? Is it at all in the interest of our citizens that this Treaty should be ratified by our Parliament? I will no longer speculate and move on to the substantive problems of this treaty. This Strategic Partnership Treaty is, say, a preparation for the CETA Treaty, which goes in the wrong direction and can be considered to be very controversial, since its creation and secret negotiations with representatives of large corporations and not of civil society can no longer be considered a standard procedure. The whole thing is all the more illogical that the CETA Treaty itself has a comprehensive title, and yet even in the European Parliament, all committees cannot make a comprehensive statement on this Treaty. I personally and the KSČM club here in the Chamber of Deputies will certainly demand the presence of ministerial ministers when discussing the specific chapters of this Treaty and its discussions in all relevant committees affected by this Treaty. Dear Minister, let me ask you a question. What would be important for you to approve this Strategic Partnership Agreement without any further approval of the press 1000, which is CETA itself? Wouldn't this strategic partnership agreement really lose its origin? I think that pretending that this is just a one-sided and self-contained contract, CETA is a completely different contract, is a rather questionable position. What this treaty actually offers us and what it does not offer us. It does not offer us protection of workers' and nature's rights and instead offers us popular international arbitrations, strengthening the power of multinational corporations and endangering workers' rights. The treaty also gives multinational companies the right to sue the government for the protection of people and the environment. The possibility of compensation for future lost profits in changing government policy remains in play, therefore, against the free will of the people expressed in the elections. The ICS arbitration system represents its own concept of law, whereby large companies can sue states, but States, trade unions or NGOs cannot sue these companies because of damage to the rights of employees, consumers or the environment. Moreover, this system is discriminatory because ICS can only be used by foreign companies. Similarly, the protection of the rights of workers and the environment remains only in general form and declarations in the CETA contract without the possibility of coercing them. That's a sharp contrast to investors' rights. It must also be taken into account that this Treaty has a far greater impact than the one I have already mentioned. For example, it is also an area of copyright. The text of a large part of the provisions relating to copyright and enforcement is almost identical to those already rejected by the European Parliament by the controversial ACTA agreement. CETA is now a kind of backup plan to clean the way of an even more controversial TTIP contract, because they are largely similar. This more familiar and also secretly planned EU-US Treaty on the transatlantic trade and investment partnership is already quite well known to the public and creates such strong controversy that its rapid approval is delayed, which is likely to contribute to the election of Donald Trump as President of the United States. In its principles, CETA is actually no different from the TTIP contract. Even in this case, this is a very large document that goes far beyond mere efforts to reduce customs duties and market barriers. CETA contains a number of hazards and problematic places thanks to a combination of three components, which are also criticized for TTIP. First, regulatory cooperation, second, irrefutable or very difficult to recant deregulation and privatisation, and third, the introduction of special arbitration courts for multinational companies. The combination of these three elements can lead to a threat to the health of consumers and workers' rights, as well as to disrupt any attempt at a positive solution to global climate change. The principle of regulatory cooperation is to create a supranational body that will assess all planned regulations at EU or national level, one crucial aspect - whether the proposed regulation is not an unnecessary obstacle to business. National states will thus face enormous pressure to take such a decision as it will issue, as it will be an internationally acceptable compromise or an internationally unacceptable regulation. National states will thus reduce and complicate the power to regulate according to the interests of their citizens. Unanswered so far, but all the more important is the so-called question. transitivity principal of the NAFTA contract, which is the North American free trade zone. Indeed, Canada is one of the participants in this Treaty, and it is therefore a question of whether the EU would also become part of this free-market zone, including Mexico, thanks to the CETA Treaty. The wage level there would thus be in direct competition with the European level. Experience has shown that this is not about wage increases in Mexico, but about pressure to reduce European wages. This would be exactly the opposite of what needs to be supported in the context of the ongoing efforts of trade unions to increase labour prices regularly in the Czech Republic. I therefore strongly recommend waiting for the outcome of the vote on this Treaty in the European Parliament, which I also propose in a procedural manner. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u3	Thank you, Mr René Číp. I ask who else to debate because I do not have a written application. The rapporteur is reporting to the debate as a Member, not a rapporteur. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll get my previous speaker to my colleague Číp right away. Allow me, then, before I speak in my speech, so I would once again put forward a procedural proposal. From his speech, I think it has been explained enough to really interrupt the discussion of this press and adjourn until the time of the vote in the European Parliament. I think that the position and decision of the European Parliament is really important when discussing this document, of course also following under the House press 1000. Both agreements, of course, the agreement under the House press 1000, the main one, CETA, have a considerable impact on the citizens of this country. And as supreme legislators, we really should be responsible. This means, once again, as I have already said, a procedural proposal to suspend and adjourn this hearing until it is voted in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u5	Thank you, Mrs Aulická. I'll read some more apologies to the president of the House. Between 11.30 and 13.00, Mrs Jana Lorenzová and until 11.30, for work reasons, Mr Milan Šarapatka. There has been a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote without debate. I'm gonna call my colleagues because I chased them out of the O.R. when they were yelling. [[Glee in the hall.]] I asked them, yes, I'm sorry for the word I shouldn't have used. I'll check you out and ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the procedural proposal to suspend the 996 press until the European Parliament's decision to adopt this Treaty in the 194 vote that I have just begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 194 from 107 Members present for 34, against 61. The motion was not accepted. Let's keep going, then. A colleague of Mr Plzák is reporting for the debate. The honourable Member wants to continue, so I am sorry, in that case I am in favour of Mr Plzák in the debate and continues Mrs Aulická in her discussion speech. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I must say, fellow Members, that you have not failed again. I am truly sorry for the way you have treated the citizens of this country. I think you may dare this from the title that the citizens of our Republic are not so informed and do not know what all this can mean for our Czech Republic and what it can mean for the citizens of this country. Perhaps you should explain first and ask them for their opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u7	I'll interrupt you, Madame. I will ask the House once again for peace. I will ask colleagues who have other discussions to conduct them in the foyer. The expected silence has occurred, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u8	Thank you. You can see how interested you really are. I must say and remind you once again of what this agreement is about. The Agreement provides for cooperation in the following areas: democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the principles of the rule of law, international peace and security, effective multilateralism, i.e. combating terrorism, cooperation in multilateral regional and international fora and organisations including the International Criminal Court, economic and sustainable development. [[The MP dropped his voice, there's still a lot of noise in the hall.]] Promoting free trade and increasing investment, cooperation in the field of taxation, promoting sustainable development, cooperation in the field of knowledge, research, innovation and communication technologies, promoting the diversity of cultural expressions, education, cooperation, cooperation in the fight against illicit drugs, cooperation in the field of law enforcement and the fight against organised crime and corruption, money laundering and terrorist financing, cybercrime, migration, asylum and border management, consular protection and protection of personal data. If these areas don't seem important to you, don't be mad at me, answer your constituents. I wouldn't vote for you anymore. Let me continue to say once again that the delay has not been accepted, but it is neither my invention nor my intention to make it difficult for you, colleagues and colleagues, to work, but as rapporteur for this press, I think that if the Chamber of Deputies does not want to wait until discussion on the European Parliament, we should, as legislators, proceed responsibly to discuss this agreement. I think that when I presented to you what areas this concerns, at least in that sense, you should be responsible. Therefore, I will once again present to you what committees I will propose to discuss this press. These are the Economic Committee, the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Budgets, the Committee on Constitutional Law, the Committee on Security, the Committee on European Affairs, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Social Policy, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, the Committee on Health, the Committee on the Environment, of course, the Foreign Committee as a guarantee and agricultural committee. I don't know how you're gonna really explain to people how you're gonna stand up responsible. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u9	Thank you, Mrs Hana Aulická. Now Mr Michal Kučera's factual comment and then Mr Plzák, who is duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u10	Thank you for the floor. I do not share the concerns of the previous speaker, Mrs Aulická, with the fact that we will have problems explaining something to our constituents. I understand she's worried about our voters, I even understand that she wouldn't give us a vote. I really can say that I don't want a communist vote, I don't think my colleagues want it, so they don't have to point it out any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Petr Kořenek's factual comment, which was put forward for the debate on the factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think exactly what the honourable Member said here shows that the material needs to be discussed primarily in the foreign committee and not interrupted. So I think that is why voters should appreciate that we have not interrupted the negotiations, that we are not waiting for the outcome of the European Parliament's vote and that we are acting as an independent body discussing materials with full responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u13	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. Now, my colleague Aulická, with a point of fact. My colleague Plzák is patient. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u14	I will respond through you to my previous speaker. That's exactly how it's understood and how you want to say it. What we're trying to say here is that this is a really important document. We should also know the European Parliament's position on this. And when the second time the Chamber of Deputies says that it does not want to wait, what is left for me to do but act responsibly as rapporteur and legislator and try to include it in as many committees as possible to discuss this responsibly? That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u15	Thank you. Now a colleague of Plzák with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to know the Minister's opinion on one thing. As we know, Canada is one of the signatories to the so-called. NAFTA trade agreements between Canada, the USA and Mexico. And one of the benefits that this treaty and CETA should have for our country and, by extension, for the European Union is that goods from the European Union and our Republic will be placed on the US market more easily. As we know, tomorrow the inaugurated President Trump was not hiding by wanting this so-called. NAFTA's agreement to somehow codify, redesign, and we don't know in what sense. And maybe we'll lose this benefit after it's stated. So I was wondering if it would really be better to wait and see how the NAFTA deal was going to turn out in the direction of the new President Trump, and then act. Because if we lose this benefit, and it's issued as one of the priority ones, then maybe this contract won't really be as advantageous as it's said. Thank you and I'll be happy for your opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u17	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Mr Stanislav Grospič's application now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u18	I, my fellow Members, Mr Vice-President, will not keep you long, I would only actually advocate that there should be no political cliché, but a substantive approach, because from the perspective - and I have to report a certain conflict of interest here, I must say that the trade unions and trade unions that I place in one person have a big problem and concern that this is the very treaty that will narrow down the space that is now provided to employees, virtually. trade unions in relation to employers, the possibility of negotiating a number of contractual matters, and that this will significantly affect collective bargaining in the future. So from this point of view, I would advocate that this contract, unless it is rejected, be properly discussed, if possible with all the emphasis and emphasis on this very moment, that it can significantly aggravate the position of workers in the labour market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u19	I thank Mr Stanislav Grospič. I'm asking who's next for the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Minister, your final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u20	Thank you. I'll try to respond. First of all, I would like to respond to what is still happening here, that we should wait for the European Parliament to discuss. This is certainly a legitimate requirement, but I understood that this is a sovereign assessment of this agreement by the Czech Parliament, and it seemed to me that our role was to assess it from the point of view of our state and our interests. And they don't have to be the same. I don't know, in the case of e.g. When the European Parliament dealt with the issue of migration, you know that it supported in a rather massive way the introduction of mandatory quotas, which should also be respected by countries such as the Czech Republic and others. And I have not noticed that you would simply appear in this Parliament and say: Until Parliament tells us what to do, we will not comment on this. At that time, no one simply said that our position should wait for the European Parliament to comment on this. I warn you that those interests may simply not be the same, and voting in the European Parliament and its conclusions are not something that must be binding on us. I assumed we wanted to assess this from our point of view and from our interests. So all of a sudden, the care that we need to know the European Parliament's position does not seem entirely consistent to me. On the other hand, to be completely factual, I can imagine that some of these attitudes might interest us, because if somewhere in this area of arbitration there is a need for a large participant, I can tell you that I have no doubt that the European Union will consider this, and it is a question of the European Court of Justice, if it is confirmed, it is up to them to do so. I think that's the duty they're supposed to do if there's such a suspicion, and I think this is going to be examined. And if that's the case, that's obviously something that's going to sign the situation accordingly. But what I wanted to do was to assess it from the point of view of our interests, and I did not have the impression that we had to wait for this assessment by the European Parliament. They're really different. And so it was in the past that this House disagreed quite overwhelmingly with what the European Parliament agreed, or even with the position it took very strongly. We didn't agree to it. And this supremacy, and this self-assessment, I hope we have the right, and I believe that no one here is questioning that. I think the treaty is, of course, a good one. This is where the CETA, which is not here today, is not presented, so here we are only dealing with the strategic partnership. I admit there's a connection between these two contracts, even if it's free. When I first said they were different contracts, I meant it formally. Technically, it's just two lyrics. That there's an open connection, I just don't deny it. But in general, I think that for the Czech Republic this European Union agreement with Canada is a very advantageous thing, because it makes it essential. She allows far easier access of Czech goods to Canada. I can guarantee you that here. It is simply a much more open space for Czech goods. This is just a legal platform that, if an entrepreneur in Canada makes use of it, and if we use it, if it's accepted, it'll be much easier for us. Here, long-term sustainability and convenience of this matter were questioned for the Czech Republic. Forgive me, I have long supported the Czech Republic's trade and development of economic relations with developed countries, with advanced demanding markets, because the fact that we can sell sophisticated products there is a thing that has a huge impact on the Czech Republic. If we can sell these things in countries such as Israel, Canada, but also advanced European states, Germany, Sweden, Holland, etc., the result is that if we sell them at good prices, we can raise wages. It is the successful sale of sophisticated goods on markets such as Canada that allows us to increase wages in the Czech Republic, because these are the things that we sell at a good price, and they are high-value products, so I think it is the most economically advantageous thing we can do today. And I am very pleased that the trade with these countries, which I have listed here, is growing. And if this agreement allows easier access of Czech goods and products to the Canadian market, this seems to me to be a very beneficial thing for the Czech Republic. That is why I am putting these agreements here, and we are going to submit a CETA agreement, and this strategic partnership agreement, because I believe that this is the right strategy for the Czech Republic, which, if it succeeds and works, as it does so far, will simply lead to an increase in the standard of living in the Czech Republic, which seems to me from the perspective of the other possible crises that may come, a greater level of consumption compared to a very high export, as a thing that will protect us from the effects of future crises. So I repeat, I believe that opening trade with Canada is an interest of the Czech Republic. It's not like anybody can put it that way but us, because nobody's gonna say that for us. Nor will the European Parliament advise us on this. That is why I thought that there was no need to wait here for the European Parliament's position and that we were able to assess it ourselves, because I was convinced that this was beneficial for us. And the point is whether Parliament will support it or not. If you have any idea that we should have a different strategy or that we should go the other way. I've been convinced of this for a long time, I'm doing this policy not just for Canada. There are a number of countries where I am pleased that trade with them is increasing, because these are challenging markets that actually raise our entrepreneurs and the economy to create and produce things sophisticated, with a high degree of added value, and that is what I would like to see working in this country. So that's my basic defense of why I want another area of relations with Canada to open up, and why I support this treaty. And you have to decide whether or not you agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u21	The rapporteur's final words. And I'm registering with the priority right of Mr. Acting President of the club. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to get off, but let me say a few more words. Unfortunately, the Minister here did not answer the question of my colleague Číp, who asked what it would mean if we only approved this agreement under House press 996 and the treaty under House press 1000 was not approved, i.e. so-called CETA, what would this mean for the Czech Republic. Second thing. I would like to say that we know that Canada has already paid for the NAFTA contract, when Caterpillar first moved from Canada to the US and later to Mexico. And we all know what it meant to the company and the employees. And three. Do you realize, for example, that if the Czech Republic increases the minimum wage and the multinational company sues it for increasing costs and loses the Czech Republic? So what are we here for? And we really want to support that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u23	Thank you. Now I can choose between the Prime Minister's priority right...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u24	I forgot to answer one important question that came up here. Here's a question for NAFTA. Because perhaps in connection with the fact that President Trump's new incoming promises that the entire NAFTA should be transformed in some way, or that he would like to reopen the treaty and modify it to make it more advantageous for the United States of America. So I'm going to try to answer the question as best I can, what does it mean for this contract, or the upcoming contract, that we're talking more about CETA than this contract we're discussing. However, I will answer that because I said that there is a free link between the Strategic Partnership Treaty and the trade agreement with Canada. If we create such types of contracts, we only create a legal framework. A platform that entrepreneurs can use. If the businessman in Canada or those companies are going to use this European agreement, let's say the CETA agreement we're not talking about right now, or if they're going to use NAFTA, that's actually up to them. That's their decision. If the NAFTA is better, they'll be using NAFTA, they won't be using CETA. So it's something that's actually going to be related to how the platform is going to be business-friendly and attractive to them. If President Trump in any way is going to modify the NAFTA contract, it's pretty hard to figure out what that means right now. If the amendment means that the NAFTA Treaty will need less for Canada, less interesting for Canadian entrepreneurs, then it can mean even more open space for European goods. But at this point, I really don't know how this is going to happen. In what way, whether NAFTA will be open, what the adjustments will be, how it will turn out that Canadian entrepreneurs will see this legal platform as advantageous or not. So it's hard to answer that, and I can't tell you how long such a process of reopening a NAFTA contract can be. I wouldn't want to wait for it, because it's not an easy thing, something completely or atypical. So it could be a long thing. That's why I think it's hard to predict here if this will even work out, if the US Congress accepts this idea of the new President of the United States. What these modifications will be and if this eventually leads to the fact that the NAFTA will be less attractive and that much more space for European goods will be created. That's probably the kind of reasoning that you can afford here, but whose end or outcome is hard to estimate. But I think from what I'm saying, it's good not to wait, but rather to take steps that create room for business. So it seems to me that even with the announced or possible NAFTA changes, it still pays us to create the best legal framework for the exchange of goods between Canada and the United States, because it can be beneficial for us if we succeed. It would definitely be beneficial for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u25	I brát that as a reopening of the debate, a speech by the minister after his final word. So I'm registering the priority rights of my colleague, Mr. Lank, whom I've announced. Mr Ivan Gabal has a point of fact before him, and the rapporteur would then be after Mr Lanka. Otherwise, I could not give my colleague Gabal the floor if I had not reported the Minister's speech as reopening the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u26	Thank you for your apology to my colleague Lanka, through you. First of all, I would like to support and highlight what Minister Zaorálek has said here, because, in the case of modifications to NAFTA contracts, a good contract with Canada for Canada and for Europe is the opening of an alternative business trip to the whole area. First of all. Secondly, it should be stressed that the Czech Republic itself could never negotiate such a contract with Canada. So I consider the rapporteur's tendency to interpret the contract almost as a termination of the trade war between Czech companies and Canadian companies to be completely inadequate. On the other hand, it is important to note that some aspects of this Treaty relate to phenomena which are entirely within the competence of the Czech Republic as a member country and not the competence of the European Union. This means that the pre-negotiation before the European Parliament has its own great logic, and the rapporteur should know the division of competences between the Member State and the European Union. And the last one. I have noted, particularly in the context of migration and border control, how blunt and incompetent the European Union has been, although it has done a huge amount of work in the last year. Okay, so here we have the opportunity to demonstrate to the European Parliament what we can do in this area. This means that the setting seems very good to me, and all we need to do is do a job and not interpret it in a way that the trade agreement between the Union and Canada is something like just before the transatlantic war broke out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, colleague Lank. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u28	Thank you for the floor, I'll be very brief. You know, these things can be done either quickly or well. And in light of the arguments that have been made here, I'm not quite sure there are any facts. And I'd hate to have any part of it that we've approved something that maybe we shouldn't have done. So, if you don't mind, I'd like to ask for a 15-minute break at our MP's meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u29	Mr President, may I ask for a shorter time - within 12 hours? Because for 12 hours, we have... [[Ambassador Lank agrees.]] So thank you, because I would find myself in a procedural emergency, how to make it happen at 12 o'clock to start another point. So thank you for your helpfulness and I am interrupting negotiations within 12 hours when we will be discussing the government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented to agree to the ratification of the Paris Agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-003-201.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, it is 12 o'clock and we will continue with the next item on our agenda. It's...
