ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u1	156. The proposal of Members of Vít Kaňkovský, Jan Bartošek and Jaroslav Zavadil to issue a law amending Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities and on the amendment of related laws, as amended /German press 935/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as House Press 935/1. I now ask that the motion tabled be presented by the representatives of the appellants, Mr Vít Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u2	Good evening, Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to introduce to you the draft amendment to Act No. 329/2011 Coll., on the provision of benefits to people with disabilities, which we prepared after a rather long discussion and with close cooperation with the National Council of Persons with Disabilities. I present the proposal together with the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Bartošek and Chairman of the Committee on Social Policy, Jaroslav Zavadil. Before I reach the main objectives of the amendment, let me sum up the development that has led to the current legislative state, which, in many respects, is unfavourable for disabled people. Let me just remind you that almost 1,100,000 people with disabilities currently live in the Czech Republic, resulting from the statistical inquiry of the Czech Statistical Office and the Institute of Health Information and Statistics from 2013. Of this number, there are about 300,000 people with severe musculoskeletal defects, 300,000 hearing impaired, of whom 15,000 are completely deaf. In addition, there are 300,000 mentally disabled, 60,000 visually impaired, of which 17,000 are almost or completely blind, and 1,500 suffer from the most serious sensory impairment, i.e. deaf-blind persons. Other types of disability do not fall within the scope of the law, so I do not mention them here. The above list shows that the law in some way affects more than 900 thousand disabled people, some of whom can benefit from both the mobility contribution and the contribution to compensatory aids, some only isolated from one of these types of contributions. A significant reduction in the ability of disabled people to benefit from compensatory aids and the mobility contribution occurred between 2010 and 2012 as a result of extensive legislative changes caused by the then need to radically reduce state budget expenditure during the economic crisis. As part of these changes, several interventions were made to the previous concept. It was not only about the amendment of the law, but there were also significant changes to sub-law standards. In particular, the range of aids for which a contribution could be granted was substantially narrowed, among the disabled from 16 to 9, in the case of hearing impaired from 18 to 9, i.e. in half, and in the case of persons with visual impairment from 20 to 17 items. The deterioration was also due to a change in the indications for the provision of contributions, which unfortunately affected particularly those with severe physical disabilities. At this point, the majority are bound only to severe defects in the carrier or locomotive system, while in the past the range of beneficiaries was significantly wider. Furthermore, during the aforementioned legislative changes, the possibility of reimbursement of allowances for disabled people was abolished for the necessary aids, which are covered by health insurance, but only partially. The contribution for disabled people towards mobility was also significantly changed between 2010 and 2012. The contribution to the operation of the motor vehicle has been abolished and replaced by a contribution to mobility, which, however, provides the disabled with significantly lower amounts per month, in a situation where fuel prices have increased by a third. There have also been other restrictive interventions towards the possibility of drawing on the contribution to compensatory aids. This has a very unpleasant impact on wheelchair users who need special modifications to a passenger car, which are very expensive. [[17.40 hours]] I understand that, at a time of economic crisis, it was necessary to look for savings in the state budget. Sadly, however, this investigation has also affected the disabled, with whom life is not spoiled in many respects. Yes, we can argue that restrictions have also affected other vulnerable groups of residents, but I dare say that none of the others have been so radically affected. It wasn't a small sum. After legislative changes in these years, expenditure on compensation aids was reduced by one billion crowns a year. But even sadder is the fact that we have not yet been able to show the disabled at a time when the Czech economy is going well that we care about making their lives as good as possible within their disability, that we want them to be able to integrate as much as possible into society, whether it concerns the possibility of employment or participation in public and social life. It is for these reasons that I would like to address you with a request for support from us to the amendment of the law, whose ambition is to improve the situation of the disabled at present. The proposed changes affect these areas. One. We propose to change the mobility allowance for the most severe disability, which are holders of ZTP/P licences, by CZK 200 a month, i.e. from the current 400 to 600 crowns. I would just like to remind you that, even with this change, we will not be able to get to the amount to which they were entitled before legislative changes between 2010 and 2012. Two. We propose extending the disability circuit covered by the legislation on the provision of benefits to people with disabilities, three groups of diseases that are still missing in the list, while those who suffer from them are equally handicapped in terms of mobility as persons with severe musculoskeletal disorders. Specifically, these are persons with severe obliteration, i.e. severe narrowing of the lower limb vessels, significant trophic changes and significant functional limitations on mobility. They are also people with severe defects and heart disease, proven by chronic circulatory insufficiency. The last group are persons with objectively proven respiratory insufficiency of the heavy stage. Three. The next range of changes is rather technical and concerns the modification of the currently inaccurate specification of the term "rampa" and "storey platform." Four. We propose to amend § 9 para. 14, where the word "use" is replaced by the word "useability with regard to health." The emphasis here is placed on taking a consistent view of the individual state of health and use that a particular disabled person needs when selecting a specific compensation aid. Five. We propose a change in the financial limit below which the income of the applicant and the persons assessed together is tested for the grant of the contribution. In practice, paradoxical situations often occur that a disabled person who works is not entitled to a contribution to a compensation aid whose price is below the currently valid limit of CZK 24,000 and its income and income of persons together assessed exceeds the legal limit. Here it should be recalled that some types of disability are very common. These are mainly patients with visual and hearing impairment, where most of the necessary aids are now below the applicable limit of CZK 24,000, and if these disabilities perform employment, they fall into a group of people who fail to reach the allowance. On the contrary, with the same disability of the disabled, who do not work, they will receive a contribution to the aid. There is no need to stress how demotive the situation is for these disabled workers. If we are interested in getting as many handicapped as possible involved in working life, then we should eliminate this clearly discriminatory condition. And as a doctor, I can't forgive myself for the remark. In the future, we should clarify what type of solidarity system we want to apply further to the disabled in our country. My view is that we should treat the disabled with regard to the contribution to the compensation aid in the same way as we do in the provision of health care. I mean, emergency health care. If we evaluate the need for a compensatory aid for a specifically disabled person, which we are able to objectively assess, then the idea and practice of assessing income and, in some cases, property conditions is irrelevant in my opinion. Because I can't imagine a situation when, as an orthopedist and a traumatologist, it happens that they bring me into the service of a patient with a broken neck, which happens very often, in which medical terms it is the right solution to implant an artificial joint, that before I perform an operation, I would first check the patient's income and property ratios. You might argue that in some states it is. But not in the Czech Republic. I therefore consider it logical for us to proceed similarly with the contribution to the compensatory aids. In addition, it should be noted here that the contribution to compensation aid is subject to the compulsory 10% participation of a disabled person, who is not disturbed by our proposal either. Six. The further proposed adjustment concerns the removal of the requirement to demonstrate the applicant's overall social and property situation for the contribution to the special aid and the change in the assessment of the income situation only for the applicant, not for the persons jointly considered, which we consider logical as a situation where the disabled person agrees to the payment of 10 per cent of the contribution to the price of the aid. The proposal also contains an amendment to the provisions of § 10 para. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 100000000. This effort is conducted in particular by the current differentiated practice of the Labour Office in assessing this condition across the Czech Republic. Seven. The last proposed amendment is a change in the grant of a contribution to the acquisition of a motor vehicle. Until legislative changes between 2010 and 2012, the disabled had the opportunity to apply for a contribution to the operation of the motor vehicle once every five years. At present, this possibility is at double the threshold, i.e. once every ten years. Due to the currently valid amount of contributions and income opportunities of most applicants, most disabled people get a used car. From this point of view, at the same time, the ten-year limit is unhappy for the reclaiming request, because at the end of the lifetime of the acquired car, the disabled person is burdened with the large financial costs of repairing and maintaining the technical condition of the vehicle. For this reason, we propose a compromisely limit of seven years for the possibility of reclaiming the purchase of a passenger car and changing the limit of the grant, which is currently at the maximum limit of CZK 200,000. We are now proposing that this contribution be fixed at CZK 200,000 for eligible applications, but that is, of course, assuming that the price of the vehicle is CZK 220,000 and above, with the fact that the required 10% participation, i.e. CZK 20,000, remains in force. The financial impact of all proposed changes in the proposed amendment amounts to CZK 538 million per year. The largest item is the increase in the mobility allowance, which is 240 million per year. As one of the petitioners, I would like to mention the Government's position, which expressed a neutral position at its meeting on 11 October 2016, with the comments contained in House Press No 935/1. On the basis of this opinion, we joined the representatives of the National Council of Persons with Disabilities on intensive negotiations with the MPSV in order to reach a solution to the points at issue. At this point, I can say that, in most contradictions, we have reached a solution that both sides accept and which we will present in the form of an amendment to the negotiations of the guarantee committee to which it is proposed, and I hope that it will also be confirmed, the Committee on Social Policy. For the MPSV, at the moment, an unacceptable extension of the circle of applicants for the three groups of serious disability mentioned by me is unacceptable. If I am well aware of complex negotiations on this issue, then the MPSV perceives the need for these disabled people to help, but, given the link to health legislation and the activities of the medical assessment service and the employment office, it is difficult to resolve this requirement within the framework of this amendment. While I do not like to see this argument as a petitioner, and I do not want to anticipate the committee's negotiations, we are prepared to withdraw from this proposed change. However, I believe that the MPSV will return to it as soon as possible in cooperation with the Ministry of Health. [[17.50 hours]] Finally, I would like to say that, given the fact that the law deals with the issue of the disabled, to which all parliamentary parties report, I would like to believe that we are going to discuss the parameters of the proposed amendment intensively and, most importantly, to try to cultivate it when it comes to committee meetings. As the petitioner, I want to say that we are ready for cooperation across the House, which will lead to a law that will improve the conditions of their lives for the disabled. To this end, I would like to politely ask you for the release of our proposal into the next legislative process, and I am calling for a 20-day reduction in the time limit for committee discussions in detail. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u3	I thank the representatives of the appellants, and now I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Jana Hnyková. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had prepared a very detailed report, but if I had read it to you here, I would have copied the petitioner, and I think we should shorten this time and give space to the debaters. I just want to confirm that all the information submitted by the petitioner here is recorded in the law, and I think, and as rapporteur, I also support a reduction of 20 days. So at this point, I guess it's all for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am now opening a general debate in which I register four applications. Mrs Jana Hnyková was the first to come forward. So you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on the amendment to Act No. 329/2011 Coll., which concerns the provision of benefits to disabled persons, as amended, House press 935. In my contribution, I would like to focus on the life of the disabled. We declare and report on a number of international documents, create national plans, issue reports on the situation of the disabled. However, we ask the really disabled, what are their problems, what are they worried about, how could we, as Members, help them by changing legislation? Maybe some of us hear things sometimes, but are we really doing enough for these people? Our general objective should be to improve the environment, the availability of care and services and, above all, the integration of disabled people into society, the education system, the removal of barriers in the public space, the involvement of disabled people in the work process and to enable them to be implemented. Not to mention family life. Engaging in cultural and social life. For us healthy citizens, very common issues that we often do not even think about. Why, too? It's so obvious. Here I must say that we can become disabled at any time. Just a moment, and we're stuck in a wheelchair. How many of these cases do we know? How many lives are affected by this. Nevertheless, I hope to say that the situation has changed. The attitude has improved, but I ask again whether we have done enough, whether we should do much more for the disabled, and at this point I must add the elderly too. This amendment proves that there is still something to improve in behalf of these people. And I would like to interpret the opinion of our MP that we agree with the proposed amendment and support it. Last year I defended my amendment to the care allowance, which followed the seminar on this issue, where we heard a lot of hardships for people with disabilities. How they had to appeal for a care allowance after the administrative hearing to the court. We were discussing an increase in the care allowance by 10% after years when it was not validated. It also improved the lives of disabled people. Sometimes it seems to me that these people have to force changes directly. The government is not developing enough of its own initiative to do so. After reading the reasons why the government took a neutral position, the first point raised me from the chair. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs prepares an analysis of the effectiveness of the Act on the provision of benefits to persons with disabilities. We heard that two years ago on our subcommittee for non-insurable dosage systems, disabled seniors and socially endangered groups. And what happened until today? Nothing! There had to be a parliamentary motion. End of závěr. I don't want to moralize anyone, but I remembered Mr. Prime Minister's health at Hlávk's college on November 17th, when he said that our country had undergone a transformation and that some groups had taken it away. I want to tell you that the weakest and the most vulnerable in this country have taken it away in the first place. Among them, it is also a group of disabled and elderly and those who take care of them. In the Czech Republic there are a number of foundations, organizations that seek sponsorship donations for people with disabilities. We march to collect money for their lives. Should we not, together, focus on improving the life of disabled people? The one who worries them, and how would we want them to live? Politics should be done from the bottom, not from the top and just order. This is unacceptable. I would ask you, colleagues and colleagues, perhaps even some of you, to advance this amendment to second reading and thus facilitate the life of the disabled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u7	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Vilímec will be next and Mrs Nohavová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u8	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I do not want to evaluate in detail, I think it will be done by the committee whether all the amendments proposed in the Act on granting benefits to persons with disabilities are appropriate and are essentially appropriate. In any case, the proposal is conducted by trying to convert some social benefits to automatic benefits to those with disabilities. There's quite a lot of changes. koneckonců all, we have heard a detailed list of the petitioner or the representative of the petitioners, and the government itself states that this proposal completely changes the working method of determining, for example, the amount of the contribution to special aids. I admit that some changes are sympathetic to me, I do not want to argue about them, yet I would expect them, because the changes are quite more pronounced, it is not a change in one paragraph or one paragraph that the government as a whole comes up with a proposal - while there is no Minister of Labour and Social Affairs at the hearing. That, too, I think, is worth noting. I am used to it, or everyone, that we are seeing more and more Parliamentary proposals on the part of not only the opposition as we approach the end of the parliamentary term, but also the coalition MEPs. Some of these proposals do not have the support of the whole coalition, or at least the coalition did not discuss them. Of course, every Member, every Member's club's right is to put forward parliamentary proposals and amendments, but often in cases where there is a major change, I would expect the government as a whole to present a proposal. [[18.00 hours]] Because some of these proposals, I don't mean this one right now, although 500 million is also half a billion, have relatively significant fiscal implications. I fear that, perhaps for the memorials, it will refresh them - to repeat the situation of the first half of 2006, when such social activity or legislative creativity in this area has burdened the expenditure of the state budget by more than 70 billion. Yes, today we are in a favorable phase of the economic cycle. We've reached a surplus of management. That'll make it more tempting for such activity. I note that I am not referring to this law, but the laws, the various amendments, are more and we are mostly aware that the coalition does not know or have not acted on this. I must also pause on the fact that the Government has adopted a neutral position on this proposal, but if you read the text of that opinion, you will find that it has quite a lot of reservations about this press. That's interesting, too. The government points out that he mentioned here that, for example, the extension of the circle of persons entitled to a special aid cannot be estimated by the proposed changes or the financial effects of the changes, and so on. On the contrary, the designers claim otherwise. I admit, when I read the various changes and financial implications, somewhere it seems to me that the financial effects are a little undervalued, but so be it. In the case of a contribution to the purchase of a motor vehicle, we will actually find a situation that will be provided to all applicants of 200 thousand. Crowns. The authors don't even deny it. I'm not criticizing it. I like many of these things. Yet this proposal also shows something about the coalition's functioning. It is a classic proposal that should be submitted by the government or by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I'm sure we'll discuss this in committee. Our club's got a lot of stuff going on, so it's not gonna file a motion for work, rework, or rejection. Still, there's a lot of changes. I don't know if it's completely reasonable, maybe it's working out, maybe it's reasonable to shorten the deadline from 60 to 40 days. There are a lot of changes, and I'm sure I'll be interested in the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs on these changes. Moreover, I would like to say that I am quite interested in whether or not the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has completed an analysis of the effectiveness of the existing law or the payment of contributions under the existing law. So I rather limited myself to some general remarks on this proposal. I know that the proposal is very honest in cooperation with the National Council of Persons affected, but I kind of miss the government there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next up, Mrs Nohavová, Mr Marek Černoch will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u10	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the reason for the presentation of the Act on granting benefits to disabled persons is to eliminate the frightening measures of the reform of Ex-minister Drábek. As has already been said, this is a re- distinction of contributions to ZTP and ZTP/P, depending on the severity of the disability of disabled citizens who are not allowed to use ordinary public transport. Furthermore, the proposal now extends the disability by three severe diagnoses, where the system has not yet granted these people the right to grant a contribution to special aids. Another change is the reduction of the maximum limit at which the contribution to the purchase of the special aid arises, namely from the current 24,000. 8,000. The terminology is further refined, the requirement to demonstrate the applicant's overall social and property situation is removed, only the applicant's income situation is assessed for a contribution to the special aid and not to the persons assessed. It also alleviates the negative effects associated with extending the time limit for the acquisition of the car, where they will be able to ask for a new contribution after seven years instead of the current ten. Last but not least, it removes the disunity of the interpretation of what is considered to be the maximum amount of the contribution to the special aid, where only the amount paid by the Labour Office and not the funds paid by the applicant itself is determined. The legislative changes proposed by the House's draft press 935, are not contrary to the KSČM electoral programme, and therefore, as many times in the past, it is expected to support our club automatically. I understand that every electoral body has long-standing relationships with representatives of umbrella organisations such as the National Council of Disabilities in this case. Nevertheless, I believe that a wider representation of the petitioners, representatives of political clubs, i.e. more than two, would eliminate possible debatable points and, on the outside, present a cross-cutting agreement over the urgency of the adjustment, i.e. without amendments that can be understood as unnecessary delays. But I understand that each individual initiative is expected, just as the automatic support of the KSČM is expected. The proposed law is really for the most necessary and at risk. However, I must draw attention to the shortcomings of the proposal, which, if the petitioners had also dealt with representatives of the KSČM, could have already been taken into account in the proposal. This is particularly the case if the adjustment should make sense, it will be necessary to amend the implementing regulation and assign a specific specific aid to the new indications. Furthermore, the inclusion of three new diagnoses directly into the law appears to be inadequate and systemically incorrect. There are a number of other disabilities that could be compensated for at least partly by some aids, and even these disabilities would deserve at least some support. From my point of view, I see a misdiagnosis, and it belongs directly to the law. In my view, it should be mentioned in the law that the diagnosis and the relevant aids are laid down by the Ministry of Health or by the Ministry of Health. Only experts, not politicians, should decide what diagnosis should be included and what aids are appropriate. Another issue is the assessment of the income situation only of the applicant for a special aid and not of the persons jointly assessed. However, no one has changed this assessment scheme so far, so we must respect the current rules. For other benefits that natural persons receive from the State, they shall always be considered together with others in the common household. Healthily disabled are at risk from a group, that's a fact. But there are other endangered groups. And how do we explain this to families with young children, single mothers or seniors? Are you aware that you are creating a special group that will be in a non-standard mode when assessing the income situation? We don't have a problem increasing the dosage... how we basically want to compare for all groups. I recommend that the proposal, as it is written and submitted, be sent to the committee for further reading, and I believe that my comments will be dealt with responsibly in the Social Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u11	Thank you, Madame. Mr. Marek Černoch will be next. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u12	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to ask you to support this bill. I will speak from my own experience, from the experience of my own daughter, who was born with a birth defect and who had to fight with the help of the state so that she could live. Today, she is a young lady who I think has won everything with her own strength, as women can, with their inner strength. But there are a lot of people who have these problems who haven't had the happiness of being born healthy, and I think they deserve help, and the greatest possible help from the state. They'd like to work, they can't work, and I think they're standing at this point - or not at this point, but the state should give these people as much support as possible and as much help as possible. Benefits are paid to people who have made it a business that burdens the social system of the state, who do not need the money, and, on the contrary, people who need money or help or technical assistance often get into situations that are very unpleasant and degrading to them. That is why I think that this bill has a great reason, and the moment that this situation improves, these people will be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Pecková will be next. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u14	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm usually on the other side of the applicants' table. As a doctor, I often process such requests. I also propose very often for my patients, who have mostly mobility restrictions, or for example in disease and neurological disability, I know how very expensive it is to adapt those aids, which, on the other hand, will help them to get back into the work process as well as in social and family life. I am very pleased that, in fact, the current economic-economic situation of our country allows certain changes to be made. Those changes are proposed by the law in large quantities and the TOP 09 is not prevented from discussing these changes in second reading. However, we think that shortening the time to discuss it is not entirely happy given how many changes there are. I'm not going to repeat them again. For example, I would like to think about the frequency with which adjustments can be repeatedly requested, because some patients have a diagnosis that has been stabilized for many years and there is no need to interfere too much with these compensatory aids. Other diagnoses are very dynamic and, on the contrary, the original settings will last for quite a short time. This needs to be assessed on a case-by-case basis. J I think we can talk about all this in committees and at the next reading. So, once again, the TOP 09 Members' club supports the displacement of this proposal to second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u15	Thank you, too, Madame. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. The plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u16	Good evening again. Just a few short notes on the performances. I would like to thank all the speakers who have commented on the bill. I want to thank you for the substantive debate and also actually for the more or less support of this bill proposal, with the need to discuss some parameters. I have honestly admitted that in my introductory words that I perceive that the law deserves discussion and that we can certainly discuss some of the parameters in the committees. As regards the shortening of the time limit for the hearing, this is being conducted by an effort to be able to negotiate this by the end of the parliamentary term. Since we have been discussing issues with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for three months now, mentioned here as Mr Vilímec, some of them were mentioned by Mrs Nohavová, we have prepared solutions for most of them. MPSV - and I want to commend the MPSV at this point for being helpful to those negotiations. And if we're talking about the government bringing it up, I think we should have brought it up as a coalition. However, after the law was passed, I can commend the MPSV for the fact that we actually sat over it for a number of hours and that the MPSV created space to find a solution. These solutions are not simple, because they are not really very small funds. I just want to say to Mr Vilímc that even if we had approved all the changes, I would have liked to have approved them all, so we would not have made it to the border before the legislative changes before 2010 and 2012. We'll get about halfway there. So I don't think we're going to burden the state budget above peace, and I believe that disability really deserves that support. And if today we are thinking about how to help other vulnerable groups, and that it is necessary to help families with children and people who are socially weak and, of course, seniors, I think that disability is also waiting for that. So thank you again for the debate, and I am still intercede to approve a reduction of 20 days, i.e. 40 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u17	Mr Member, I have not yet finished the general debate. You made your proposal in the groundwork of the proposal at the beginning. I believe that a proposal for shortening should formally be made in the general debate. So I'm giving you some space if you'd like to present it now - just in case - formally what you're suggesting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u18	So I formally propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions by 20 days, i.e. 40 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-012-156.u19	Thank you. Anyone else interested in the show? If not, I am ending the general debate. Since there has not been a proposal for a return or a rejection of this proposal, we will now consider the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed the commandments of the Social Policy Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see any such proposition. We can therefore proceed to the vote. I've registered the check-out application, so I'm gonna ask all of you to re-enlist with your cards. Our numbers have settled, so we will proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? In the 305 vote, 102 Members signed up, for 101, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I don't see any such proposition. I note that this proposal has not been directed to the next committee. [[18.20 hours]] And since there was a proposal in the general debate to shorten the time limit for discussion of 20 days, i.e. 40 days, I am voting on this proposal. Who is in favour of shortening the time limit for discussion? Who's against it? Voting 306, 104 Members signed in for 82, against no one. This proposal was adopted. With this vote, we have exhausted this item, which I conclude, and we will continue to negotiate. Next up, I'm opening a point.
