ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u1	90. Government report on compensation for enterprises affected by this year's catastrophic drought I ask an authorized member of the government, Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, to take the floor. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u2	Thank you. Mr President, fellow Members, since I actually made an introduction to this issue at the time of 14.30 to 14.40, I will not be here to lecture again, so I would like to give the floor, if any, to the next party in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u3	Okay. I am initiating a suspended general debate. [[Members of the Faltynek and Kováčik report.]] I am sorry, I saw Mr Faltýnek first, then Mr Kováčik and other duly signed in. Please. [[Mr. Faltynek says he'd prefer a colleague to a Kováčik.]] In that case, first Mr Kováčik, then Mr Faltýnek and Mr Kučera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam and gentlemen, this was no gallantry from Mr Faltýnek, but it was that he realized that he would have to sit at the rapporteur's table all the time, and since I am the promoter or proposer of that point, it is customary that whoever brings that point here is punished for having to sit at the rapporteur's table. So I take that as my duty. That's why I beat my colleague Faltýnek. I don't want to talk for a long time, because the topic of water management in the landscape in the wider sense, principles of maintaining or withholding water in the landscape, principles of good agricultural practice, principles of proper management, setting the equilibrium in agricultural production again so that in these geographical widths the humus content, as well as other principles of such agrotechnical practice, which would allow the slowest possible drain of water from the landscape and the best possible retention of rainfall in all soil horizons, including eliminating the risks of sudden strong and heavy pitches in some areas, so many sentences have fallen on it, so many speeches and so many suggestions that I do not intend to repeat them. I just want to say that, after years of feeling thirsty in the desert or a soldier himself in the field, other political parties and other colleagues finally understand this issue, and it is good that it is no longer just an isolated voice, but that it is really a serious matter and a serious situation. Today, or at this point, we are very good - me and those of the agricultural civil associations and other institutions who have asked me to draw attention to this issue and try to make it clear before the elections how we want to help farmers - especially the immediate aid - about dealing with the current situation, as the Minister spoke very precisely about it in his introductory words. [[18.20 hours]] I am convinced that in spite of the fact that there will be elections, that it will take some time for the post-election situation to become stable enough that it will be possible to voice confidence in the new government that the new government will have some time to get used to in its functions, in its seats, but also in its duties and tasks, so that until then the current government will, among other things, work very intensively on this subject. That speech by the Minister of Agriculture made me feel like the government was serious. We can talk here - and those numbers are only going to run out, I mean specific numbers about specific damages, specific businesses, specific levels of precipitation, so that there are no confusion or perhaps even abuse of the situation, so we can talk about whether the amount being considered, which may be discussed and which may also be willing by the Minister of Finance, the truth, is enough or not to loosen up by gnashing his teeth. In recent times, when similar compensations were made, there has never been a 100% compensation, but let us bear in mind that a farmer, whether large, medium or small, is now an almost endangered species and that, despite the fact that the economic situation in this state is still - at least it is claimed - relatively solid, we are at a stage where growth is, so agriculture is not involved. I would also like to refute certain assumptions made by the ignorant public or not informed to some public that agriculture in the Czech Republic is only Agrofert and that the things we are talking about right now, the compensation, the aid that the government should, in turn, direct the Ministry of Agriculture to compensate for the damage or at least the partial reimbursement of the damage, will mainly be taken by Agrofert. It's not true. So as one who proves a specific damage, whether it's a large, medium, or small farmer, the ministry is in such a way that we believe it's an office. Despite the fact that there is a pre-election period and that we will be running around our regions and, as they say, we will lead that hot phase of the campaign, we will also monitor very carefully whether the government takes this matter seriously, whether the funds that will be released will be released quickly enough to help those most affected, those businesses most affected, with the creation of a new crop and with the purchase of possibly bulky or nuclear feeds for animal production, so that the upcoming winter feeding season will survive without serious injury. The worst thing would be that in animal production, which seems to be beginning to breathe into a certain development, it is precisely this situation that has caused us to return a few years ago and that there would be further disruption of breeding, the destruction of herds in particular of bovine animals, or cattle, where restarting is much more difficult. At this point, I would not like to propose any resolution, because it is clear from the Minister's speech that he is taking the matter very seriously, and I would like us to do the utmost - because we also have an agricultural committee called on this subject in addition to the subject of different qualities for next week in the Vysočina Region, Jihlava, so that in this Jihlava as a committee, which will definitely discuss it, we may already have some more specific information or information on developments in this situation. I thank the Government of the Czech Republic for taking my challenge seriously, and I look forward to the fact that this time it will not only be regrettable of farmers, that there has been a lot of fuss for nothing, but that consumers will feel with them that the situation has helped. If we don't help them, those prices that have been rising quite quickly lately can grow even more. The weather surge that causes these problems is not only in the Czech Republic. It is in a certain part of Europe or other continents. It's brighter than the sun today that it's gonna go down in prices. And please, nicely, if it is not helped, if the ingerence of the state is not helped, it may be that the butter will not only be in quotation marks for fifty crowns. In that sense, I am talking about consumers, about customers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u5	I also thank you and ask you to take the rapporteur's place. In fact, the Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný is reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have all my teeth. If I was to grind my teeth every time I asked for a state budget, I'd only have gums. [[Laughter and applause.]] I fully recognise the legitimate requirements of farmers, as well as the legitimate requirements of other bodies applying for State budget residues for 2017, possibly for 2018. I just have to point out that it is now up to the government to decide whether we are going to do the things that one coalition party requires, and that we are adding across the board from November 1st, or whether we are going to compensate for those people who got into disaster due to climate conditions. It's a government decision, the finance minister will follow it. The means in this year's budget are few, the next budget depends on what we dissolve them for. I'm here to run the government's decision, so it depends on the government's decision. The demand is not specified, I don't know how much it will be, but I suspect the government will have to decide what the priority is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u7	Thank you. Mr Faltýnek is now duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u8	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, I would rather mention a few technical matters on this subject. I would confirm what Vice-President Pavel Kováčik said here that we want to address this matter on the agricultural committee next Thursday, September 14. I now have some concrete information directly from the farmers, where the de facto - and already mentioned here by Minister Jurečka - is currently counting the damage. These are not yet precisely quantified, however, if we could find some money to help farmers in this catastrophic drought, we already have a certified referee title under national subsidies, it is notified in Brussels, or there is no problem with that. It has already paid off drought compensation for 2015 and twice some minor compensation for frost at fruit. The title has been notified up to CZK 12,5 billion, and there are approximately 2 billion exhausted, so there is quite a large space. If those resources were available, as the Minister of Finance said, that we could basically do this without any conflict with the European Union. The principle is that in each plant on a given crop there must be a loss of more than 30 per cent compared to the five-year average. It is, of course, an effort to determine, objectively, the cadastrals, where the loss was caused or realised. In 2015, just for recovery, the volume was objectively calculated at 1.2 billion. But here I point out that only fodder crops and corn were affected by that catastrophic drought, because it was late, and grass, and unfortunately this year it had an impact on cereals, rape, potatoes. So the estimate of farmers based on the current information I have is somewhere between three and four billion crowns. And it's really going to be a debate in the government that is still a priority this year, whether to help farmers here with this matter or to deal with other things. As far as resources are concerned, of course, the Department of Agriculture has some resources. I am referring to the contribution to the state budget from the profits of the Forests of the Czech Republic and from Budvar, but, of course, I do not want to guide the Minister of Agriculture. That's his jurisdiction. I am simply appealing to this, and I will do so on the Committee on Agriculture, and I believe that it will get the majority on the Committee on Agriculture across the political spectrum, so that we can give farmers something to damage the drought this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Kučera has now duly signed up for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u10	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Today we are dealing with a very serious issue, a drought which has, of course, affected not only farmers but also other residents of the Czech Republic to a large extent. The problem is, of course, global, but with us, as far as drought is concerned, we have to admit that agriculture itself is one of the reasons. I don't mean farmers, I mean agriculture. It is, of course, the impact of a large area of a highly intense agricultural landscape, which is heavily fragmented and is essential for the other wealth. An important current problem is intensive management of large blocks of agricultural land without sufficient so-called green landscape infrastructure. Why do I say that? Because this government has not done too much to change this way of farming in the landscape. And it's obvious. The steps that have been and which my colleagues may be saying that they have already done have been completely inadequate. The negative effects of agricultural activity not only affect the ecosystems of the agricultural landscape, but also, of course, the adjacent aquatic and forest ecosystems. It should be noted that the agricultural landscape has significantly lost its ability to take water. And the water is almost unable to enter underground and enrich water resources through the hardened and other degradation processes negatively affected by the soil. This is once again the impact of the intensive management method. The fact that the land in the Czech Republic is not in good condition and is threatened by many degradation factors has been said many times. Unfortunately, we have not yet succeeded in doing the main thing, which means changing the management system. I have already named the most significant negative influence here, which is related to increasing agricultural production and, of course, not only to intensive agricultural production, so this is also due to the intensification of wood production in the livestock forests associated with the carry-over of produced biomass, but also to the loss of organic matter stocks, resulting in the loss of soil organisms, their functions, of course by the compaction used by the way of farming in the fields by the heavy mechanisms, etc., the loss of soil structure and the disruption of nutrient cycles. Why am I talking about this? Of course, these discussions are taking place on many forums, on many platforms, on many seminars, but in order to be transformed into real steps, this government has not succeeded very much. She had quite a lot of opportunities for this, a lot of opportunities, but the results are not yet visible. Of course, I have heard a number of statements, I have read a whole series of information on how it should be, but the real impact on landscape management is not visible. As a matter of fact, it can be seen that the real impact will then be compensated by the companies affected by this year's drought. [[unintelligible]] So I would like to call not only on the Minister of Agriculture but also on the Minister of the Environment, whose responsibility is also great, but on the whole government to take this area very seriously, because if the Minister of Finance is talking about some priorities, I would really put this one among the number one priorities. Because if we do not manage the landscape healthyly, it will not only have an impact on the fact that we will have to compensate farmers for their crop failure, but we will have to deal with significantly greater impacts throughout our entire lives in our Republic. This means, once again, I call on the government to take this issue very seriously, not only at forums and discussion clubs, but with real action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u11	Thank you, too. I'm recording three factual points. Mr rapporteur, wait, you are in line with a factual remark. So in the order as they came, first, Mr Faltýnek, with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u12	Thank you for the floor. What the chairman of the TOP 09 club, Michal Kučera, said here, exceptionally agree with him, I will now agree in part. The question is whether we are capable, and I do not know, of course, who will sit here after the elections in the Chamber of Deputies, but whether the future House and the new coalition of government or any new government plan will be able to actually embark on this debate. Because he forgot one more thing, and that's organic matter in the soil. And as animal production in the Czech Republic, especially cattle farming, dropped dramatically, the organic matter in the soil also decreased. And it's the organic matter that binds the water and keeps the water in the soil. So it's not just a question of the size of the blocks and their proper breakdown so that there are some restraints, ties, etc. on the slopes, but the current coalition government has at least done a turn in that it has started to encourage more livestock farmers with animal production from national sources, at least this, that the fall has stopped. It is true that she has not done much to motivate farmers to build the landscape elements more simply into the landscape and into their economies. Because it's about money. It's about money, no one's gonna be just like that, just when they're doing business for profit, breaking down their soil blocks with some belts or some tie. And I think that this debate should therefore begin to look for consensus in order to essentially support those subjects who want to do this. I think that there is a way that can lead gradually, so it will be a long time before the soil structure can be improved and before at least a part of the original elements that were there can be returned to the landscape. But perhaps the Minister of Agriculture will respond to that. At this point, I don't have the detail of whether there's any incentive to motivate farmers to do these things in relation to those land blocks outside of their return to animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u13	Now, Mr Kováčik, Mr Bendl will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u14	Thank you for the floor. My colleague Faltýnek made it very easy for me because he said many things for me. Please, just for a second. There is no difference between a large, medium, small farmer, there is no difference that we need to correct. The fact that we have large-scale management of, say, most of the food production has only allowed Czech, Moravian and Silesian agriculture to survive. And we have here, as farmers, a huge task to increase self-sufficiency and food security. And I am not talking about the quality of food that is traditionally high in our country, not to mention that we recommend consumers, if they want to avoid problems, to buy Czech, Moravian and Silesian food from producers, from processors. It is indifferent whether it is from a small, medium or large, but from a Czech consumer (?). That's the first thing. Second thing. What my colleague Faltýnek has been talking about in terms of organic matter in the soil is what I've been talking about for twenty-two years, that the agricultural system has been disrupted in the balance of animal and plant production, that fields are looted, that straw will also be removed from the field, that businesses are sometimes focused only on plant production and that everything will be taken away without giving it. Those are the things that lead to the balance, too. And please nicely make any government, if we want to fulfill what agriculture is supposed to produce for society, not only food, but also those extra-production functions, landscapes, etc., so that these things are also remembered. Believe me, my whole active life with agriculture has been connected, and I know what I'm talking about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Petr Bendl is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr. President. Colleagues, colleagues, we've been discussing this topic for a long time, four years we've been talking about whether to keep water in the countryside and what we're going to do about it. I have to confirm the words of Mr. Speaker Kučera, who said we didn't do enough. If you look at the figures of the Ministry of Agriculture's expenditure on water management, expenditures are falling. That on the one hand, we say water is a priority for us, but if we look at what we're actually doing, then the reality is a little different. [[18.40 hours]] What has been done in the past - and it is a good thing that it is still being worked on - concerns the very chance that the programme has been notified in such a way that it can be helped by farmers who, not by their own fault, are in a tragic situation, whether it is drought or other natural disabilities. The program makes it possible. We started it, and it was basically dragged by Minister Toman, saying that this government took advantage of it. And it's a good thing he's taking advantage of it. And if the program has already been created, it needs to be filled. I believe that the Ministry of Agriculture has enough funds, or the government should have - the Minister of Finance has left - enough funds should always be able to address this as one of the priorities. We can probably agree that if we have tens of millions of crowns of spending on the repair of chapels on the one hand and on the other hand the need to address the drought situation, we will probably agree on what is a greater priority. I've been pointing this out a few times, and we'll find a few of these in the Department of Agriculture's budget. I hope there will be a consensus at the agricultural committee's meeting after all. That she would be able to either chapter of the Department of Agriculture... And I'll remind you that the Ministry-- okay, I'll sign up one more time. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u17	Okay. Thank you, Congressman, for respecting the Rules of Procedure. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Běhounek. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u18	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, colleagues, members of the government, everything has been said here. It's just to keep us in the loop. I thank the Ministry and the Minister very much for doing so, because apart from the losses that have been said here on corn, cereals and so on, there has been no increase in fodder. South Moravia and Třebíčsko have nothing to feed. And I have information from the Highlands that if it doesn't go anywhere - and it hasn't grown much at the available distance - it really threatens to kill other herds or lower cattle. So if the agricultural committee is going to deal with this, I am very pleased and I ask you to really consider this matter. And, as Mr Kováčik and colleague Faltýnek said, it does not matter how big a business it is. The drought is everywhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u19	Thank you. Now with Mr Kováčik in fact. Mr Bendl will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u20	I will follow up, Mrs and gentlemen, on my colleague Běhounek, who thanked the Ministry for taking this up. I think it is important to thank all of you who, in your vote, supported my proposal to include this item. You show that the Czech, Moravian and Silesian countryside and Czech agriculture and the future of our people in the countryside are not entirely indifferent to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u21	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Bendl. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Brabec will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u22	Thank you. I'll just fill in what I couldn't say in the previous remark. The government inherited more than 18 billion from previous governments in the accounts of Budvar and the Forests of the Czech Republic. Crowns. If you look at how much there's left of it, it's not a lot of money. However, I believe that, for example, from the Forests of the Czech Republic or from other sources, reserves should be created that would be able to cover situations such as those in which Czech agriculture has been brought into the last few years quite often, so that the Minister of Finance does not have to say resources. In short, the government as a whole and the Ministry of Agriculture, along with it, should think that such a situation can come up. And she should be required to be prepared for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u23	Thank you. Now Mr. Vice Prime Minister Richard Brabec. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I can only deal with the facts to speed things up. Well, when I came to the Department of the Environment, I did not notice in any way that, after the last government, on whose behalf the chairman of the TOP 09 Club was now speaking, Mr Kučera and Mr Bendl, there would be any strategy for combating drought after the last government. That's what we came up with. No one here has done anything against drought. It was supposed to start 20 years ago. The Czech Republic is quite well prepared for floods, not so dry. We have approved not only basic strategic materials, including several hundred specific tasks that we have begun to implement. Just for us, the Department of the Environment, we've invested, or we've put out a call for roughly nine billion so far. We have another four billion prepared for hundreds of very specific measures to combat drought. So I think it's really extraordinarily flattering if someone here says our government didn't do anything about it. If we, my fellow Members, by your means, Mr President, had something to build on, we would have gone on. But unfortunately, you left us a zero. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u25	Thank you, too. Two more factual points. First Mr Kučera, then Mr Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u26	Well, I'd only react briefly to my previous speaker, Minister Brabec. The whole professional public knows they didn't do anything. We know that there will be a bunch of papers left over from this government, too. The introduction of rainbow-type programs, which are absolutely absurd, which have absolutely nothing to do with water retention in the landscape, on the contrary, will take the water somewhere in the sewer, we all know that. But this is agriculture we're talking about. That's the theme of today. And here really, if we're talking about the environment, the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister of the Environment, the Minister of the Environment has completely failed here. Because he was supposed to be the one constantly pointing out that the current agricultural system is completely inappropriate to hold back water in the countryside. This means that, on the contrary, this system of landscape management contributes to drought. And even the most, most of all, the factors we've talked about. I know, of course, that can't be changed from year to year. I don't want to blame anyone for that, and I don't want to tell anyone that he could've changed this place in four years. That's how much we're all in court here, of course. On the other hand, there could already be a number of measures that could have significantly changed the landscape. And unfortunately, I don't see much here. There are some partial steps that might somehow improve it cosmetically. But if we really want to change landscape management significantly, then we need to take significant steps to do so. And I just don't see them here under the current government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u27	Thank you. Mr Bendl and other factual points now duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u28	Thank you for the floor. Well, I have to go to the Minister of the Environment - because he probably doesn't know, because if he did, he wouldn't be doing that. The program, on which this government can now compensate farmers affected by the drought of their damage, was created under Nečasův' government, conclusively. And I say here, and I said it before, Minister Toman dragged him. So it's not true that no one's paying attention to it. How can you say that, Minister? So are a number of other things. He's prepared to monitor erosion, the way he works with erosion itself, and he's working with it. And I've been saying from this place that it's a good thing it's done. Then why do you say nothing happened or happened? And the billions you're talking about. Are those Czech billions or Europeans? European. And who prepared them, the programs? No, no, no, Minister. They were being prepared by Nečasův' government and dragged by Tomanův. I really do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u29	Thank you. Now, the Minister of Agriculture, with a factual remark, followed by the Minister of the Environment and Vice Prime Minister Richard Brabec. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u30	With Mr Kováčik putting this point, I think I find some, especially the former Minister of Agriculture, now Mr Bendl, to comment on things here, as if we had not automatically faced the colds of 2016, the droughts of 2015, the major crisis in the dairy sector in the last three years. We always went and communicated automatically. In 2009, neither koruna was paid to farmers for the ODS ministers when it was dry in 2012. We have made every effort to help farmers with milk, with pork. Payments were made to them in large volumes. And that's what we're doing now. We do this naturally because it's the work of the Department of Agriculture. Of course, you're referring to the fact that the notification program started then. That's partly true. But when we compensated the situation in the dairy sector and the pork sector from national sources, we did it without a notified framework. It was a matter of will. So we do it naturally, we don't need x's here to do it, which tells us we should. And it's your accusation to the address called. The chapel. Look at the whole grant title that's all there is to it. It includes field roads, it includes firehouses, it includes things that concern general civic amenities. Of course, we will be looking for funds at the Department of Agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u31	Thank you, too. Now Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Richard Brabec and Mr. Kováčik will prepare himself. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u32	Thank you for the floor. Well, that's really smiling. So we have just over 200 in the last six months, I think that today it is 220 municipalities, especially smaller municipalities, that have prepared a special program that they are pumping today, and for 100,000 people, now I think there are over 100,000 people from 220 municipalities, maybe we have given subsidies to deepen their wells, drill new wells to have drinking water. A hundred thousand people, that's not quite enough, I think. Rainbow's just the tip of the iceberg. Yeah, maybe it'll solve a matter of about 10,000 people or 10,000 households. But besides, maybe we already made 300 new water tanks, 300 ponds. There are hundreds of specific measures. I don't really get it from the ODS, where we were even talking yesterday about whether you admit that there was climate change, and you said that it doesn't really exist. It's got to do with drought. And now all of a sudden, we're the bad guys. I just want to say that this government and, above all, the cooperation between the Ministry of Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture have really brought concrete programmes and concrete solutions. Because how can Chairman Kučera say there is nothing? Well, what were you doing there? When the ODS had a minister of the environment for four years or less, did the TOP 09 have a deputy there? Well, if you'd prepared the programs, then the measures must have been done here by now. But they're not. We started with them, unfortunately it doesn't go through the cow hop system, it's going to be a calf. So I guess the next government's just gonna profit from it. But we laid the foundation. We're quite proud of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u33	Thank you, too. Now, Mr Kováčik, with a point of fact. He'll be ready... In that case, if you are duly registered, I will give the floor to Mr Kučer with a factual remark. [[to Mr Kováčik]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u34	Thank you. I will respond very briefly to my previous speaker, Minister Brabec. The measures he's been talking about, I'd like to say: it's weak, it's weak, it's weak. We are really talking about a fundamental change here, and this fundamental change must come towards agriculture. This is today's topic. I really can't answer for the previous ODS ministers. That is, of course, very sad today, when after a four-year term, someone is still referring to the previous government. That's just very bad. The fact that tanks have been built, of course, we all know that water storage tanks in the landscape may be fulfilling some function, but the function is, of course, the difference between the levels. Once the tank is filled, and then it's full. And the retention capacity is different from those levels. That's all those tanks will bring in in the future. But the subject today is called landscape management, agriculture. And I understand the Minister of the Environment didn't want to get involved. That's huge in quotes, there's a power resort, there's a huge lobby, there's huge money in it, there's a big lobby in the House, in the representatives of Agrofert. One is the chairman of the agricultural committee, which I think is also blamed by the European Commission and called a conflict of interest. And the Minister of the Environment didn't respond to that at all. Of course, because he's also from Agrofert. Maybe, maybe not. But in any case, it didn't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u35	Thank you. Real remarks, first the Minister with a factual remark, then Mr Bendl. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u36	I must strongly look back on how it sounds here, that nothing has changed in the landscape, that measures are not taken against the effects of climate change and frequent droughts. At the Department of Agriculture in the last 12 months, we have over 500 applications for the construction of new ponds, retention tanks, their renewal and debauchery. Over the last three years, we have satisfied all farmers' requests for construction, renewal or investment in irrigation systems, Mr Kučera, through Mr President. That's right. Come, I'd be happy to give you the numbers. Or you can come to your colleagues at the waterworks. We've got the system set up. Please don't shout at me, I'm not yelling at you either, outside the House's Rules of Procedure. Furthermore, when we look at the increase in the area of intermediate crops, protein crops, permanent grasslands, forest crops, all these areas are growing. Forests are mainly planted in locations with the lowest bonita. Things are done that are systemic and are interlinked. In the last year, our livestock stocks have also increased and the balance of organic matter has improved. So saying that nothing has been done here, and everything is wrong, is either ignorance, or it's pure purpose. Which I hope is not your intention in this. We're working with the Minister of the Environment. We are often criticized by farmers for coming up with things that are against production. We're seeing an increase in the area of biobands today in the last three years. We see a lot of land, big land, which today is divided either by a different crop, or by a special blend of biobands. These are things that are visible in the landscape, which are proven to be documentable on hectares that are cultivated in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u37	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Petr Bendl, Mr Pavera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u38	For the last time. The competence dispute between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment in the field of water management and water resources is long-term. And I am convinced that it is set today very badly against the Ministry of Agriculture. However, it is still true, and the Minister will certainly not deny that less money is really given to the water management area, almost every year for the last two or three years. It's possible, we can discuss it on the agricultural committee, whether or not we're keeping anybody here. Because I'm pointing it out here almost every time we discuss the state budget. And I'd say to the Minister of the Environment that 100,000 people, that's probably one district of Prague. That it's definitely not something we can show off in some way, on page one. On the other hand, even the Minister of the Environment has to know well that he's always in the past, and now I'm telling you, every government has always done something in this area. The Czech Republic has made enormous progress over the past 20 or 25 years with regard to water quality, its purity, etc., everything related to this. That's what you have to admit. And it doesn't mean it's not done and it doesn't do anything, it certainly doesn't. It is true that more should be done and that the effectiveness of the spent means, as may be today, should certainly be better.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u39	Thank you. Now, Mr Pavera, with a point of order, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u40	Good evening. I'm really gonna try to be brief. Certainly agriculture is very important for rural development and should be encouraged in some way to really create other small farms, other farms and food businesses in rural areas in particular. But I didn't mean to say that. Rather, I wanted to point out that in the southern part of Moravia, in the Highlands and in the southern part of Bohemia, of course, they are unlucky that it is still hotter there, there is also drought, but probably there have been some major interventions in nature in the last 50 years that have withdrawn water from a certain territory. Therefore, I would recommend to the Minister of the Environment that he may not allow constructions that could still endanger water management in a given area, such as South Moravia, etc., if new gravel and sandboxes were opened, because they can bring the landscape a really big risk of pulling water out of a large area. I think, as the Minister said, he sees the green belts etc., they were already here during the previous governments, biocoridors around the woods were being made and, of course, they should be continued. But it's still not what it should be, that is. that the areas should not have an area of 200 or more hectares, which I think is within the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture. So much for a message. Otherwise, I must thank our farmers in our region, who were lucky enough to have rained more there, and had a very good crop, even above average. Maybe they can somehow help farmers in South Moravia and elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u41	Thank you. Now duly signed up by the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u42	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come slowly, but surely. It didn't occur to me that at this time, the individual government's past or current Garnitures would in particular be attacking who was responsible. I'd have been even more rational. However, I must say that the myth about the harmfulness of large-scale management is really merely a myth, and that if we want to go to the root of the problem, even if the specific measures do not bring us that only the Minister - and the Minister - and the Minister will produce, then we must say, let us ask who let the cows cut off the heads and this has ruined the whole seeding process and the supply of organic matter into the soil, but that would still be there for many hours. So, at this point, I would like to thank you for the debate that is going on until now, and yet I am proposing a resolution. Now, please pay attention: The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Minister of Agriculture's information on the procedure for dealing with the consequences of catastrophic drought and asks the Committee on Agriculture to discuss and specify individual measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u43	Thank you. The motion for this resolution will need to be presented in a detailed debate so that we can put it to a vote. Then I'd ask you to repeat it. I don't see any more applications for the debate. In that case, I'm done asking if you want to take the final word - Minister? Mr. Rapporteur? It's not like that. We will therefore proceed to a detailed debate and ask you, Mr rapporteur, to present a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u44	I refer to the motion for a resolution that I tabled in the general debate. But since it is very complex, I would like to repeat it: The Chamber of Deputies takes note of the Minister of Agriculture's information on the solution to the consequences of catastrophic drought and asks the Committee on Agriculture to specify individual measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-06-ps2013-060-02-005-090.u45	Thank you. I do not see any further application for a detailed debate. In that case, I am ending the detailed debate. I wonder if you want the final word at this point - the rapporteur, the minister? It's not like that. I'm registering an application for check-out. I'll check you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards. The motion for a resolution has been tabled. I wonder if it's necessary to repeat it. I don't see a request. In that case, I will put it to a vote. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as presented in the detailed debate, should press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 30, registered by 96 Members, on proposal 88. [[No one.]] I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I'm done discussing this point. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 18.30 to the end of the day, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes, and from 19 o'clock, Mr Tomio Okamura and Mr Radim Fiala apologizes for working reasons until the end of the day, and from 1816 for working reasons he apologises until the end of the day of the sitting, Mrs Jana Pastuchová. On the basis of the agreement, this was the last point in today's negotiations. I thank you, ladies and gentlemen, and I interrupt the House of Deputies meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning. I wish you the rest of the day.
