ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u1	1. Proposal for the election of Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies I ask that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor and introduce us to the next procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u2	Hello, good afternoon. Dear Members of the Government, Mr President, Members of Parliament, after last week we will therefore proceed today, as has been added and as we have voted, to the second election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, we will occupy one vacant post. We, in accordance with the House's decision on the Election Commission on Monday 27 November at our 4th meeting, discussed the proposals submitted, respectively. it was one proposal submitted, it was a proposal from the Democratic bloc, respectively. The ODS MP who nominated Mr Petr Fiala for this vacant post as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and we approved this nomination for the Commission by resolution 14. For the record, I will repeat quickly that four Vice-Presidents were elected by the Chamber of Deputies on 24 November, namely Jan Hamáček for Social Democracy, who will be the first Vice-President of the House, received 143 votes, Vojtěch Filip for KSČM 121 votes, Vojtěch Pikal for Pirates 102 votes and Tomio Okamura for SPD, who also received 102 votes. I will now ask you, Mr President, to open the debate on the proposed candidate for the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and to be sure, I will repeat that the vote on the way in which the elections are to be held is not in question at the moment, because it is legally confidential. This means, after a possible debate has taken place, we will go to the State Acts to implement the first round of the second election, the second secret election. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u3	I thank you, Mr President, and I am opening up a debate on this point. I'm asking if anyone's interested in the show. President Faltýnek, club of the ANO 2011 movement. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u4	Good afternoon. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr President, Dear Government, I can't forgive myself for not saying a few words here. After the unsuccessful election last week, I said here from this place that I would appeal to my colleagues at our club to support Petr Fiala as Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. You all know very well that in recent days, but not only in recent days, but still, we are constantly blamed by the media and other political actors that we are undemocracy, that we are not generous, that we do not respect the relative system of representation in the House. That is why I would like to say a few words here about what has actually happened so far in particular and what we have come up with in particular at these negotiations and what we have agreed with in terms of the debate on the occupation in the House. First of all, and I think we all remember that last week, we gave up our claim based on the outcome of the election to the Vice-President of the House. We can probably agree that, as a result of the elections, we would be entitled to two Vice-Presidents of the House as a movement. But we said that we wanted to reach a maximum consensus in relation to the number of subjects in the House. Secondly, and this has not yet been fulfilled, but we will deal with it tomorrow, we have offered an agreement to the bodies in the House on important committees. Here may be a question for a colleague, through the President, Mr Petr Fiala, how many important committees have had in the last parliamentary term. I feel like one-- a mandate. And it is true that the ODS has a better election result than in the last term. But we could also ask our colleagues from social democracy how they were between 2010 and 2013 when they were 22.08 percent on behalf of committee leaders. Well, no glory, my friends. It wasn't any glory. However, our proposal, which we are trying to make, and I believe it has a chance to catch up, is that the opposition will actually have a foreign committee, an environmental committee, a public administration and regional development, a school committee, a defence committee, for security, a constitutional committee, an economic committee, a committee for European affairs, a budget committee and a mandate and an immune committee. So these are just facts, let everyone translate it into English as they please. I'm just stating what we're prepared for, what we're offering. I believe that if we shake hands with these solutions, it will happen. The third thing I'd like to mention, but I don't want to cause another argument and debate, but just forgive me for having to say this here, and if emotions can be kept in check, then let's vote quickly and continue with the program that we have ahead of us. So, when we were discussing representation in committees with the ODS, we basically accepted the requirements that were clearly structured, including personnel requirements, at the first and second negotiations. [[14.20 hours]] It seemed logical to us, we've actually agreed to it. It was a request for a school, security or defence and constitutional law committee. And then for election purposes, it was actually -- and I'm going to call it a block, because today at the Gremium, we agreed not to call it anything different, but a block -- and it complicated the situation. However, I think that we are able to go back to that agreement with respect for this block and that in the end it has a chance to do the same. So the ODS doesn't recognize us as a democratic party, constantly talking about us as one man's side, about being cheaters, threatening democracy. I'm saying this because today our club - I've already said it on TV cameras - was very stormy. And I've never seen anything like it in four years. When we persuaded our colleagues to vote for Petr Fial despite the fact that we were constantly kicked in, and that we were interested in working, unblocking the situation and moving forward. There are committees and other things ahead of us tomorrow, the committee. So from this title I think that we have achieved a significant majority and that - I don't want to say how much, it's a secret choice, I can't estimate - but that the vast majority of our colleagues simply support Petr Fiala. In conclusion, the very last thing, the last point. I didn't respond to the performances that sounded and created some kind of reminiscence from the past when it was common, especially in the ODS, and that's kissing the ring. I did not respond on purpose because we had the opportunity to discuss with all the subjects in the House who were interested in nominated and running for head of office in the House, the Vice-President of the House. And it is true that - now that I do not distort it, but President Michálek gave us all the club presidents a biography of Mr Pikal asking for his support in the election. I gave it to all our colleagues. Similarly, Radim Fiala came to coffee with a request for support from Tomio Okamura and so did Pavel Kováčik when it came to Vojtěch Filip. So I didn't think of it as some kind of kissing the ring, but just like a normal friendly debate about mutual support in the election of the House's organs. So much on my part. And please, I don't want to create any emotions with this. If it's even a little bit possible, let's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate? I don't see anyone. So I'm done with the debate. Preparatory final word, Mr. Chairman? [[He's turning to Mr. Kolovratník.]] Or I'll just ask you to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u6	Thank you. So I'm just gonna set a deadline in that final word for issuing tickets and then counting the votes. Let's make a deal. It takes 12 minutes for an election committee to issue tickets. So please, by 14.35 and then we'll add ten minutes. We'll be quick, so we'll be able to announce the result of the election at 14.45.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u7	Thank you. So the ticket vote will begin immediately after the suspension of our negotiations and it will take 12 minutes. Then we'll leave the election committee to process the results for 15 minutes. I'll meet you in the conference room at 14.45. I am interrupting the meeting for the secret election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u8	Dear colleagues, it is 14.45 and we will continue to negotiate in an adjourned manner. Allow me first to read the apology of Minister Havlíček, who apologizes for business reasons from 15.00 pm. Furthermore, I would like to read for the record the apology of Mr Vondrák, who had already been excused before 14.30 hours, but the apology did not sound on the microphone. And now I see the President of the Election Commission. I give the floor to President Martin Kolovratník to inform us of the outcome of the secret election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm going to ask you all to settle down in your seats and allow for today's meeting. That applies to you, too, colleague. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u9	Thank you for the floor. The President of the Election Commission is always ready with the mustache of the Movember brand. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to announce to you that 186 Members and Members have taken part in this election, so 186 ballots have been issued, and the quorum required for the election of the candidate has therefore been 94. In that election, 183 ballots were submitted, which means three tickets were not submitted in the election. I will briefly give information that Petr Fiala has won 116 of our votes, so he was elected Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies in the first round and I congratulate him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u10	Thank you, Mr President. I wanted to congratulate you, so I also congratulate you on the election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. And I'm going to ask him to take the word he's applied for, and then take the position - I presume it's on my right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u11	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, I won't go back to the events of the last few days or to the appearance of President Faltýnek. The reason I volunteered is only to thank those who voted for me. I have to thank some three times, because I have been voted three times, and that is a privilege that none of my fellow Members in the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies has. And it's certainly a very strong mandate. At the same time, I am able, on the basis of my experience in other political and public positions, to distinguish well between the position of the President of the Civil Democratic Party and the procedural and supra-party functions of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and I will behave accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u12	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. [[Let's hear it.]] We've exhausted the point with a successful choice. And before I end it, in the absence of priority rights, Vice-President Pekarová Adamová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u13	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, dear colleagues, I would like to congratulate Vice-President Petr Fial from this position. Thank you for finally having it this way in the third round, even though I think it should have been the first time in the election. However, as our President Kalousek's representative, who is duly excused, let me make one more point. Now that we have the complete leadership of this House, I think it's useful to recall the matter that happened this weekend and the statements made by our President, Mr Vondráček. I think you've all seen it in the media, that you're all probably familiar with it, but just to remind those who wouldn't know, he was answering a question on Václav Moravec's question regarding the release of President Babiš and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek. And I must say that the statements that were made there were really quite shocking and scandalous from the mouth of such a high-ranking constitutional agent. I'll read them so you know what we're talking about. It was therefore a question of whether the decision to issue the mandate and immunity committee and this House would somehow be influenced by the fact that Mr Babiš should be the Prime Minister of this country. And to that - and I quote - Mr Vondráček said: "This will be a completely different decision again, because there we will decide what is better for this situation and for this country, because it is a person who will be Prime Minister and will form a government." And then, when asked about these statements by other media, so that he had a chance to explain, so that we had a chance to really understand them in the context, he said to the radio on November 27: "Since Andrej Babiš will be Prime Minister, the police investigation of the Chapi Nest case could be postponed by four years." Mr Vondráček hereby denies the fundamental principles of the rule of law, which means that one person should be here in this case above the law. However, the laws are to apply without distinction to all. I therefore ask you, President Vondráček, either to explain these statements, because I think that other colleagues from other clubs will also be interested in your explanation, and that, if you do not explain them enough, you also call them back and apologize for them, because at the moment you are making Members who are here, actually de facto superiors, and especially Mr Babiš, who is to be the future Prime Minister. And I think that is not the case, and that the immunity that we have and are enjoying should certainly not be used in this regard, and he will really be judged as a Member, not just as Prime Minister. So if we are still in the legal state, and I hope that the Czech Republic is still, I think that your apology and explanation of these statements would be appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u14	I will therefore, if I may, end the matter with the election of the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and among the points I will ask my colleague, Vice-President Filip, to take my place. I'll say a few words about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u15	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, good afternoon. The President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček will perform with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u16	Thank you for your word. I'd like to ask all my colleagues not to provoke and create artificial problems where they aren't. First of all. That sentence is actually torn out of the overall debate, when we discussed the debate with our colleague Mr Svoboda and we also discussed the foreign press as various information about the Czech Republic emerges. That was also an incentive for my thought march, why I said that sentence. But read into it carefully. There was no sentence that Prime Minister, so that's why we didn't release him. This is merely a statement that if it is a prime minister, that is all the more carefully and all the more rigorously we need to check all the information, and we must also treat it this way. And we're not gonna pretend it's the same. Because also the ODS in the previous parliamentary term e.g. invited Mr. Babiš to take up his mandate because he is an electoral leader. And we told them -- but we didn't ask Mr. Liberty to give a mandate, we didn't ask him to clear himself. And they said -- that's a whole different thing, isn't it? He's an election leader. Well, now he's gonna even be Prime Minister. So all the more we have to do is get out of the law and we're going to have to evaluate everything. But that doesn't mean that the law has changed, that anyone wouldn't want to honor the rule of law. The principle of immunity is really based on the protection of the legal power from the executive power, and that is what I meant. And I'd like to point out that I was in the room with Mr. Independent Politician and Mr. Fiala, and if they thought at that moment that the statement was over the line, they would have heard. So in the overall context, the statement is perfectly correct. And even the factor of being Prime Minister can... And I meant the members of the ANO movement. Of course, it is up to each of you to make decisions according to your conscience and consciousness. This is an extremely difficult situation for us, and that it is a prime minister, perhaps there can be such an impulse for extradition on the scale of the scales, because it is better to issue. But I took it in context, as they would look at us abroad. Both variants carry their pros and cons. The option of having a criminally prosecuted prime minister has the right to purify himself, but what we're gonna talk about is he's probably not gonna make it in four years. On the contrary, the opposition may then argue that, at a time when the Prime Minister is the head of executive power, with the exception of the President, as is the guarantee of an independent investigation. I've already practically given my thoughts in the academic debate. And I strongly object to someone putting in my mouth that when someone is prime minister, they are above the law and have different treatment than a Member. The treatment will be the same, it will be here in the House. But, in short, and well in terms of some policy, and perhaps marginally, we need to consider how this will work. That's all I wanted to say about it. And I'm ready for any objective debate. I liked the debate on TV because we tried not to attack each other and we really exchanged arguments. On the other hand, I think it is not my place to intervene in this debate as President of the House, and I will not intervene in it, nor here in plenary. That's just gonna have to be discussed by others. But I hope you will accept my explanation that this was meant that there was no dash: the Prime Minister - not to issue, Prime Minister - immunity. That says a little bit about those who subsequently claim it, how they think. I certainly don't think that way. So I'm measuring you by myself. It's just a little bit of a thought on the other side. I have nothing to apologize for, I have discussed openly pros and cons. It's also true that on that show you're not able to say everything you have to say, usually the host interrupts you. If there's anything else you'd like, I'm prepared to give you here personally any explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u17	I thank the President of the Chamber of Deputies. There are three entries with a factual remark. With priority rights - there is no debate, I note that only those who have priority rights can speak - indeed, Minister of Justice and then President Bartoš and President Stanjura. Minister, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to ask that we really stick to our rhetoric and not attack each other as we have just seen it. I find it strange to call on someone to apologize for their opinions. Why? Why should anyone apologize for their opinions? And it also seems strange to me to say that the institute, which is anchored directly in our Constitution and therefore probably has some meaning, so the possibility of using it, if anyone mentions it, is called an attack on the rule of law. If I want to say something like that, I have to say that the institute is being abused, and then I should also say what the institute is supposed to serve. What was it supposed to serve in the imaginations of a constitutionalist? And I think what President Vondráček said is a perfectly legitimate consideration of what the institute in its present form, when it is no longer the definitive cessation of the prosecution, but only its interruption, so that it can really be the purpose of such an institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u19	President Bartoš with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already heard from my previous speakers and Mr Vondráček how subtle nuances can be in the interpretation of some spoken opinion. I have seen the speeches of President Vondráček, and I would like to remind you of the thing that we all heard here a week ago through the President in his speech. Because the word makes a man, the word makes a woman, and here on the counter, there was a memory or inspiration from the spy position, which at the moment throws away the party card. I would not only like to ask Mr Vondráček, but also Mr Kolovratník, if he is acting in the media, and he was in that debate as President of the Chamber of Deputies, so he spoke for the Chamber of Deputies to be very careful in these statements, because the fact that we would somehow relativise the seriousness of the negotiations not only of the mandate and immunity committee and the future vote of the Chamber of Deputies on the issue of Mr Andrej Babiš and Mr Faltýnek is certainly not the opinion of this Chamber of Deputies. And I'm sure you've noticed that even in that debate, he always jumps out of what position he's talking from. And I think that, indeed, when Mr Vondráček steps out of the position of President of the Chamber of Deputies, he should be very careful how he comments on this serious situation. Thank you. And I thank the President, too, for speaking with an explanation. However, I warn you that these nuances are the very ones who make a political picture of how we act here in the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u21	Thank you. Believe me, I'm considering and I'll be even more careful. I'm asking who else is interested in the show. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u22	Good afternoon, Mr President, colleagues. I'm of the opinion that if someone's handing out punches, they have to kidnap some kind of wound. Unfortunately, some of our colleagues just want to give blows, and they don't want to kidnap them. But that's more of a general point. I spoke to what President Vondráček was deeply mistaken about. And if someone wants to interpret ODS positions and they can be our press spokesperson, I'd beg him to be precise. Yes, in September, at the end of August last year, we called on Andrej Babiš and Jaroslav Faltýnek to give up their parliamentary mandate - not because they are electoral leaders, we did not talk about this at all, but because they did not burden the Chamber of Deputies with their case these last weeks. We considered it very likely that they would be elected. At that time, we knew what preferences they had, that they were the leaders of their candidates in their electoral regions, and that the new House would certainly come back to this. The moment they said no, we stopped. We are not at all, Mr President - now I do not know how to turn to you... [[You can go straight ahead.]] So, directly, Mr. Chairman, that's just not true. If we are to be correct and accurate and want to interpret or quote the positions of other political parties, please be precise. The reason was that it was five or six weeks before the end of the parliamentary term and we did not want to burden the House of Deputies' negotiations. When the gentlemen said no, we didn't go back to that with the fact that the new Chamber of Deputies would definitely come back to that. On the contrary, I am glad that President Vondráček said so. It's just a drawing of his way of thinking. I'm not gonna interpret it for him, that's his business. Only the facts again - we have already voted on this once, and President Vondráček has avoided the vote. I say that correctly, Mr President, directly. This is also a position - legitimate - that the Member does not take part in the vote in the Chamber of Deputies. And to President Bartoš, through you. I don't think that's really possible. When you're on TV, political questions are being dealt with, and there's always the party you speak for. You may be there next time as chairman of the Public Administration Committee, but it will always be written by the President of the Pirates. That's just the way it is. And it's just that the person who's performing will know when he's speaking for the House. But I think Mr. Vondráček spoke for himself, possibly for the YES movement. I did not understand that the entire Chamber of Deputies has the same opinion as President Vondráček. I have a completely different opinion. But when we discuss this in plenary, then we will confront again what we have already said about the question, because, as I said before, the screen recordings are very good, but at the same time a dangerous thing. Anything you say in this microphone can and will be used against you in any other debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-002-001.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show. It's not like that. I'll keep going. Opening point
