ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u1	23. Government bill amending Act No. 435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision (Health Services Act), as amended /German press 1072/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government and this proposal submitted, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will present Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u2	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Members of Parliament... Now I have a little different paper than I wanted. [[The secretary leaves the speaker's desk to the newsstand and takes another piece of paper.]] Well, that'll be a little better, thank you. This proposal for an amendment to the Employment Act and the Health Services Act regulates a comprehensive system change of legislation in the field of employment of people with disabilities. It is the result of long negotiations with organisations that employ disabled people, but especially those that, of course, employ as they should. This is mainly about the clear separation and conceptual modulation of the free and protected labour market. In fact, we want to prevent abuse of the employment of disabled people. We want only to be supported by those who actually employ disabled persons, who are properly investigated and who do not abuse State aid. So there is the introduction of an institute of employer recognition for employers in the protected labour market in the form of an agreement always concluded with the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic, through which the support goes, and a new indication of the contributions provided to those employers. At the same time, the overall limit of the so-called replacement is adjusted. Again, in order to prevent abuse, to prevent the state supporting a company that only actually lets products flow through it, on which in fact the disabled did not work at all or almost at all. It's about the so-called over-face. At the same time, we are introducing the possibility of eliminating the rigidity of the law of remission of the condition of debtlessness, because we are actually forgetting that some protected workshop actually forgets to send insurance contributions in time, there are small amounts, the delay is in order of three days, and then they will not receive support for the next time, because it simply does not allow even the ridiculous sums and the really ridiculous omissions to be excused. I would just like to say that the Social Policy Guarantee Committee has adopted a resolution recommending to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this government bill as submitted by the Government. So I'm asking you to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u3	I thank the Minister for her opening words. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The resolution of this committee was then delivered to you as House Press 1072/1. I now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee on Social Policy, Mr Zdeněk Soukup, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and, if necessary, to justify the amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I am pleased that the chairman of the meeting understood how it was that the terms would not be confused. I must say before I read the justification or the resolution that she represented me at the committee's meeting, because I was missing for health reasons, Radka Maxová. So the resolution is basically written on Radka Maxová, and I'm presenting it. But I must read it as the resolution has been voted. I mean, it's not some confusion of terms, I'm not confusing sexual orientation. Thus the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy of the 53rd meeting held on 1 June 2017 on the Government Bill amending Act No.435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and Act No.372/2011 Coll., on Health Services and the Conditions of Provision, as amended, is the House Press 1072. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Petr Hůrka, the report by Mrs Radka Maxová and after the debate by the Committee on Social Policy of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, first recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its consent to the Government Bill amending Act No.435/2004 Coll., on Employment, as amended, and Act No.372/2011 Coll., on Health Services and Conditions for Provision, as amended. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the Committee's opinion to the Chamber of Deputies meeting - I do so - and, in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical changes and adjustments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u5	I thank the honourable Member and we are glad that nothing changes with him. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please, Madame, you have the floor first in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The discussions with employers who employ people with disabilities show many of the problems that the Minister has already spoken about and which this amendment concerns. The employment and support of employers who employ people with disabilities or disabled persons should be aimed at integrating those persons into the life of society and, even in certain adjustments to their employment, they could be employable in the free labour market. This should be the main objective of helping people, for example, to get a small job adjustment, to be employed in the free labour market, and to make basically a living for the employer. Of course, the State also supports the employment of those persons who need the creation of protected jobs by means of aid, which is both investment in the establishment of such a protected post, and then it is such operating costs that may partly help to cover the costs of operating such a job. Furthermore, employers have additional benefits and thus are tax discounts depending on whether they employ disabled people in a particular category of this disability. As has already been said, it is necessary to control the so-called replacement performance, where the so-called over-facture can also be used frequently in the use of these funds provided by the State. The control by the state of these possibilities of using replacement performance is quite complicated and it can be said that it can never be completely perfect. If we look at the development of expenditure in this area, in 2008 the state helped employers who employ people with disabilities, with an amount of over CZK 2 billion - I have the whole table with me - in 2016 it was already CZK 4.95 billion. Of course, it is a good thing when the state acts socially responsible and helps these employers and, above all, those with disabilities, but the paradox is that even with such a high increase in expenditure by the state, there has not been any significant increase in the employment of disabled people, that is a real paradox. Another area on which it is good to focus is public procurement, because these employers apply for public procurement and, for reasons where they can benefit from subsidies to employ people with disabilities, they can offer an extremely low bid price, which they cannot always justify properly, and then the market is distorted, the market is distorted and the money is drained where there is no need, or even not used properly for the benefit of people with disabilities. There is often so-called discrimination in reverse, when employers of healthy persons are evicted from contracts, but on the other hand these prices are indeed lower than the actual market of the employer, the actual income of sales. This means that the subsidy will also cover the money that the employer will not actually make. I believe that the Minister has spoken to us here that this amendment has taken place during discussions with associations representing disabled people and also with employers' associations. It is also important, of course, to look at the development of funds in all social feelings, the development of funds that are provided throughout this area. Some companies can be socially responsible, and they can also employ disabled people in the form of benefits by actually employing them. It is a very sad finding that a negative mark in this area is obtained by the state and its organisational components, which do not fulfil this social responsibility to citizens as I would have imagined. So I believe that it is important to proceed conceptually, to ensure that the aid is balanced and that the funds are indeed in favour of people with disabilities and not to distort the labour market in the field of contracts. It is also good to be inspired in neighbouring countries, which have a very well developed way of classifying people with disabilities and also their return to the labour market, for example, first in the form of rehabilitation, which is a completely different chapter, and then employment for a protected and free labour market, when the employee earns his own money. The form of benefits is a very welcome way for an employer to show his social responsibility. Finally, I would like to point out that I also have information that there is preparation, or that there is some preparation of the social enterprise law, and on the basis of a debate at a forum, I have heard great reservations from employers who employ people with disabilities against the parameters of this upcoming social enterprise law and social enterprise. It could ultimately harm employers and, above all, those with disabilities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u7	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Miroslav Opálka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, it does not happen often, but I must say that I could sign the words of my colleague Chalánková. You know, we've been discussing this year's amendment to the Employment Act for the fourth time in this parliamentary term for the seventeenth time. It must be said that the employers of the disabled expected a bigger amendment, but I think the House has met them many times in this parliamentary term, and I would say that they are already becoming disabled in some cases better off than graduates without practice or women after parental leave or seniors in the pre-retirement age. We're gonna have to balance. The expectations of all the disabled employers were not fulfilled, they followed the path of a compromise. And I think that tightening up the conditions for protected employment, clarifying the situation with the issue of sickness benefits, but also the possibility of reducing the hardness of the law when one day decides essentially a few hours whether the company by not asking for or proving in time what it has is actually going to fail is very necessary. That is why there has also been no other major amendment from the committee, because it was clear to us that this compromise agreement is the maximum possible that we can approve in this parliamentary term, and that is why the committee is proposing this draft government law to you for approval. I'd just like to take a breather of the fact that we really aren't able to find a system that, to the max, I'd almost want to make a hundred percent effort to prevent some entrepreneurs from taking advantage of this system. And this is not only on the issue of substitute delivery, which the proposal also returns to, but it is on the issue of job creation benefits, job maintenance benefits. From my point of view, we have also increased our employment contributions, so from this point of view, this practice is becoming quite lucrative in some cases, and on the other hand, when we look at them, they work for us in different fields, from manufacturing especially for manufacturing disability teams to services, it is necessary to clean up hospitals, or the specifics that are now going to the fore, and if we get to the bill, then I will still talk about it, that is for various security forces. And especially the private ones where they push those prices so low, there's basically nowhere to back up. So from this point of view, I am glad that this law will bring about some greater order, and I believe that we will also approve it at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. Before we move on to the detailed debate to which Mr Zavadil is the first to report, I ask, who else is reporting to the general debate? Mr. Chairman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u10	I would just like to propose in the general debate, as at the previous point, that we reduce the deadline for the third reading to seven days from the submission of the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u11	Mr rapporteur, do you want to respond? [[Yes.]] Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u12	It's not customary, but I would like to support the proposal to shorten the deadline. Because, as has already been said here, the proposal, or rather, the resulting material that we have on the table, is, I would say, the result of the task force's work, which met regularly at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. I also took part in this work as an observer of the Social Policy Committee. And I don't think there's a dispute at all, no problem at all. I would like to appreciate - I myself think that in a similar way other similar laws should arise as important as the law that deals with this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u13	Thank you to the rapporteur. If no one else applies to the general debate, I will end the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. I do not see the proposal for a return to the guarantee committee for a renegotiation, and I am therefore initiating a detailed debate, which Mr Zavadil entered first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u14	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to my amendment to this press under number 6618, which is inserted into the system. You have a very detailed evaluation of this amendment and justification in the materials under this number in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. I ask, who else is reporting for a detailed debate? If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. I will engage and vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline for the third reading to seven days, as President Sklenák has suggested. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[Again, the sound gong sounds to call the Members to the Hall. The President is waiting for the necessary number of Members to meet.]] Unfortunately, we're still not in a position to settle. [[The President is still waiting for the necessary number of Members.]] This is President Stanjura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u16	Let's try to go back in time today, around 11:00. Somehow, Ivan Pilný, Minister of Finance, stands in my position today and says, "We have dozens of more important laws here!" Where are the coalition MPs?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u17	Yes, there... [[Some Members loudly express their opinion on the absence of members of the government coalition.]] Please don't shout. If you want to report, get to the point. Well, since we're not in a position to settle, I'm interrupting the House meeting by 5:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-017-023.u18	Good afternoon, my dear colleagues, we will continue to discuss the subject of the amendment to the Employment Act. There we concluded a detailed debate and final words, and we will vote on shortening the deadline for the third reading to seven days, as President Sklenák suggested. There's a request for everyone to check out, so I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. Before the number of people is settled, I will read the apologies that have been added here in the meantime. Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes until 18.00 for reasons of work, Mr Okamura apologises from 16.45 for reasons of discussion, Mr Augustin Karel Andrle Sylor apologizes today until 19.00 for family reasons, Mr Květa Matušovská apologizes from 17.00 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologises from 16.30 Radek Vondráček of work, Mr Jiří Zlatuška apologizes today from 16.15 for reasons of work, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologises until the end of today's meeting day, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologises from 16.30 and tomorrow from 9.00 to 15.00 for reasons of work, Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes from 16.30 for reasons of work, Ms Radka Maxová apologizes from 17.00 to the end of the sitting day, Mrs Pavla Golasowská apologises from 16.15 to the end of the sitting day for personal reasons and from 16.30 for reasons of work. Those were note cards. Since the House is a quorum, we will vote on a reduction in the deadline for the third reading to seven days. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It's a 58 vote. 93 Members and Members are registered, for 83, against 7. The proposal has been adopted and I am ending second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
