ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-014-007.u1	7. Government bill on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended (Law on the Protection of the Monument Fund) /Smummal print 666/ - second reading Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down! I understand that if... Vice-President, President-in-Office of the KDU-ČSL Club. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-014-007.u2	Good evening again, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to propose, on behalf of two clubs, the KDU-ČSL and the ANO movement, that the House continue to act after 7 p.m. until this point 7 is discussed and 53 thereafter. Procedurally and meritorly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-014-007.u3	I understand this proposal, and because it is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. And the way I'm gonna check you out first. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide on the proposal of the KDU-ČSL and the ANO movement that we will discuss this point and point 53 after the 19th hour. I've started voting number 294 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 294, out of 107 present for 32, versus 39. The motion was not accepted. So we can continue. I thank the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman and the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Roman Procházka, who is the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, for being at the rapporteur's table. Let me point out that we have interrupted Mrs Chalánková's speech. She doesn't want to finish her original performance. So we're going to continue with the other parties in the debate, so that... Now I've erased Mrs. Strnadlová and I'm asking... No, okay. In that case, we continue with Mrs Nina Nováková's speech, but she is not present, so she is failing at the end of the enrollment. And before us is the speech in the general debate by Mrs Jana Lorencová, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. [[Big noise in the hall.]] I will wait, Madame, before I give you my word to reassure the House. There. Again, ladies and gentlemen, I ask for peace of mind. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-014-007.u4	Mr President, colleagues, for a long time I have followed the efforts of owners of cultural monuments to save and reconstruct our ancestors' legacy while meeting the requirements of conservation care. Very often, however, there is a conflict between the ideas, or rather the requirements of conservationists and interests of owners who want to live in a baroque house, but certainly not in the state in which the Baroque house was built, i.e. in a state from the 17th century. We all know the cases where the monument care and the construction office will allow a supermodern building to be built in the middle, the investor will pay hundreds of thousands for projects in good faith, and when the construction proceedings are initiated, activists or other parties will appear who will start protesting against the construction. As part of various appeals, the project will end on ice after a few years and the investor can subtract the millions that are then required by the state. It is also often the case that professional conservationists working at the National Monument Institute issue an expert opinion within the administrative procedure, but the executive official at the Department of Monument Care of the local authority, who is not a monument expert, does not take into account these expert opinions at all and gives a decision in complete violation of the opinion of the experts. I expected that the Government's proposal for a law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund, which happens to be a coincidence, led by the House press with a symbolic number of 666, will eliminate these and many other problems, or at least attempt to eliminate them. Officials of the Ministry of Culture prepare the memorial law for almost 20 years at various intervals. The submitted version of the law began to prepare already under Nečasův' government. I think that such a large period of time should be sufficient for a civil servant to make the bill a modern law. The Czech Chamber of Architects was one of the professional organizations that were part of the external commentary procedure. However, in January last year, the Chamber issued a statement stating that instead of defining values and rational and effective means of protecting them, the draft law is a very comprehensive and inconspicuous standard focusing on detailed descriptions of partial activities and the comprehensive regulation of certain professions, that architectural or design works are not sufficiently formulated in the draft law, that there is a lack of sensitive interpretation of monuments in connection with the incompressible development of contemporary civilization and culture, that the bill focuses solely on the maintenance and preservation of conservation of conservation protected objects and ignores the fact that immovable cultural monuments are being used by people and in this respect the demands for their real functionality are placed on them. Moreover, this professional organisation has stated - and please allow me to quote literally from their statement: We applied comments in the framework of the commentary procedure to the draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund. However, due to the importance of the law, in our view, their settlement took place rapidly and under time pressure. Finally, in the external commentary procedure, the support of the law was withdrawn. Another of the professional organizations that criticize the course of preparation and the government bill itself is the Association for the Protection and Development of the Cultural Heritage of the Czech Republic. In addition to some 80 comments, which, according to my information, may not be an exact number, the association passed on to the Ministry of Culture sufficiently in advance before the meeting of the Legislative Council of the Government, and then even to the head of the Prime Minister's advisors Vladimír Špidl, points out that in the draft law, the Czech Chamber of Architects is neglected completely, which is highlighted by the Czech Chamber of Architects. The law protects only individual monuments, their physical nature, the quality of their reconstruction ensures a constructional historical survey. But it does not protect their environment, their urban position and contact with the surrounding area. The bill ignores the exploration of urban values of the territory, without which it is not possible to ensure the territorial protection of the city, the status of its dominant and the value of individual monuments. The results of the urban survey are a prerequisite for the functional connection of the conservation and construction law, the law on territorial processing, are the basis for the regulatory plan. The link between the two laws would allow a substantial reduction in the discussion of project documentation. In the case of the processing of regulatory plans, which would also be based on an analysis of urban values, a substantial part of the discussion of both territorial and construction proceedings would be dismissed. The non-intentionally long discussion of the project documentation is the result of insufficient planning documentation. Regulatory plans would provide clear investment conditions for investment projects and would reduce substantially any corruption. The draft law now offers subsidies for maintenance and owners of unprotected buildings in the landmark area. The idea, in principle, is good, but it can have negative effects. Since the law cannot distinguish the cultural value of these houses, and it is dependent on their work in the composition of the city, this will preserve the objects that harm the city. The design of the conservation law offers protection plans, but does not specify their content. Since it does not require the processing of protection plans for the entire territory, the scope is left to local authorities, the protection plans cannot be part of the documentation under the construction law. As pointed out by other professional organisations, the Association for Construction Historical Surveys, the draft law provides for a disproportionate increase in the number of proceedings listed at the Ministry of Culture at first instance from the eight to nineteen. Discriminatory is also a modification of so-called regulated activities, particularly for processors of constructional historical surveys, are placed unreasonablely high demands and are threatened with draconian sanctions. On the other hand, the proposal does not take into account the extremely serious issue of looting archeological heritage by so-called detectors, the negative consequences of which have been known for many years and have caused strong regulation in most European countries. [[18.40 hours]] Thus, the Act on the Protection of the Heritage Fund does not bring about an improvement in the protection of cultural heritage, nor does it provide for strengthening the legal certainty of owners. It brings confusion into the system of monument care and prevents rational protection and restoration of monuments. The comprehensive, complex and bureaucratic law of today is making the situation worse and more difficult. It also increases the costs of owners and companies. Cargo is, for example, a protection plan, § 32 to 34, a territory with excluded archaeological findings, § 38 to 40, compulsory processing of constructional historical survey of cultural monuments under all circumstances, § 48. The law reduces the legal certainty of owners. The state may remove the already duly approved modifications of the monuments if it wishes, pursuant to § 63 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) and (f). The public authorities, for example, have legally authorised the construction of the soil with the vikyrs. But if they change their mind, they can order her to be removed. At whose expense? The Act also misinterprets the various professional activities and documentation that are carried out during the restoration of monuments, so that these documentation cannot be carried out in large part at all, for example under Sections 47, 49 and 73. In doing so, however, the administrative procedure will require them. This will create confusion and chaos and extend administrative deadlines. This will have a negative impact on all participating owners, experts and the official apparatus and will make it more difficult to restore the conservation fund. The opposite should be the objective of the law. The law is discriminatory against professional professions. Some he regulates, some he doesn't. These regulated include, for example, restorers, building historians and archaeologists. She's bullying them right now. The Ministry of Culture is attempting to claim before the Chamber of Deputies that the law has been properly recalled and discussed with interested parties. It's not true. The comments were sold, with restorers, processors of constructional historical surveys, or with professionals of monument care, for example, no one was dealing with them. Ladies and gentlemen, from my point of view, however, I am now getting to the most problematic part of the bill's proposal. Although most of us are not conservationists, we certainly agree that the concept of cultural monument is a cornerstone of monument care and its clear interpretation must be indisputable. According to the wording of the Act on Cultural Monuments No. 22/1958 Coll. cultural monuments were not only individual objects, but also monument reservations. The present Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, hereinafter referred to as the Charter, states in Article 35 that, in exercising its rights, no one must threaten or harm cultural monuments above the level laid down by law. Thus, in historical terms, no one must harm not only individual objects, but neither the whole, i.e. landmark zones and conservation. The entire historical territory is thus protected under the Charter. According to Article 2 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above, it is necessary to assess whether the aid is compatible with the internal market and whether the aid is compatible with the internal market. 4 of the bill is a monument reserve of the territory as a whole with an extraordinary concentration of interconnected cultural monuments. It follows that the bill perceives cultural monuments as individual objects or sets of objects, as an example, that when it comes to the farmhouse, the main building, the storehouse and the stables are the set. The territory, such as the historical cores of the cities of the government declared a monument reserve, will not be a cultural monument. The definition of the cultural monument of the basic concept of state conservation is now contrary to the concept of the Charter and is also reduced in contrast to its traditional concept, it does not include the historical cores of the city, which were considered a conservation reserve by the Czech Government, nor does the so-called landmark zones announced by the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room.]] Again, according to the current interpretation, cultural monuments of both the zone and the reservation are cultural monuments, but they will no longer be cultural monuments according to the design of the law. I support my claim with other provisions, which in § 19 para. 1 of the draft law states that the proceedings for the declaration of cultural monument are led by the Ministry. It follows that what the government is declaring today, such as the historical reserves already mentioned, are not cultural monuments. It is unacceptable for terminology not to be harmonised in such a basic term as the concept of cultural monument. It is essential that the terminology of the bill be identical to the terminology of the Charter. In my opinion, and in this case, I would be interested in the opinion of the President of the Constitutional Committee, the terminology of the draft law and the terminology of the Charter should be identical, they should not differ in anything. I am convinced, and I am sure we agree that it is not possible to narrow down the concept of cultural monument, which is a key concept for conservation care. If we accept that landmarks and landmarks are not cultural monuments according to the bill, then no one must threaten or harm cultural monuments in connection with the Charter, but everyone can endanger and damage monuments and landmarks. This provision will cause many litigation between investors and the State. The terminology of the draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund is therefore contrary to the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, which is part of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. I know we're running out of time, so I'm gonna try to cut my act short. In my opinion, it will be more feasible to return the law to recast. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just presented you with a rather small list of the shortcomings that the Government's bill has. I am aware that the adoption of the law is a government task and is presented by our coalition partner. However, I believe that we cannot sacrifice our country's cultural heritage just because we have some coalition agreements. The Minister should realise that we, Members of Parliament, are not civil servants, and we cannot put the bill in order for his subordinates, in the form in which he should be. We are only supposed to handle partial matters within the framework of the amendments. So to rephrase 80 out of 140 paragraphs, it's probably too much power. If the existing law of 1987 is still valid for another four years, the conservation care will certainly not collapse. Moreover, I think it is better that, even at the price of the current House not sending the law to third reading, Minister Daniel Herman and his officials have the task of redoing the law so that it is law-modern, legal modern regulation, without defects. After familiarizing with the comments of the expert organisations, I note that the length of preparation of the draft law does not correspond to its quality. I know that I am not the only coalition MP who has a problem with the bill. I therefore say that I will not support the draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund, and I recommend either to return it as a whole to the petitioner for revision, or to return it to the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Regional Development for Processing. Thank you for your patience.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-014-007.u5	Thank you, Mrs Jana Lorencová. The next one in the debate is Mrs Věra Kovářová. And I'm warning you that after her performance, I'm going to interrupt the item and deal with what might still happen at this meeting. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-014-007.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you my amendment, which is intended to include in the bill the term 'archaeological finding made up of military material'. These specific material findings have been the object of preying amateur search engines for many years, often very valuable historical objects are collected in private collections without knowledge or registration. They also become the subject of trade. These findings also include weapons, dangerous ammunition and ammunition that document mainly war events from 1939 to 1945 on our territory. Holding such objects may also cause damage to the security of the State. From nearly 30 years of experience, private collections often end up unknown after the end of the activities of their owners. Our society is thus losing evidence of modern history that today marks our society. Archaeological findings consisting of material of a military nature produced after 1890 are: (a) firearms, regardless of caliber, including ammunition, ammunition and accessories; (b) cold weapons, including accessories; (c) land vehicles and tanks, including parts and equipment thereof, armored or unarmed, armed or unarmed, equipped or not equipped to launch ammunition and ammunition; (d) vessels, including accessories and equipment, special equipment and equipment; [[Both level and subcutaneous]] (e) aircraft, including aircraft engines, equipment, equipment, accessories and equipment; (f) weapon systems, including accessories and equipment; (g) armored or protective equipment; (h) equipment, equipment and items of everyday use of military or armed forces; (i) equipment used for the control of fire, alarm or warning devices, routing devices and devices, countermeasure devices, including accessories; (j) coupling material and technology, including accessories and equipment; (k) guidance and navigation equipment, including accessories and equipment; (l) imaging, detection and tracking equipment, including accessories and equipment. The selection of the 1890 border year for the definition of military material is based on the provisions of the Annex to Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on weapons and ammunition, part one - Weapons types, item 22, Historical weapon. A weapon made before 31 is considered a historical weapon. 12. 1890, including all major arms. The internal organizational component of the Ministry of Defence established for the preservation of the collection of a museum character is the Military Historical Institute Prague. He continuously and purposefully deals with the collection of written and material monuments to the history of Czech and Czechoslovak military, professionally cares for these funds and collections, researches, processes and makes them available to the public. The Military Historical Institute presents the results of work in museum and exhibition activities, in book and journal publications, at scientific conferences and seminars, providing historical services to military departments, institutes and facilities in public services. The Military Historical Institute is, as an internal organizational component of the Ministry of Defence, the institution which, by its very nature, deals with archeological material of a military nature. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-014-007.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. And I'm asking Mr. Uhlík if his performance is less than five minutes, because we need to deal with something. If he doesn't, I won't give him a word. I'm sorry, Junka, my bad. [[Junek's envoy is closing in on the pitch.]] All right. If that's it, Mr. Ambassador, I don't want to interrupt you later, but I'm gonna have to interrupt at 7:00 anyway. So if it's longer... [[Junek, with a gesture, gives up the show.]] All right. In that case, Mrs Kovářová was the last to speak on this point. I will adjourn point 7, discussing the Government's draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund, print 666. I thank the rapporteur, thank the Minister, and interrupt this point in the general debate. On the basis of our vote that we will not discuss laws after the 19th hour that took place a little while ago, we must deal with the agenda for our meeting. On the basis of the proposal by the Members' Clubs, there is a procedural proposal to exclude all outstanding points from this meeting. Okay. I'll check you out and ask you for a new registration... And we already have the necessary quorum to decide on this procedural proposal. On the basis of this proposal by the Members' Clubs, I shall vote in vote number 295 on the elimination of all outstanding points in this meeting. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 295 of the 77th, for 58, against 12. The motion was accepted. In that case, I can conclude this meeting and tell you that we will meet on the basis of the decision of the Organising Committee, which will meet on 23 March. You will receive an invitation to the next meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Have a good evening, have a good day and I look forward to seeing you.
