ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u1	55. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016 /German press 996/ - second reading This item was dealt with on 8 June 2017, when we interrupted it in the general debate. I ask that the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek and Foreign Committee rapporteur Leo Luzar take the position at the rapporteur's table. Let me reiterate that this House press has been ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee and the Committee on European Affairs, and the Committee's resolutions have been delivered as House prints 996/1 and 996/2. Their content has been introduced to the House by the rapporteurs - both Mr Luzar and Mr Benešík. We will now continue the interrupted general debate and find ourselves back when Mr Luzar was interrupted in his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, if you wish to continue, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, dear government, ladies and gentlemen, I thought I would save myself a lot of words. Unfortunately, it has turned out that this may not be as I imagined it would be, and so allow me to pick up some of the pieces where I ended up in the last debate and introduce you to the things relating to the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and Canada.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u3	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, before you proceed, I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down, and if you have something important to deal with, you will go to the lobby to discuss. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u4	This agreement, which is now being presented to us, has quite a rich history. Last time I spoke about what is probably the cause of this creation. I will say briefly that the effort to adopt the TTIP, which means the North Atlantic agreement between the United States and the European Union, has met with quite a strong and great opposition not only between commercial activists but also in the fields of law, politics, history... [[Minister Zaoralek is passing by with the words: Take it wide.]] Yes, I'll take it wide.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u5	Minister, I will ask you if you wish to discuss this on a microphone and not disturb Mr Luzar in his speech. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u6	I'll take that remark from the Minister that I should take it wide. Yes, nature calls, needs a bathroom, I understand. This agreement is based on how the preparation of the TTIP agreement between the European Union and the United States of America was conducted, as it encountered the great reservations that were made. The authors of a similar agreement, which was in preparation between the European Union and Canada, decided to divide the big agreement, which is called CETA, which will be the third point of this negotiations, into two parts. [[15.10 hours]] The first part that we're discussing right now, I'm working on calling it the friend part, is the part of the contract that's part of the comprehensive agreement, the way these contracts are submitted, i.e. contains both the territorial and the material part, but does not contain the commercial part. The business part is set aside and given as a separate material for discussion. In a way, this is intended to create the impression of a certain easier passage of these contracts in the context of negotiations. It draws attention to this Article 10 of this Treaty, which is talking about business matters. And in this Treaty, it is also said that by approving this Strategic Partnership Agreement, these parties undertake to continue trade negotiations and - I quote - they cooperate to promote sustainable development, growth of mutual trade and investment for mutual benefit, as provided for in the comprehensive agreement on economic and trade cooperation. In other words, it creates a pre-space, foresaw the approval of the trade agreement, i.e. The CETA business. That is also why I consider this Treaty to be part of a comprehensive whole of the Treaty between the European Union and Canada, which has been artificially divided, to create here this impression of easier acceptance after how hard the TTIP Treaty hit. In this treaty, although I have already mentioned it, it is also said that we are friends. I agree with that. The Foreign Minister Zaorálek has already said here once that, unfortunately, he does not contain matters relating to a visa requirement. It does not contain things that are important to us and which have already shown quite a lot of problems in the past between the perception of cooperation between Canada and the Czech Republic, namely by the European Union, when unilaterally imposed sanctions against the Czech Republic not as a member of the European Union, namely the whole of the European Union, but only against the selected states of the European Union, Canada considers it a normal diplomatic procedure with which, of course, we as a Czech Republic or as a member of the European Union must not agree, we do not want and cannot, yet the other large states of the European Union have lifted their finger to the maximum and said, "Kanado, you should not," but they did not stand up for us to defend what Canada has done, unilaterally restricting their friendliness towards one of the states of the European Union, namely the Czech Republic. We all remember, and I don't think it's worth discussing the history here. I merely point out that not all the relations between Canada and the Czech Republic, now I am excluding the European Union, have always been, say, such beautiful, friendly ones. I'm going back to that word again. Because there's no other way to call the deal. This agreement keeps saying that we have common interests. All articles show that we have a common goal, a common interest. However, I am not firmly convinced that this is really the case and that the European Union as a whole has a common interest. As Canada's interest certainly is, I have no doubt here about Canada's intention to conclude this contract. Canada, as a sovereign entity, has an interest in penetrating European markets, and it may also be vital to it after the problems it is experiencing with the trade agreement or with the renewed nature agreement, namely NAFTA between Mexico, the United States and Canada. That is why it is quite important for Europe and I understand why it is pushed to ratify, the accelerated ratification of this Treaty. But what I don't understand is that it's a kind of hypocrisy that leads us to put forward, in fact, one unnecessary contract, and the other, which we care very much about, to discuss. I find Article 14 to be smiling, which is the welfare of citizens. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, in this article, the European Union and Canada undertake to give citizens well-being. What everyone imagines under it can be quite interesting. This Article 14 shall have three points. Paradoxically, all the articles in this Treaty have so few points and are so empty and inexplicable that it is only smiling to approve this Treaty. For the sake of interest, I will quote this article on well-being here: the Parties are aware that it is important to extend and deepen mutual dialogue and cooperation across a wide range of issues that affect the quality of life of their citizens, the wider international community and in this spirit support and facilitate dialogue, consultation and, if possible, cooperation within existing and emerging issues of common interest that affect the well-being of citizens. - I'd like sometime to have a linguist translate this into a Czech language, what it actually means. This meaningless text is poured from page to page and really, if the author was paid for the press page, he came to his own. But there's no other reason than a declaration here in this, unfortunately. Because both Canada and the European Union accept the common features of a democratic state and do not need to make sure of each other about these issues and matters. We commit ourselves in Article 17 to disaster resistance and emergency management. I think, of course, that is in the interests of both states, but the wording of this point, which has one paragraph: To minimise the impact of natural disasters and man-made disasters and increase the resilience of society and infrastructure, the Parties confirm their joint commitment to promote prevention, preparedness and measures in the field of response and recovery, including in the case of bilateral and multilateral cooperation. - What can one say about this article? Absolutely unspecific statement: Yes, we are interested, and we may be working with you, perhaps not, and maybe we will invite someone else - but in general, not saying anything. Indeed, this entire treaty is full of such declarations of nothing-speaking statements. I had the opportunity to read bilateral agreements with other countries between the European Union and others that we had ratified in the past, but none of them were full of such meaningless, meaningless wordings and phrases. From this title, the idea of the author is still ringing in my head, why he submitted such a treaty, why he gave it to discuss the European Union, why the European Union, in its great wisdom, has even admitted that it is discussing such a treaty. And again, I'm saying yes, it's because she wasn't supposed to be alone. She was supposed to be connected to the business part. Because if you look at the business part, and I'm going to talk about it when it comes to it, these points are an adequate answer in that business part, and you're able to bring it together and create one common agreement and an agreement between the European Union and Canada. [[15.20 hours]] From that title, I have no choice but to draw your attention to the fact that this treaty has no content. This treaty, both from the European Union's point of view and from Canada's point of view, does not have any substantive content that our citizens, if any, would have. The citizens of Canada, somehow helped. We do not commit ourselves on either of the points, neither we nor Canada, nor any other European Union countries, to anything concrete. Everything remains in the free field of explanation - we are interested, we want, maybe - but there is no specific issue on either of the points concerning clearly declared objectives. Apart from, of course, the general ones that we generally recognise and which have been referred to for a long time, such as the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organised Crime and similar matters, to which Canada and the European Union are bound by other international treaties. For the sake of interest, I will mention Article 22, which is very up-to-date. This article relates to an area that our media have been very intensively informing for the past month, and I would like to say that the American media have been informing Donald Trump in more detail since the presidential elections, and this is a cybercrime area. We even went so far in this area that at the Ministry of the Interior we created a special department dealing with the detection of cybercrime. Even the latest newspaper articles talk about recruiting a large group of specialists to deal with this area. This Article 22 states: "The parties acknowledge that cybercrime is a global problem that calls for a global solution. The Parties therefore strengthen cooperation with a view to preventing cybercrime and combating this crime through the exchange of information, practical knowledge in accordance with their laws and laws. The Parties shall endeavour, where appropriate, to cooperate in order to provide assistance and support to other States in establishing effective legislation on policies and procedures to prevent cybercrime, to combat it wherever this problem arises. The Parties shall exchange information in the field of education, the training of cybercrime investigators, cybercrime investigation procedures and digital forensic analysis in accordance with their laws and regulations.'; I would like to know in this part how far these parties have cooperated so far. If this Treaty between the European Union and Canada was awaited, how has this matter been dealt with so far? Or, on the contrary, do we suspect that Canada, this Nordic nation, although inhabiting large territories as far as square kilometres are concerned, is the problem or is the source of cybercrime, or is the one from whose territory cybercrime comes and from which should we draw knowledge and experience to combat our cybercrime? I fear that this is not the case and that this point has come here mainly under the pressure of certain fashion and efforts to fulfil a certain extent of the pre-set standard of international treaties. A little more interesting is Article 23, subsequent, i.e. Migration, asylum and border management. This is the article that I have also pointed out from the perspective of visa obligations and what Canada has done towards the Czech Republic and when the European Union has once again shown that it does not care so much about individual states and is unable to stand unitedly for the state that is wronged in the international field in matters that fall within the European Union's work. There is one single point in this article that says: "The Parties confirm their commitment to cooperation and exchange of views in the field of their legislation, in the field of migration. " [[including legal migration, illegal migration, trafficking in human beings, migration and development of asylum, integration, visa and border management]] Here I would really like to know how far it has been progressed in this area of visas. Because I think that in this part of the treaty, we have remained quite alone in front of the creators from Brussels. And I don't even know if our experts from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have consulted this agreement in this section and have contributed to the preparation of these points. Because this is another reservation which is marked by this treaty on my part, that people or officials of Brussels prepared this agreement according to many of the points found in it. Nothing against them, but still, I miss expressing the Czech interest. In the beginning, I said again that the Czech interest that we had with regard to the disputed relations with Canada remained unheard of in the European Union. All the more so when we prepare these contracts with the states, when we have this negative experience from the past, as they have done against the Czech Republic, we should participate intensively in the preparation of such a contract. I'm missing a certain clear statement from the State Department. Yes, in the XY article, we were able to supplement that and that. This is simply what this treaty lacks. I'm going back to why she lacks this: because she was never meant to be like this. It's an artificial creation that only aims to conceal the main purpose of the presentation, the negotiation of the business section. Not one of the points that is here is binding, yet it prepares a prelude for the negotiation of a trade agreement. The trade agreement will be all the more interesting and I look forward to the debate, when I will be able to get you to know it in detail, so I will not be overextend this treaty, let's say declaratory. I just really want to point out that in the time I had the opportunity to read international treaties, I haven't come across a more empty text yet. It is not guided by any attempt at future cooperation, the development of something. Most contracts have an economic subtext of why we want or protective, we want to prevent something. There isn't even half a word in this treaty about these matters. Only and only a declaration. What's interesting is head VI. Political dialogue and consultation mechanisms. These consultation mechanisms here are very interesting because they have the most points. The Article 27, which speaks of mechanisms for consultation, is broken down on about eight or nine pages compared to all other heads and points, because it speaks of the main point. The fact that this treaty will be a pretty good travel agent for officials who will take care of this future cooperation. Top meetings held once a year or under mutual agreement alternately in the Union and Canada. Meeting at the level of foreign ministers. Consultation at ministerial level on policy issues of common interest. Consultation at the level of senior officials and at the working level on issues of common interest or information on cooperation in the field of major developments at national or international level. Support for the exchange of delegations of the European Parliament and of the Parliament of Canada. The Joint Ministerial Committee. A Joint Ministerial Committee is hereby established. It shall be chaired jointly by the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Canada, the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. It shall meet once a year on the basis of an agreement. He's receiving an annual report. [[15.30 hours]] However, the basis of these points is that variously numerous and more numerous delegations on the basis of a contract that has no specific point, no concrete tangible interest, will ride, consult, consult and actually do nothing in a way. Since this article speaks of political dialogue: the Parties seek to strengthen dialogue and consultation in an effective and pragmatic way in order to support their emerging relations, further deepen them and promote their common interests and values through multilateral commitments. That's a sentence! This is a classic example of an official declaration: we would like to, we want everything, but we don't know. But that doesn't prevent us from meeting, not telling ourselves that we don't really know, but we do. It is simply a treaty that may not even be possible to adopt a positive position with the best of will. It is, of course, up to you, colleagues, how far you will perceive this need. At the very least, I think it's a level that would be worthy of this treaty. But I understand the translator. What I do not understand, however, is that there is little talk of Czech interests. I'm glad the Minister has already sat down. I hope I have given him enough space, and I will be glad to hear how far this treaty will be able to protect Czech interests so that what has been repeated in the past in relations with Canada and the Czech Republic regarding visa problems does not happen again. Yes, they were provoked by an increased request or an increased request from Czech citizens to stay, work, or other matters in Canada, but the inadequate response to one of the EU states was wrong in my opinion, yet the EU did not take any retaliatory action against Canada outside the raised finger, and I consider that to be a mistake. I expected that there might be an element in this treaty that would forbid this in the future. This means one union, one foreign policy, at least one visa policy, not divided according to whether it is France and Germany on the one hand, or the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary on the other. This is not in this Treaty, although it is presented as a treaty between Canada and the EU. I consider this to be a fundamental problem, apart from the fact that it was pulled out and exposed from the trade contract as a separate contract. I feel a certain obligation to say this here, although it is true that I would be able to shorten my contribution quite a lot, but by one point being a trade agreement between Canada and the EU, and this treaty, as I am stressing again, is interpolating or extracting some of the things from the original agreement, I felt it necessary to inform you about these reservations. I fear that, under the impression of this obligation to the EU, we will vote and not take into account the things that are here. After all, the EU is always right, but the EU knows what it is doing, but the EU is the one we have to listen to, or it will give us sanctions, or it will drive us to court and you, you! I ask, where are the Czech interests, where are the Czech priorities, and, above all, where is the lessons from the past? And that's the question that stays here. I would really like to know how this treaty, Minister, reflects on past developments, that is to say the relations of the Czech Republic - Canada after unilateral steps by Canada towards us, and if our Ministry of Foreign Affairs has at least tried to apply any brakes or things to prevent such actions from being taken by the EU in preparation for the European Union. Minister, thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u7	I also thank you and ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. I do not register any further applications, in which case I conclude the debate and ask for any final words. Is there an interest in the final word? [[Yes.]] Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u8	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you good afternoon. I would like Members to come to the House so that we can vote on this Strategic Partnership Treaty because I have already introduced it here in the House about five times, if I am not mistaken, you can understand that even a person who is committed to discussing this here until the body is torn apart has the idea that it is time for discussion and then it is time to vote on the matter, so I would very much like it if Members returned to the House and if we had finally decided on this Treaty. Because I am convinced that in the case of this contract it is possible to define Czech interest very simply, there is no need to talk about it for so long. And it is as simple as Hamlet says, as lying, and I will be very happy to tell you and tell you this very briefly, and you will vote accordingly in this House. This Strategic Partnership Treaty is declaratory, there is no need to discuss this much, only it would not be good to drop it, because diplomacy has been working for hundreds of years in this way, that one thing is declarations and the other thing is contracts, so that declaration has a purpose, even if it is general, just as it has a sense of trade agreement, which I hope we will discuss today as the other. And I'll tell you the Czech interest that connects the contracts. I'm gonna tell you all of a sudden because I think it's absolutely clear and absolutely accurate. And I wonder who in this House is capable of questioning him. The Czech interest, my friends, is that when this ratifys the EU, its states and the Czech Republic, we, the Czech Republic, are opening up an opportunity to acquire a market without customs, without administrative barriers, a market that is opening up to us, the Czech Republic, a pro-export country whose trade with Canada is growing today, and I hope that in this House everyone wants to grow further, and these treaties allow us to continue this journey. Imagine, I would ask you what is in this treaty or in these treaties against our interests? On the contrary, voting against this treaty or abstaining from the interests of the Czech Republic is against Czech jobs, that is, you understand, against the economy of this country! We're just opening up a stable market. You know, I've already said it here that I've been to Canada, that there are ministers such as the Minister of Industry, Science, Research, everyone has a great interest in the Czech Republic to come, they see us as an industrialised country, they perceive that there's a hydrogen engine and a whole lot of other things that interest them today. They have excellent scientific workplaces in Canada today. For us, this is a huge deal if we can work with them, even on concrete projects. That's what they want, they're ready to come over and talk about it. I don't think we've seen a period of Canada being opened to the Czech Republic in this way lately. There are a number of reasons, and if it was mentioned here in such an ironic way that NAFTA is complicated, I think it's a very simplified vision. Do you understand? This agreement will provide a platform for entrepreneurs in Canada. They are interested in this, and if things need to get complicated elsewhere, the more they use it, of course. It's a huge chance for us. This is simply the clear economic interest of the Czech Republic! I don't understand how anyone can question this, and someone can see this differently. What are we, industrial countries? Are we an export-oriented country? Do we live on how this export grows? We have a very advanced country that works in areas like us, can I name them for you here, and she is willing, ready to work with us, and we are unable to ratify the agreement between Canada and the European Union? I'd rather hear someone tell me why I'm here five times presenting this contract. Oh, my God. Why? Is there anyone here who thinks it's wrong for the Czech Republic? Not to explain why it's wrong to sign. Let someone tell you what's against the Czech Republic, what's against the interests of Czech exports, what's wrong with the Czech jobs in this country! I'm sorry, on the contrary, I think the situation is quite clear. I have no doubt about her. Even if there were once any complications in the visa area, this is what this treaty is dealing with, and even those relationships, specific relationships between people, friends, that is what rules out for situations like this to happen again. [[15.40 hours]] This is where teams to work together in the executive areas of the EU and Canada have been brought down. I don't understand why somebody's dropping this place. I have always been a supporter of parliamentary diplomacy. There were others who said to me: What is the use of Members' travels? It's a waste of money. It's a waste of time. There's no point in anyone communicating with anyone here. So I have been convinced for years that this makes sense, that parliamentary diplomacy is not throwing money away, that it is necessary to communicate, that it is necessary to meet. I never questioned that. Why is the executive questioning the cooperation here? The fact that the political directors are meeting, that the Deputys are working. And why is the declarationary character of the contract being dropped here? After all, the fact that countries are willing to say: this is our common interest. This is the kind of thing that... There's a point. It makes sense in diplomacy. There are so many things today that we can't agree on so easily. So the fact that Canada and I are going to say, "Here we have a common interest, we're able to work here," is something that has value in itself, even symbolic. [[capable of:]] And that's what this particular business agreement is all about. For my part, I don't think I would understand if the Czech House were unable to ratify this. I just wouldn't understand. That would make me feel tragic. So I believe there are plenty of those in this House who will support this strategic agreement, but also the trade agreement, because I have no doubt in my mind that this is the interest of the Czech Republic. And I believe there are enough judges to back it up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u9	Good afternoon. Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur and his final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u10	Thank you for the floor. For the second time, I have witnessed issues in a closed debate in which I cannot respond, so I will not respond to them, Minister. But next time, if you're asking questions, let them answer, too. I want to conclude, as rapporteur, that this Treaty is without scope. Yes, if it's not an assignment, we can debate it, of course we can approve it as meaningless, of course it's an option. But let me say here that I will personally abstain from her, because I do not feel the need to conclude uninhibited contracts. It reminds us a lot of efforts to make Prague here an economic embassy in Brno. Perhaps a little trade between Prague and Brno would develop as well. The illogicality of the fact that two states that have common interests, common direction, common roots, common future feel the need to declare on dozens of sides the same thing that both states feel needed and have in their laws and regulations... I say, I will not abuse the role of rapporteur, Minister, I will be glad if you do not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-002-055.u11	I thank the rapporteur and we will proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. The draft resolutions of both the Foreign Committee and the Committee on European Affairs are identical. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as proposed by the Foreign Committee and the Committee on European Affairs. I am opening the vote on this resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 154, 134 Members and Members, for 104, against 14. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
