ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u1	294. Oral inhalation which are addressed to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the ranking of Members in which they will speak and submit oral interviews first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Government of the Czech Republic, from 14.30 to 16.00. To other members of the government then from 16.00 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I'll read the apologies I've received. From 14.00 a.m. to the end of the day and tomorrow throughout the day Mrs. Jana Lorencová apologises. 23 days. 2. from 13:30 to 4:00 p.m. due to the hearing, Mr Martin Sedlář apologizes. From 14.30 pm to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Miloš Babiš apologizes. Furthermore, from today's meeting from 14.30 pm to the end of the meeting day due to urgent work obligations within the Ministry of Industry and Trade department, Minister Jan Mládek apologizes. And now I give the floor to Mr Jaroslav Holík, who was drawn in the first place to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka, and Mr Marek Černoch will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u2	Dear Prime Minister, East Moravia is building one of the biggest motorway junctions in the future. Currently only D1 comes here, which ends in a dead end, because the continuation continues towards Ostrava, and as far as the continuation to Zlin D55 is concerned, so it stops near the intersection in Kvítkovice and here are starting to form roughly kilometer fronts of cars if they want to continue towards the south. Further development should be bypassing Otrokovic, or bypassing this unfortunate intersection as D55 and continuing towards Slovakia D49. I would like to intercede here for the priority of the Otrokovice bypass and continue southward, because also the passage through the town of Uherské Hradiště, Ostrožská Nová Ves, Uherský Ostroh, Veselí na Moravě, Strážnice, it is simply a disaster. On the contrary, continuing eastward, when we make the highway about 5 km and end up in Fryšták, because the EIA no longer works, I see no use at present. Because drivers going further east, it'll lead them to that four-way road that leads to the center of Zlín, so they'll go from that Fryšták to the ordinary two-way. I'm asking you to give me an explanation on this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u4	Thank you. Hello, Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, allow me to respond to this interview. I, of course, do not want and cannot replace the Minister of Transport. I do not want and cannot replace the Road and Motorway Directorate, which is in charge of preparing these buildings. However, I want to confirm that, as Prime Minister, I am intensively and long-term interested in what the situation looks like from the point of view of the key transport infrastructure in Eastern Moravia as well. The Member mentioned two specific communications. He mentioned the section on the built road D55, specifically around Otrokovice, the southeast bypass, and I will get to it immediately. And if the Member mentioned the D49 Hulín - Fryšták motorway, I must say that both the southeast bypass of Otrokovice and the section Hulín - Fryšták on D49 was the subject of the exception that the government negotiated with the European Commission and where we agreed that it would not be necessary to repeat the entire EIA again, but the verification opinion of the Ministry of Environment is sufficient. This system, which we have agreed, which we have also enacted and which the government has approved, has actually enabled us to issue a verification opinion of the EIA by the Ministry of the Environment for both of these sections, both to bypass Otrokovice and for the first section of D49 Hulín - Fryšták. As regards the situation in particular around Otrokovice, the next stage of the Otrokovice bypass, the construction thus has an EIA opinion issued under Section 23a and at this time the property activity is being completed. I have been informed that there is a problem with the fact that so far all the land under this planned bypass has not been settled. This means, here at the moment, the issue of issuing a building permit and the subsequent start of the construction depends on the completion of the property settlement. The building permit is expected to be issued this year and the construction should therefore be started. As regards the D49 section Hulín - Fryšták, the EIA opinion was also issued on this construction under the scheme § 23a. The document sets further conditions. Noise walls and low-noise asphalt will be necessary. A valid building permit has not yet been issued, depending on the issue of exemptions in specially protected animal species. The construction is expected to be restarted during 2017. Thus, for both of these buildings, which are part of the government's monitored strategic buildings, the Ministry of Transport and the Directorate of Roads and Motorways assumes the start of construction even during this calendar year according to the information I received. As for the following section on D49 Fryšták - Lípa, there is currently an update of the documentation for the zoning decision and subsequently a request for a territorial decision for this construction will be made. With regard to the next section of D49 Lipa - state border, there is the completion of a search study aimed at selecting a route both technically and economically defendable and accessible territory. The project's intention will then be processed for each section. This is the final part of D49, which should be brought to the border with Slovakia. So much very brief information about these buildings. Of course, with regard to other buildings that are implemented in the area of East Moravia or this region, I want to mention the D55 sections or Napajedla - Babice, Babice - Old Town. Intensive project engineering activities continue on both constructions. Constructions could start around 2020. If these two sections of D55 can be implemented, it could significantly relieve the residents along today's I/55 road. I would also like to mention the intensive attention given by the government to the completion of the D1 motorway in sections Přerov - Lipník and Jiříkovice - Přerov. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u5	Thank you, too. I ask whether the Member wishes an additional question. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u6	Prime Minister, thank you for your explanation. But I'm going back to the core again. Currently, it is strict (?) the situation of the continuation of D55, because during the day these roads are completely blocked. So I'd like to challenge you, let's continue intensely to 55 even at the cost of braking 49 because the current proposal, which is to Fryšták, is made a piece of highway into a dead end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u7	Thank you, too, and I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u8	Thank you. I must say that with regard to the construction which the Member prefers, this means the south-east bypass of Otrokovice, i.e. the continuation of the construction of D55, the situation is indeed such that we are already a small part of the completion of the property settlement. I was trying to figure out what the exact land purchase number was. The number is that 98,6 percent of the land is bought out. So we're really close. And so, as I've been informed, there's one sheet of ownership missing, and so here, based on the information from the I.R.S.D., it's being expropriated. So we need to finish this one sheet of ownership, settle the expropriation, and then it should be possible for this structure to be prepared and launched. So far, it is assumed that an application for a building permit for the main route should be submitted in March of this year. Let's see if this ambition in the application for a building permit can be met by the ŘSD. Otherwise, it is calculated that the cost of this part of the bypass should exceed approximately 1.3 billion. Crowns. So it's one of those major investments that's being prepared from the state transport fund. As for the road Hulín - Fryšták, there indeed for many years the state has been trying to get the construction started. It is also about dealing not only with the traffic situation in that part of the region, but also potentially making the Holešov industrial zone available in time. So even from this point of view, the launch and continuation of the construction of D49 will undoubtedly be important. But I think there's a certain hope for that number that concerns the property settlement of the Otrokovic bypass.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u9	Thank you. Mr Marek Černoch will now speak on fraud at social benefits. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, scams on social benefits worth CZK 65 million were discovered in 2014. According to the Labour Office, in 2015, the State wrongly paid more than CZK 100 million. It was 16,680 cases. This was mainly about housing contributions, subsistence allowances, unemployment benefits and parental benefits. The system, the way it's going. Revenue or counterfeit documents shall be withheld. He will not report for employment, foreign residence or the birth of another descendant. In addition, in recent times, the number of cases where people are trying to forge documents for housing aid applications has increased. This also boasts people on social networks. It is huge money, and people who are really entitled to social benefits have to beg very often and often beg for these benefits in a humiliating way. Therefore, I would very much like to ask, Prime Minister, how your government is progressing to avoid this, because there is an obvious increase year by year in the payment of irregular benefits. Will the controls be increasing? Will there be an increase in the number of employees to control it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u11	Thank you, too. And I'll ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u12	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Members, I assume that the sums mentioned here by Mr Černoch are based on a press release issued by the Office of Labour of the Czech Republic. The amount, it's not an estimate. The amount, it's not the result of some statistical inquiry, but it's the result of a real control activity. Perhaps in the past, the Labor Office did not issue such press releases because the controls were not carried out. We're the ones who started the controls. We started carrying out checks. We have increased the number of employees of the Labour Office in the past three years. Thus, the Labour Office has the people to carry out more control investigations than in the past. And by carrying out more control investigations, the Labour Office has also revealed more cases with regard to the abuse of social benefits. That means it's absolutely specific data. It was revealed through the state's activities, through the control activities of the Labour Office. So it turns out that we have an operational and effective control system, only to use it. So we started using it and at this point it has absolutely concrete results and actually succeeds in saving funds from the state. Otherwise, I would like to say that a total of 160,000 investigations took place between January and December 2016. Most of the investigations were conducted in the Moravian-Silesian Region and the total savings for both these years amounted to more than CZK 150 million in connection with these investigations. The essence and purpose of the investigation is to obtain information on the applicant's living and social situation. It shall be verified whether the specific applicant or beneficiary actually finds himself in the conditions which entitle him to claim the benefit, the amount thereof and the payout, including the duration of the payment. This means that the aim of the check is to verify whether what applicants for these benefits are genuinely true in the relevant documents on which they apply for benefits. So it compares what the applicant claims and compares the real reality with the investigation. In the event that the claim is not confirmed, the Labour Office will withdraw the benefit or, in that case, the Labour Office will reduce the benefit. The Labour Office focuses on individual work with beneficiaries of benefits and, of course, primarily aims to try to apply to the labour market. As I said before, the Labor Office has intensified financial control in the field of non-insurable social benefits, thanks to the personnel strengthening that has taken place since mid-2014. Approximately 900 systemic sites have been added, especially in the section of relief benefits in material distress, and this strengthening also reveals a greater number of transgressions. In practice, the setting of even closer cooperation between the employment agendas and the non-insurable social benefits agendas within the Labour Office is also positive. The staff of the Labour Office shall have more scope to carry out social investigations, both those which are announced and those which are random at the place of residence of the beneficiaries of benefits. And thanks to this fact that we even have the capacity to conduct local investigations, we manage to reduce the risk of abuse of social benefits. The Office of Work also warns the applicant that he is able to detect these cases. This means that the Labour Office is also trying to prevent potential applicants from deterring those who would eventually try to use false information when applying for social benefits. So I am glad that the Labour Office finally, after years, has set up a control system, as well as a set cooperation with the Police of the Czech Republic, has a set cooperation with municipalities and employees of the Labour Office also use knowledge of local conditions in the detection of unauthorized receipt of benefits, and if they get a specific suspicion as to whether fraud or crime occurred, they will immediately notify the relevant state prosecutor or the Police of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u13	Thank you. The Member has an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u14	Very quick follow-up question. Indeed, there are discussions on how to circumvent the law, how to obtain unduly social benefits on social networks. And the question is whether you are aware of this and whether the Labour Office is using or going to social networks precisely to prevent the payment of illegal benefits and violations of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u15	Thank you. Prime Minister, I'm going to ask you to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u16	I must say that the Labour Office itself has listed social networks as one of the sources of information. So, given that the Labour Office itself has said this, I assume that social networks are also used in terms of control activities. In particular, local investigations are a key part of the control activity. This means, for example, whether the housing situation actually corresponds to what the applicant claims for the benefit in question, and in particular in this case as regards housing benefits, the local investigation may be of great help in terms of control activity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u17	Thank you. Next, Mrs Věra Kovářová will speak with her interview on the drawing of money from the European Union to extend the Internet connection. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u18	Dear Prime Minister, it has not been a long time since I've intervened with you on the drawing of European money to expand high-speed Internet connections, which - diplomatically speaking - did not go well with Minister Mládek. In your reply, a promise was made that the first call should be launched in March of this year. I ask you, Prime Minister, is this promise still valid after you have announced the appeal of Minister Mládek? Could it not, paradoxically, be threatened by his appeal, which was supposed to come significantly earlier, to fulfill this promise? And if, in March, the call will not be issued, or if serious difficulties arise in the drawdown, are you ready to take responsibility for this personally, Prime Minister? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u19	Thank you, too. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation is exactly as I will describe in a few moments, that is, the process of preparing the challenge is underway. Otherwise, I would like to remind you that the call for projects under the High Speed Internet Support Programme is being prepared so that it can be announced as soon as possible, depending on the number of comments on the public consultation. This means that we are in place shortly before the work on declaring this challenge is completed. The finishing work runs on the annexes to the challenges that define in more detail the issues of procedure, the required solutions and the required results so that subsidies to public electronic communications networks are effective and the State and through this support are able to establish a long-term successful competitive business environment with balanced prices and a sufficient reserve of transmission capacity for networks for at least the next decade. However, the text of the call and some of the annexes, in particular the guide for applicants and beneficiaries of the grant devoted to eligible expenditure, will still be consulted by the professional public, and will be completed during the second half of March 2017, i.e. until the second round of public consultation on the proposed intervention areas ends. The total allocation of this call is planned in excess of CZK 11 million. The call will be open to all entrepreneurs in the field of electronic communications. This is a round collection of applications, that is, the receipt of applications will take place from the announcement of the call, expected to be around the end of the summer of this year. As I said before, this is a round collection of applications, which means that projects aimed at the same area will be compared to each other. The Ministry of Industry expects the first round of the call to be announced in the range of about 80 intervention areas, which include over 3,700 basic settlement units. The evaluation of the project will take place on the basis of the selection criteria approved by the Monitoring Committee. The selection criteria for a high-speed internet support programme are either binary, meaning met - failed or scoring. Within the scope of the scoring criteria a maximum of 100 points may be allocated to each project. The minimum threshold for granting the project is 60 points. The Ministry of Industry prepared a document of selection criteria and discussed it with representatives of the professional public during October and November 2016. Prior to sending the text to the Monitoring Committee, there were still slight contradictions that were finally resolved in the agreement of the stakeholders in January of this year. The document itself was subsequently sent to the Monitoring Committee at the beginning of February 2017 with the consent of the representatives of the professional public. The meeting of the Monitoring Committee, which will discuss selection criteria for the first call for the High Speed Internet Support Programme, is scheduled for 28 February this year. Representatives of the Office of the Government dealing with the issue of drawing European funds will also attend this meeting. I think this is the most detailed information that I can publish in connection with this one call for the relevant Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness. Of course, the responsibility for the speed of drawdown of each operational programme is on those members of the government under which the managing authorities of these operational programmes fall. I can assure you that, as Prime Minister, I regularly examine how individual operational programmes are being drawn up and at the level of the Government Committee, the ESIF Government Council, we deal with the situation on a regular basis on individual operational programmes and, of course, problems that could somehow slow down the use of operational programmes. So much information that I have received now from the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I assume that the change in the position of Minister of Industry and Trade should not interfere with this process, because these documents are not being completed or processed directly by the Minister of Industry and Trade, but are being processed by the relevant employees of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and there, as far as I know, there have been no personnel changes that should delay these works.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u21	Thank you. Just a follow-up question. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u22	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. You said in your reply that the preparations are running so that the challenge is announced as soon as possible. Then you mentioned the term March. Can you really guarantee that the call will be issued by the end of March? In this context, I would like to ask you about Mr Prouza whether he will be proposed as Minister of Industry and, if so, what impact it will have on his role as Digital Coordinator if he has fulfilled his expectations. I ask what he did there, and if he became a minister, who would replace him. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u23	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u24	Thank you. I do not want to enter into a discussion which will concern the successor of Minister Mládek. I want to start this debate primarily with the President of the Republic this afternoon, so I don't want to get ahead of this debate. I would like to return to the question of whether the function of the digital coordinator fulfilled expectations. I must say, yes, she has fulfilled my expectations, and I am glad that she has also fulfilled the expectations of the social partners. We have addressed the current issue of the digital agenda at the last meeting of the Council of Economic and Social Agreement and both the trade unions and employers have appreciated the progress made in this area in terms of the current agenda of the digital economy, in terms of the quality of the relevant action plan that has been developed in this area. So I believe that the fact that we have appointed a separate coordinator for the digital agenda has helped better cooperation, helped greater contacts that are really with the business environment, and helped better coordinate individual state authorities dealing with the digitalisation agenda. So I am convinced that the coordinator's role has proved successful and should be maintained in the future.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u25	Thank you. [[The Prime Minister has something else to add.]] Please, you still have time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u26	Do I still have a minute? Yes. I was assured of the grounds I received from the Ministry of Industry that the challenge would be announced as soon as possible. As soon as possible. So I hope that - we now have the second half of February, the Ministry of Industry and Trade has announced that it would want to end all the work that is linked to this challenge by the end of March. So let's keep our fingers crossed for the officials of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and believe that they will prepare the documents for this particular challenge as soon as possible. Those challenges are announced by dozens, maybe hundreds, within all operational programmes. This is probably the only challenge that is given such great attention here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u27	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Antonín Seďa, who interpels on dividends. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Mr. Prime Minister, I recently intervened with the Minister of Finance on sector tax and foreign profits. I know that an analysis has been drawn up at the Office of the Government which describes this issue and which shows that we have a problem. Among other things, the analysis also says that the Czech Republic has the largest capital drain, which limits the development of our economy because it is not reinvested and there is no money for innovation. In addition, our employees, who have low wages and wages for this reason, are mostly on the line. And I certainly don't think the solution is to abolish the taxation of dividends, which is what the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš intends to propose. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask your opinion on how to deal with this situation, and I would like to address the tax evasion that our country has for tax purposes in tax havens. After years, the European Union and the European Commission are finally going to address this problem by introducing a common tax base. Again, the problem is that our Minister of Finance is rejecting this path. That is why I want to ask your opinion and how to avoid these tax evasions, which are unsolidary to other taxpayers, but in particular they are unsolidary to our entire society. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u29	Thank you, too, and I will ask you, Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u30	Thank you. Indeed, honourable Members, at that international level where multinational companies, multinational corporations, are the main problem of tax havens, and the main problem is fiscal dumping. They need to be dealt with closely with other countries, as well as with international institutions such as the OECD. However, cooperation within the European Union is essential for the success of our government's efforts, both in setting up a fair tax environment and in combating tax evasion. Here we are discussing the limitation of value added tax evasion. Here, too, the Czech Republic is taking initiative with regard to the reverse charge system, or a common European corporate tax base is currently being discussed. The previous governments took a negative position on the debate on the common European corporate tax base. I am trying to make the Czech Government more positive about this debate, because I believe that an agreement on a common European corporate tax base would limit the possibilities of tax optimization in Europe. And it would certainly also limit the possibilities of tax dumping and limit the cases that we have seen, some individual tax regimes that have been chosen by individual governments in some European countries to acquire corporate headquarters and then offer them extremely favourable tax conditions, which in some cases has proved to be contrary to European law. So if we could move forward in Europe in this debate on the common European corporate tax base, this could help a great deal from the point of view of combating aggressive tax optimisation and tax evasion. We will now be debating the position of the Czech Republic on this debate again in the spring of the meeting of the Government, and I assume that the position will be such that the Czech Republic will participate in the next debate, and in no way will we block the next debate. When it comes to the problem facing our economy, and that is the question of the flow of profits from our country, an analysis of the profit drain has actually been developed. This was one of the measures based on the Action Plan to promote economic growth and employment for 2016. The long-term low wages and the lack of convergence of our economy indicated that the possible problem could be the flow of profits from the Czech Republic. Therefore, the Office of the Government was entrusted with the processing of the analysis, which was to examine this issue more closely and also propose possible solutions. I must say that the conclusions of the Office of the Government study are alarming. The yield flow in the Czech Republic is at least twice as high as it would correspond to objective conditions. The amount of the tide last year represented up to CZK 300 billion, while the natural profitability of foreign investors should be at most half. The Czech economy has been on the rise for the third year thanks to our government's pro-growth policy. This is not reflected in the accounts of our citizens, despite a number of government actions aimed at promoting wage and wage growth in our economy, as would be fair. I am convinced that it is necessary to create an economic environment in order to reduce the flow of revenues abroad, so that the funds that have been created here do not depart from us and that should be used correctly for employees' wages or reinvesting in the Czech Republic. The Czech economy has structural shortcomings to address. We will have to find and support solutions that will enable our country to develop in the long term, enable small and medium-sized enterprises to compete equally with large corporations and provide our citizens with a well-deserved reward for their work. I am convinced that the basic measures that could reduce this profit drain in the future, in addition to the possibility of special taxes that we could introduce in the Czech Republic, such as in the financial sector, are, above all, pressure on wage growth. It would be appropriate for more funds to remain in wages. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u31	Thank you. The Member is about to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u32	Thank you. Prime Minister, it is a good thing that the current government has taken measures to limit evasion from value added tax. I also understand that the current government is likely to support a common basis for corporate tax. But as far as the flow of profits from the Czech Republic is concerned, and you yourself mentioned that it is twice as much as it should be, and the profitability of some companies, in particular from the banking and financial sectors, is, I would say, unfair to others. However, some economists argue, and the Ministry of Finance claims that the solution could be zero taxation of dividends, and warn about the introduction of sectoral taxes. I want to ask your opinion on the potential loss of investment attractiveness, and whether the introduction of a sectoral tax could really be the solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u33	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister will answer you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we discussed sector tax at the beginning of the government coalition. I must say that my political party of social democracy has suggested that we introduce a sector tax in the Czech Republic, especially in view of the profitability of some companies or some types of business, business in the Czech Republic compared with the countries of the rest of Europe or Western Europe. In some fields, profitability is just significantly higher. I would like to remind you that, for example, the average profitability of the financial sector is 13 percent in our country. The average in Europe is somewhere around 5%. So it is obvious that, by reducing corporate tax on the banks from 24 to 19 percent, we helped them significantly from this point of view, and it meant losing our public sector. [[15.10 hours]] I certainly do not think that the solution should be to reduce or perhaps cancel the dividend tax. First of all, it has nothing to do with the strong capital drain that we record each year, because this capital is not taxed in the domestic dividend tax system. He is taxing the dividend tax in the countries to which these funds are paid. That's where the dividend tax is paid, not in our country. So if we cancel this dividend tax or reduce it, it will help those who pay dividends here, recipients in the Czech Republic, from companies that are in the Czech Republic. It doesn't solve the basic problem we have with the massive capital drain. I really think that the key thing is that more money stays in wages, that more money stays in investment, and that where it is not possible, we should look for options for special taxation, sector taxes, such as special tax on the financial sector, which is an instrument that is used in the vast majority of the countries of the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u35	Thank you. Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be the next to present his interview. And it's about the Palliative and Hospice Care Act. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u36	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Mr Prime Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. During the entire current parliamentary term, we have repeatedly asked the Committee on Health and Social Policy, together with other Members, for a legislative solution to the problem of organisation and financing of long-term care, palliative care, including hospice. It is not necessary to stress that the current situation of operators of stone hospices, field hospice care, but also operators of long-term care facilities are unhappy in many respects. The lack of legislative anchoring of all modality of this care and the absence of clearly declared funding means, in practice, a significant imbalance in the availability and quality of care provided to long-term patients, including those suffering from incurable diseases. During last year, both committees promised us from the mouth of the representatives of the working committee on this issue, which we initiated, that in the autumn of 2016, two amending laws will be prepared, which will solve at least the most important problems especially in palliative care, and that the preparation of a separate long-term care law will continue. This was also confirmed by relevant representatives from both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health. However, with the exchange of the Minister at the Ministry of Health, the work on the upcoming amendment laws seems to have stopped. Although there were media reports at the beginning of January that the Ministry of Health is to quickly prepare the amendment law on health services, there is no further discussion of the same need for a change law on social services, because the issue of long-term and palliative care is clearly related to this law. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you when we will see the long-term promised and very necessary amendment laws on health services and the Social Services Act in the context of long-term care and when we will also have the long-awaited Hospice Care Act. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u37	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, too, and I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u38	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we are catching up on a lot of things that have not been worked out in the past, because there would be no need to address this problem, if we had already... after all, the social services law has been going on for a long time, the new system has been working here for a long time. If the question of palliative care were addressed in the past - it was not. That means it has to move our government. And I'm glad the specific designs are on the table. The Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs prepared an amendment to Act No. 108 on social services. This amendment also includes the regulation of palliative care in the provision of social services. I see support for dying as one of the main priorities. Social care around dying persons is so extensive and interferes with both social and health care. At the moment, the social component is solved by registering various types of social services, such as professional social advice, lightening services, to cover social care. Within the framework of the transparency of the entire social services system, a new type of social service is proposed, which would be called "social services provided to persons in terminal condition and close proximity'. The aim is to make palliative care accessible to all those who need it. And I am convinced that every citizen has the right to die in dignified conditions, even in the area we provide through social services. Currently, the draft social services law is being discussed by the Government's Legislative Council. According to the information I received today, it is expected to be submitted to the government on 13 March of this year. The effectiveness of this amendment is planned for January 2018. That means the government should be able to approve this amendment in March. The proposal that I have now described follows up on the objectives set out in the National Social Services Development Strategy for 2016 to 2025. In particular, it is a measure called "the introduction of gradual palliative and hospice care into the social services system and health services'. This national strategy was approved by the government on 21 March last year. At the same time, our government approved on Monday the Action Plan for the Development of Social Services for 2017-2018. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs has proposed several short-term strategic objectives in ten areas, which should significantly improve social services over the next two years, which means helping clients and social service providers. So much for the question that has been raised here, what exactly will the government do to improve the issue of the provision of services in the field of palliative care.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u39	Thank you. Would you like to ask me a follow-up question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u40	I thank the Prime Minister for his reply to that part, the amendment to the Social Services Act, which we have been waiting for in the long term. The amendment law was discussed in this context. If it's part of a big novel, of course it's a good thing. But I also asked about the other part, and that's the amendment law, or the upcoming amendment to Act No. 372/2011 Coll., on health services, because palliative care does not only have the social part, but also has the important part of health. And we can't wait to see the other novel yet. Well, I'd like to see if the Prime Minister can add to that when we're about to see a change in the Health Services Act.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u41	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u42	Thank you. I must say that I do not have any information at this time as to what the Ministry of Health's legislative plans in this area look like. What I can confirm is that the issue of palliative care is addressed by both the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health. There are also intensive negotiations between these ministries at this time and, of course, links to the health care system are also being dealt with. So now we have a solution on the table regarding social services, and I will certainly inform the Minister of Health how the Ministry of Health will still be able to respond in the next eight months that await us for the elections to the Chamber of Deputies. I would just like to ask that if the Government approves the amendment to the Social Services Act in March, then it is important that the amendment here in the House should be given the appropriate priority and that it has been discussed before the end of the parliamentary term. Perhaps it would be a shame if this novel has been called for years and years, it will be presented here, there will still be quite a lot of time left, so if we wasted this opportunity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u43	Thank you. Next, Mr. Jiří Valenta will speak with his intervention and it is about the dissolution of the Czech gold treasure into the Czech National Bank. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, how do you feel about the fact that the Czech National Bank slowly melts the Czech gold treasure, which was created with the emergence of our statehood, grew even then and is one of its symbols? The Bank's statistics show that by the end of 2016, it had only 9 620 kg of gold, with 300 kg more gold at its beginning. This is a decrease of less than in 2015, which was then half a tonne, but at this rate, our foreign exchange reserves will disappear within 20 years. But it was even worse when nearly 60 tons of gold disappeared somewhere in Switzerland and Germany between 1997 and 1998. A truly prudent financial policy. To this day, the public is hiding from whom, where, and how much. Business secrets, they say. Personally, I believe that the bank has seriously damaged the Czech Republic by this step. According to some experts, the profit could have been up to 27 billion. The higher, with similar strategies damaging our country and your government. Gold is sold in the form of collector's coins and the state thus not only comes its gold highness with a symbolic guarantee, but naturally also poor. Try reaching out to the finance minister Babiš and Governor Rusnok and then explain to the public why other central banks are going the other way - gold is being held and bought. I'll add one statistical fact to their journey. Central banks in developed countries hold over 30 percent of the gold foreign exchange reserves and we hold only half a percentage. Even the Slovák have 22 tons more gold than we do. Prime Minister, I beg the opinion of the chief executive of today, but also of the former finance minister, and especially of the steps that you could contribute to remedying this situation quickly towards unnecessary begging of all of us. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u45	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. And I'll ask the Prime Minister to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u46	Thank you. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is worth reminding me at first of all how things are from a constitutional point of view. The Czech National Bank is completely independent of the government of the Czech Republic. The Government of the Czech Republic has no jurisdiction over the Central Bank. The only person with authority to the Central Bank is the President of the Republic, who is elected directly by all citizens of the Czech Republic, and this President of the Republic appoints members of the Bank Board. It's his own decision. This means that even the government cannot interfere with this personnel competence of the President of the Republic. The central bank operates completely independently and is not subject to government control. So I cannot be responsible here for the activities of the central bank, because the government does not have any influence on the economic activities of the central bank and on the procedures chosen by the central bank. I can only rely on the information the government receives from the central bank, and I could, of course, quote the information I received from the central bank, which describes how the central bank, among other things, is. manages the part of the foreign reserve assets, which is made up of gold, respectively. gold castings or gold coins. I recently visited the central bank and was informed that the central bank had no strategy that should lead to the central bank in the near future getting rid of the gold reserves in some way massively, i.e. I have no information that there should be some time now when the central bank will continue to dispose of the gold it owns. However, it is indeed the central bank's responsibility. And here I would like to recommend using for example. that the Governor of the Central Bank goes to the Chamber of Deputies, that some reports are being discussed here in the Chamber of Deputies concerning the functioning of the Czech National Bank, and I recommend that you address these specific questions to the Governor of the Central Bank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u47	Thank you. A follow-up question, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u48	Thank you, Prime Minister. I didn't expect any other answer from you. But I'd like to remind you and argue a little bit about what you said here. The relationship between the Czech National Bank and the Government is modified in our legal system as follows: The Bank takes a position on proposals submitted for discussion to the government which affect its competence. The Czech National Bank serves as an advisory body to the Government in matters of monetary policy nature and financial market. The Minister of Finance - and it is important now - or another authorized member of the Government is entitled to attend an advisory meeting of the Bank Board of the Czech National Bank and may submit proposals for discussion. And this is exactly what I would ask you to do in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u49	Thank you. The Prime Minister will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u50	Thank you. Dear Member, I think this might be the path we could take. This means that I will turn to the Governor of the Central Bank whether he could provide the Government with the most accurate information on the issue of possession of gold by the central bank, and I will also ask the Finance Minister to open this issue at the Bank Board meeting. And if I get information from the central bank based on this question of mine that I'm going to rely on for this interpelation, then I'd take the liberty of letting you know about that information.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u51	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll read the apologies. Today, from 15 o'clock, Mr František Petrtýl cancels his apology, and tomorrow from 11.45 until the end of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Petr Kudela apologizes. We'll continue with the next interpellation. Next, Mr Petr Fiala will speak, and the interpellation is in the matter of taxes. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u52	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, in the past days, you have presented proposals for tax changes that would significantly complicate our tax system. If I understand correctly, it's not a coalition proposal, but it's the Prime Minister's opinion. That is why I will allow you to interpel in this matter. I hope we agree that our tax system is extremely complex, 122th in the world according to the World Bank, and the efforts of all of us should certainly be to simplify it rather than complicate it further. And when I go around the Czech Republic these days, I meet with the public, I meet with experts, so everyone complains not only about the amount of taxes, but mainly about the complexity of the tax system and also about the fact that taxes and tax systems often change. But what you're suggesting makes the system even more complicated. You want four income tax rates, and you quietly keep your mouth shut about how it's gonna be with a solidarity premium for people with the highest income. I cannot call this proposal anything other than a kind of envy game, because you want to create a sense in citizens that earning above average is wrong. You probably want to demotivate people, too. If that were not the case, you would have proposed a general tax reduction, you would have proposed a tax reduction to all, you would have suggested a reduction in taxes for both employers and employees, as the ODS wants to do, or a reduction in VAT, everyone is buying. But you're going a whole different way. I ask you, Prime Minister, if you do not wish to reconsider your proposal, to apologize to people that you do not wish them to succeed, and to support our proposals for reducing and simplifying the tax system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u53	I thank you and ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u54	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are countries in the world, unfortunately there are many that are significantly richer than the Czech Republic, in Europe a number of countries that are unfortunately more advanced than our countries, people there have a higher standard of living, better public services, and I am not talking about the fact that they have higher salaries and also a higher compensation ratio in terms of pensions, old-age pensions. And it's very interesting that when you look at these countries closer, you find that they all agree on one thing - they have a progressive taxation system. 21 countries in the European Union have a progressive system of taxation, and it happens to be those more advanced countries within the European Union. Those countries that have a much higher standard of living than we or, for example, the countries that have come to Europe, and some of them have a flat tax. Even countries like the United States, Canada, Great Britain have a system of progressive taxation. This progressive taxation system contributes to maintaining social cohesion and does not prevent people from achieving success in society in order to build their careers in order to gain wealth. When you look at Britain or the United States, these are countries where there are many successful and wealthy people, but they are countries that have a progressive tax system. [[15.30 hours]] We're not just suggesting what we're proposing. It is a reaction to what happened in 2007, in 2008 and later. Because we had a progressive tax system in our country until 2006. Coincidentally, those people who made the least money at the time paid a tax rate of 12 percent and the richest paid a tax rate of 32 percent. The proposal presented by social democracy follows up on the progressive system that was in force here until 2006. And let me just remind you that this progressive system was not even abolished by the government led by Václav Klaus when he was the head of the Civil Democratic Party. She didn't cancel the progressive tax system. The progression system hasn't been lifted until after 2006, and it's been replaced by something we have here today. I am convinced that as it is here today, it has been forced, it has been forced by large companies, multinational companies, banks and the richest. They just put in place tax reliefs, reduced taxes, and paid it by raising value added tax. This means the reform that your political party passed after 2006 meant that normal, ordinary people, employees, families with children, retired people raised their VAT, they started paying more VAT for food every time they bought, for drugs. And to the firms, the banks have reduced corporate tax and you've tried to introduce something you called equal tax. Fortunately, this has not been completely achieved, as originally imagined by the ODS, because we would have even higher rates of taxation when it comes to VAT on food than we have today. So luckily, the concept of equal taxation has not been fully implemented. But you deformed our tax system and moved us to the East. You've moved us significantly to the East. And I would like our country to return to civilised tax conditions that are in advanced states that are prosperous and have a higher standard of living than the Czech Republic has. That's why we opened the debate. He's before the election. Of course, at this point, we don't have the ambition to change the coalition agreement. There we agreed not to change tax rates substantially during this parliamentary term. But there are elections ahead of us again, and citizens have the right to choose what tax policy in their country will look like. I do not agree that the existence of several income tax rates complicates the tax system. I mean, we have computer technology today. There is no problem with computer technology working at the level of a citizen or at the level of tax administration. After all, it's just an issue of electronization, automation. And what we need is to strengthen electronic communication with the state, strengthen electronic forms of payment of taxes. This can significantly reduce the administrative burden that we still have in some cases today. So, yes, we can reduce the administrative burden, but in principle I do not agree that tax progression, the existence of three four zones of personal income tax, would constitute a fundamental administrative complication of the tax system itself. If that were the case, why do 21 European countries have tax progress?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u55	Your time, Prime Minister. [[The Prime Minister is leaving the microphone.]] Thank you. The President is about to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u56	Dear Prime Minister, of course we already have a complicated tax system, that is simply an objective fact. You just want to make him more complicated. You look abroad selectively, where it suits you, but you don't compare numbers that don't suit you. But I will return from your interpretation to the past and from the west to the east to the Czech Republic here and now. So you're telling us that a high-quality doctor in a state hospital with a salary of 60,000 a month -- that's the average salary that I think the doctor deserves -- that a doctor like that is about 2.5 thousand a month to be offended by, you know, about 29,000 a year? Why? I'm asking you, Prime Minister, why? What reason is there for this person to have so much less money?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u57	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we have presented a proposal which is the subject of debate, and we want to have a debate about it with the public. I don't know if it belongs here entirely for interpelation, but there's just been a question, so I'm trying to answer it, even though it has nothing to do with the Prime Minister's work, because this is not a proposal that the government would make. This is a proposal that presents social democracy. And we want to have a public debate on how to set up a fair system of taxation in our country, how to set it up in a situation where 4 million people have income, have a gross monthly income of less than CZK 50,000. This is certainly surprising for many people, but 2 million employees and small businessmen have lower monthly gross income than the average wage in the Czech Republic, which is around CZK 27,000. So the average wage of roughly CZK 27,000, but 2 million people have a lower average monthly income than that amount. That's a terrible problem. This is terrible news about what the real income level is in our country. Four million people have less than CZK 50,000 gross. In our country, about 5 million citizens are economically active. So the vast majority of them, or at least half of them, have income, which is at the level of only average wages or below average wages. We are trying to take this situation into account. We're trying to help these people. We are trying to set up a tax system to make it more motivating to work because, in my opinion, not a supply system, but the tax system should increase people's support and motivate them to work more. That is why we are putting forward this proposal. And I will be very happy to see a fairer tax enforcement at the end of it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u59	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura will now speak with his intervention in relation to the Financial Administration procedure. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u60	First, I will respond to the Prime Minister. Fairer taxes mean that a doctor earns 30,000 a year less. Notice what the question was and what the answer was. The Prime Minister didn't tell us anything. And speaking of pre-election promises of social democracy, I was quite glad to hear that social democracy will now protect those small and medium-sized ones. If it wasn't so sad, it'd be ridiculous. Prime Minister, I was visited by a small businessman in my office who first filed a check report, a quarterly payer, on April 12, last year. Everything was fine with him. Then the Financial Administration found a contradiction that was on the supplier's side, I have both invoices. The contractor didn't give his I.D. So he fixed it. It is true that this entrepreneur did not send the Financial Administration a very important report "everything is fine" in time. On this basis, in January, after seven months, he was fined 30,000 - after hearing from the Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister: we will be quite tolerant for the first year. This man did not hesitate, he took a thousand crowns and asked for forgiveness. In response, I have all the papers. He gave it to me. [[Towards the Prime Minister.]] I don't want to name him because he's afraid of another financial administration approach. If you want, I'll give it to you. The answer was first, the first prerequisite for forgiveness is that you have never, or in the last three years, had any problems with the Financial Administration. This is true, you didn't have a problem, so we went to the second point, whether it's justified, it's not justified. 30,000 crowns! To him, it's vanquishing. At this point, he's asked for a payment schedule. We'll see if the Financial Administration agrees. However, it was based on the central order of the Chief of Financial Administration, it is still praised that he gave away CZK 89 million. Why do you take money like that to those small and medium-sized people for not cheating the state of the crown? Not one crown! And $30,000 pays the penalty!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u61	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u62	Thank you. You know, it's probably difficult to discuss specific examples, because there is confidentiality within the tax administration, and I don't know if the tax administration is ready to discuss specific examples with the Prime Minister concerning specific taxpayers. That means, I guess it would be worth finding a mechanism to explore this thing. The Member has said that he does not want to mention who he is. So I would ask that I get this particular example identified. I will certainly turn to the tax administration through the finance minister under which the tax administration falls, and I will find out for what reasons it has not been granted on this matter. [[15.40 hours]] I also noted a statement by the Minister of Finance stating that the tax administration would take into account the launch of the entire system of control reports. That's a new thing in our tax system. We did not invent it in the Czech Republic, we inspired with control reports that were introduced in Slovakia. And it was clearly said that at that initial stage, the situation that this is tax news will be taken into account. So I would very much like to be able to obtain specific data relating to this case, and on that basis, I would like to address the Minister of Finance. But it's not just this particular case, but I would also turn to the methodology issue. That means what's the method? Is it really a methodology that recommends that the tax administration take such situations into account? Was any methodology applied to take account of the fact that it was the year of the system's launch, the inspection report, as it was introduced? So here I think that we could exercise some control, some supervision, and see if we can get the tax administration to clearly stand up to the matter and express itself in a clear way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u63	Thank you. Are you going to ask the follow-up question? Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u64	But the problem is in the law, and we can change that. I'm not just here for one particular case. There's a lot of cases. We've read it in the media in the past few weeks. These people didn't cheat the state by a crown. The point is, they didn't confirm within five days that what they sent was correct! And the little ones have external accountants! They don't have one team of accountants. [[unintelligible]] It's a problem for them when he's on a business trip for two days, so no one's picking up a message from his data box! That's the problem. So my question is: Prime Minister, will you be willing to submit an amendment to the VAT Act so that sanctions do not affect those who do well and within the time limit? And it's just, and really just for example, late to confirm that what they've sent once is true? It seems completely absurd to me! There wasn't any. [[unintelligible]] I read another example: seven crowns! There's a $30,000 fine, too! Now my colleague tells me he knows the example from another region. This is a general problem, and it is at the direct direction of the General Financial Directorate, which came in December, and in January the fines for the first inspection report of April 2016 come in. And that's not fair!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u65	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u66	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am kind of filling in for the Minister of Finance here, because the tax administration falls under him, and the Minister of Finance is responsible for legislation relating to me. and value added taxes. However, I do not renounce responsibility. I am prepared to engage in this matter and I think that we can then evaluate together whether the types of examples or cases that have taken place in the tax administration, whether they are an argument for us to consider changing legislation. So what I'm saying is, let's rationalize the situation rationally, ask the tax administration to give us the statistics, what it looked like with the fines, what were the offences for which the fines were handed out. And if there are any areas where legislation can be changed without compromising the fundamental objective of the Act on the introduction of control reports, I think that is an open matter. And I'm not resisting the debate. Absolutely not. But I'd like to have specific numbers and specific tax statistics on my desk, so that we know how many such cases have been and if that's a reason for us to think about a possible change in the law. But first, we're going to have to defend ourselves to the Treasury and to the tax administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u67	Thank you. Next, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will speak with his interpelling, and it is about stopping the sale of Homolek Premium Care, a. s. Please, Mr.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u68	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I repeatedly ask you to stop the grandson's company Na Homolce Hospital, namely Homolka Premium Care, a. s. because we were informed that this company should be sold as part of the liquidation of subsidiaries. [[Sales]] I will take the liberty of a few contrasts between Hospital Na Homolce and the contribution organization and the particular joint-stock company. While Homolce Hospital has sales of 3.12 billion. CZK 2015, result of CZK 21.7 million CZK and number of employees 1 875, so Homolka Premium Care, a. s., has sales of 28 million, result before tax 7 million, number of employees five doctors, four managers, three nurses. The sale price of the shares should be 22 million. Crowns. That means in less than three and a half years, whoever buys it will have it back. It's a very profitable thing. I think the hospital can keep the company, it doesn't have to be just a sale, it can merge with this company, or it can keep running it. But in principle, this grandson's company accounts for more than one third of the profits of the Hospital Na Homolce. I don't see why it should be sold. And the arguments of both the director of the hospital and the Deputy Minister of Health seem odd to me, and I don't think any manager would sell such a profit company. I would therefore like to ask you repeatedly to stop this sale, to verify it properly, and to keep this company, which is carrying the Hospital Na Homolce, quite significant resources, within the Hospital Na Homolce. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u69	Thank you, too. Please, Prime Minister, give me an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u70	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if I am not mistaken, Na Homolce Hospital is a contribution organisation of the Ministry of Health. And I have to say that for me a few years ago, when these things began to be dealt with and they began to be dealt with under our government after the changes in the Hospital Na Homolce, I was very surprised that such a network of public limited companies could have been created under the contribution organization of the Ministry of Health in recent years. And it was even said here that Homolka Premium Care is the grandson company of Na Homolce Hospital. I do not know if in the Czech Republic another contribution organization was established by the Ministry of Health or by any other contribution organization that would form the structure of subsidiaries and grandson stock companies. I don't think so. That means the case of Homolce Hospital is unique, and I think it's unique in a negative sense. Because I don't understand how it is possible that something like this has actually happened and that it has been tolerated for so long. Then I know that the SAO's audit conclusions came, the ministerial controls came, the personnel decision came, the director of Na Homolce Hospital changed during our government, and the Ministry of Health submitted a proposal to the government that dealt with the liquidation process of the subsidiary companies Hospital Na Homolce. The government has simply come to the view that this system needs to be put to an end and put an end to it through liquidation. This means that the material was discussed by the government on 7 July last year, in which it is stated that, in the case of Homolka Premium Care, the sale of its shares to any interested party was envisaged as part of the liquidation of Holte s. r. o. I must say that when the material was discussed, neither within the framework of the comments procedure nor within the framework of the Government's deliberations on this conclusion, and no comment was made on this proposed procedure. The government therefore approved the liquidation procedure of the subsidiaries of Hospital Na Homolce. It is therefore proceeding in accordance with the Government's resolution. The sale of the shares of Homolka Premium Care is therefore in line with this, under the legislation of the company's liquidator, and as I received information from the Ministry of Health, the tender for the sale of the shares was cancelled, the sale, which is in the hands of the company's liquidator, continues with the aim of achieving the highest yield. And the Ministry of Health says that the expected return should be higher than the price that arose from the tender. So this is a process that is currently under way and is in line with the Government's resolution. [[15.50 hours]] I believe that if there should be a re-evaluation of the process, then there should be fundamental arguments on the table as to why the contribution organisation of the Ministry of Health should keep the grandson's joint-stock company in its structure. I don't think it's appropriate for Hospital Na Homolce's management system to be preserved in this way compared to what the government has decided, compared to what the Supreme Audit Office or the Ministry of Health has criticized in the past. So I certainly do not defend myself from the debate, but it seems strange to me that we should now withdraw from what has been approved by the government and what has been seen as the removal of the strange paradoxical state of the structure of companies that have formed around the Hospital Na Homolce, and in my view it has not done any good in terms of the operation of this facility and the transparency of its operation. So here I would like to hear arguments about why this should happen, why the government should reconsider its decision that it has already made on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u71	Thank you. The Member is obviously going to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u72	Of course you're right, Prime Minister, that the situation has been transparent and has been tolerated since 1998 by all the governments that have been here, and even at the time I filed criminal charges for tunneling the hospital in 2010, I was told that nothing is going on, and Mrs. Attorney Machová postponed the case after two years of investigation. Then it's restored, the investigation continues, and the concrete results are. But now, why should the hospital keep this grandson's company? The point is that you probably had detailed information on how profitable this company was in the government, and I think there's nothing to prevent this company from being liquidated in any other way than by selling it. A merger with a parent company may take place, it may be cancelled without liquidation, transfer of assets to the partner and programs that are being carried out there may continue, especially if a number of doctors are employed both at the Hospital in Homolka and at the joint-stock company. [[Attention on time.]] And otherwise, I would recommend your attention to the remuneration of the board members and the supervisory board, which account for half of the profits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u73	Thank you. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u74	Yes, thank you. So I think that, honourable Member, what you have just handed me, if I just look at it a little bit, confirms my dark suspicions as to what was one of the purposes of creating this network of subsidiaries and grandson organizations under the Hospital Na Homolce. Probably some people from the management of this company wanted to improve by holding different positions in the statutory bodies in these companies. This would also result in the share of the money that was provided to pay off the rewards. So I think it'll be good if the structure gets destroyed. But I'm sure I'll turn to the Minister of Health, if the disposal method is as effective as possible, so that the Ministry of Health will look into it. But I suppose we understand that it would be a good idea for us to liquidate the anomaly, so that the state contribution organization does not set up subsidiaries of a type of limited-liability joint-stock company or limited-liability company.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u75	Thank you. Mrs Jana Hnyková will be the next to speak with her intervention, and this is on the issue of the salary assessment of social workers. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, there has been no increase in the salaries of social services workers in the adoption of this year's budget due to the lack of 12 votes. Twelve votes from your social democracy and partner YES. In your response to my subsequent interpelation, in which I asked you what concrete steps you would take to improve the salary assessment of social services workers, I did not learn anything from anything concrete. I therefore ask you again what concrete steps you will take to improve the situation in the salary assessment of workers in social services. If you were to come, Prime Minister, among the people in this sector, you would find out very quickly how much of a problem there is that many workers are leaving this job precisely because of their low salaries, and the directors of the facility are starting to deal with a lack of staff. Your government always solves problems when they happen. So try to make an exception once and start solving problems in advance, in the bud. Just because social services are one of the very important areas that should be a priority for us. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u77	I thank you for your question, Madame, and I will ask the Prime Minister for an answer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u78	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I think, of course, I could verbally say that social services are our priority, but I do not have to say this verbally here, but I can also clearly confirm it with numbers. And I think numbers are really important, how much money our government really spends on social services. I am proud that every year the amount we provide in the budget for social services is increasing. So this year the amount of 9,270 billion was divided. Crowns. It is therefore a record amount that has been divided into social services over the last few years. And I'm also glad that the Department of Labour has this time sent advances to regions that pay money for social services, record-breaking early. This means that, during the month of January, an advance was sent to provide social services. It was also an extraordinary measure because in recent years advances were sent significantly later. So the advance went off record early, we're providing a record amount for social services this year, but I agree with what was said, even if it's a record amount, it's not enough. Because unemployment has decreased, there is much more demand for labor today, companies are adding. I'm glad they're adding. I have recently seen that one of the other business chains has decided to significantly increase the salaries of its employees, which is good, but it creates great competition for social services. The government is aware of that. During those three years we gradually raised tariff salaries in social services three times. Since 1 November 2015, they have increased by 3 % and since November last year, wages have increased by 4 %. This means increasing tariff salaries in social services, raising money for social services that go as subsidies to regions, and we are discussing at the moment that we change the system of remuneration for workers in social services and achieve that the work catalogue is adjusted so that social workers are placed in a higher grade. This means, we also want to achieve an adjustment, a change in the system of tariffs so that we can also allow higher salary evaluation within the tariff system that is valid in the Czech Republic. I am also saying this because, even for this measure, if we enforce it, we want to find the funds still within this year's state budget. So at this point, it's about tariff changes. We would like to reach them around the middle of this year and find the means by which we would still strengthen this area in a budget manner. We have negotiations on the state budget for 2018, and I am ready to support the increase in social services expenditure as one of our priorities in preparing the budget for next year. It is true that society is getting older, we need to ensure a greater range of social services. It is true that unemployment has decreased, that is, there is great competition in the labour market, and if we do not continue to increase wages in social services, then indeed some social services will be threatened by possible workers' failures. That means there won't be enough qualified people to provide these social services. [[16.00 hours]] I am glad that we are succeeding in keeping with the trend of the gradual increase in funds that are intended for these purposes. And I want to remind you of one more important measure that we won last year, i.e. increase in the care allowance. From 1 August, the care allowance increased by 10 % and this contribution is an important source of funding for social services. This means that the government has supported social services not only by increasing subsidies, but also by giving people who buy social services 10 percent higher contributions, and this will certainly also be reflected in higher income of facilities, especially those that collect payments for social housing services. So this is another measure that I want to recall which improves the possibilities of financing social services and also the possibility of paying better workers who do in social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u79	Thank you. I am warning the Chamber of Deputies that it is 16 o'clock and that the time has passed when it is possible, according to the Rules of Procedure, to give oral interpelations to the Prime Minister. So we will now follow up with the oral interpellation to the other members of the government. I therefore ask Mrs Olga Havlová to give an interview to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports, Kateřina Valachová, and thus launch a block of government members' replies to the interpelation of Members. Mr. Vladimír Koníček will be ready. I just want to ask Madam Secretary - I have written that you apologize today, and you are present. So you're canceling your note from today's meeting? Yes, well, from the afternoon, that's what you're noble. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u80	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Minister, the Edison project, which protects the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, is said to unite young people of different cultures and nationalities to become familiar with customs, traditions and situations in other countries and thus become generations that break through the deepening intercultural barrier. It revives teaching and increases interest in studying between students and students and teaches them not to be afraid of a different one. Beautiful words, but what lies behind them. More and more parents from different places of the Republic turn to me that their children are influenced without their knowledge by representatives of Muslim countries who are acquainting them with Islam. If it wasn't for these parents, I didn't even know about this project. According to their interpretations, it describes the quoted sentence: Teaches them to fear (?) different. I have become interested in the project, so I ask: How is this initiative included in the course of teaching individual schools? Or is it just some schools' initiative? How is it possible that these initiatives also appear in kindergartens without parents' knowledge and consent? And if this project is related to the award of the title "ethical school" and how much this project costs us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u81	I thank you and ask the Minister to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u82	Mr President, honourable Members, as Mrs Havlová described in fact the introduction to the description of this so-called. a project, so to speak, I have exactly the same information in this regard as her, but I have nothing richer. The Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has nothing to do with this project, it does not support it financially in any of them, and all we have learned is that in 2013, i.e. outside this government, this project has been awarded a patronage, but - of course - without financial or further fulfilment. I would like to stress that as far as any non-profit organisations are concerned, in this case they are a non-profit organisation, as we have tracked down, AIESEC, and Edison, of course, has nothing to do with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, and it is up to the school director to assess, under his responsibility, whether he can bring something like this into line with the framework education programme. However, I was surprised by Mrs Havlová's information about kindergartens or my parents' ignorance, so I will certainly take all the details she has received from the parental public and, of course, we will examine this situation. But I would point out that the Ministry of Education has nothing to do with this project in 2013 and does not finance it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u83	I thank you, Madame, to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u84	If I understand this correctly, I have here the signed document, when you grant a patronage in 2013, 15 January signed by the Deputy Minister, Dr. Jindřich Fryč, and currently the Ministry no longer grants this patronage. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u85	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u86	No such patronage has been granted in the time of my administration. I'd just like to say that what we found in 2013 doesn't exactly match the description of how you mediate information from your parents. Because it was mentioned here that it was to strengthen the motivation of pupils to improve conversational skills in the English language. The project does not favour specific cultures or themes of religion, let alone their teaching. This is therefore the information traceable to 2013 by the parties to the then granting of the patronage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u87	Thank you. Mr Vladimír Koníček, who interpels the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, on budgetary measures in Chapter 371, will speak second. Mr. Vice Prime Minister apologizes. Please read your interview, it will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u88	Thank you, Minister. On 3 November 2016, the Supervisory Committee discussed the draft budget of Chapter 371 of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements for 2017. The proposal was - expenses 0. With the projected expenditures going to be a little over 20 million. In resolution No 226 asked the Supervisory Committee to submit proposals for all budgetary measures relating to budget chapter 371. By letter of 6 December 2016, you assured the Committee that you would do so and that you would send the draft budgetary measures submitted by the President of the Authority to the Audit Committee for information - before they were approved. What was my surprise when I received a letter from your Deputy Minister Pavelek on 3 February 2017 with a budget measure approved by the government two weeks earlier, i.e. January 16. It frightened me a little that the planned expenditures increased from CZK 20 million to CZK 39 million. Why are the officials doing this to you, Minister? You promise the inspection committee that you will be sending him proposals, I stress the proposals for budgetary measures, and they have been doing so long that the information will not be sent until two weeks after approval by the government. Try to make order at the Ministry and try to explain to me why you are unable to ensure that your officials comply with the resolution of the inspection committee and your promises. Also, try to explain why the government has misled the entire House when the explanatory memorandum of the Act on the establishment of the Office for the Control of Political Parties states that in the first year the operation of the Office will cost them 20 million, and the government has added millions to them for this year 39. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u89	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mrs Věra Kovářová, who is intersecting the Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová on the drawing of EU money for the extension of Internet connection, will now speak. The Minister also apologizes, so I will ask you to read it, and it will be answered in writing. Load your interpelation, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u90	Madam Secretary, allow me to ask you a similar question to the Prime Minister, whom I repeatedly consulted on the use of European money to expand the Internet connection and the problems the Ministry of Industry and Trade had with him under the direction of Minister Mládek. I was intrigued that the Prime Minister was wondering my interest in the date of the unwritten call for the extension of the Internet connection. I would also like to know how your office feels about these difficulties and whether you and the Prime Minister consider that European money Indeed, the Czech Republic will be able to exhaust in time and meaningfully. I remind you, it's 14 billion. CZK, whose drawing was first threatened by arguments between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Industry and Trade, then by the hesitancy of the second of these offices. If, from your point of view, drawing, even if only parts of this money were essentially excluded, the Czech Republic has a plan B, how do we deal with these funds? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u91	Thank you for your interpellation. Mr Jan Farský, who is intersecting the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka, will now speak on the pointless valuation of the exchange of land by the State Land Office. With Minister Jurečka apologizing, I'll also ask you to enter an interpellation into the system. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to draw attention here to one problem which I see in how the State Land Office, referring to the methodological instruction, behaves towards municipalities, so that when municipalities request the State Land Office to purchase land and offer to it the exchange of its own land, so that, as far as possible, the premises and the land with which the State Land Office manages are valued at the market value on the date of application and the land of the municipality which is counted against the land are valued at the price applicable on 24 June 1991. You are thus exposing the representatives of the municipality to the possible criminalisation of their actions, because which mayor may proceed to such a proposal? I personally didn't believe that that was possible. That's why we asked the SAO if they really meant it. They sent it back to us with a methodical instruction and confirmation that the STU will take the land from the municipality at the value of 24 June 1991, but transfer it to the municipality at the value calculated on the date of the request. That's why I called my interpellation in the matter of senseless land transfers. And I hope, Mr. absent minister, that you will make that sense clear to me. And I hope even more that you will change this methodical instruction and not turn the mayors into criminals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u93	Thank you, too. Mr Martin Novotný, who interpels the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek on heat measurement, will now speak. The Minister also apologizes. So please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u94	Dear absent Minister, even in the somewhat curious political situation around your ministry these days and hours, I have nevertheless decided, given the seriousness of the problem, to turn to you with this intervention. About two years ago, we had a controversy about the amendment to Act No. 406/2000 Coll., on energy saving. I remind you, it was the so-called ones. indicators, devices to assist in measuring and billing the heat in apartment buildings. At the time I questioned the effectiveness of these instruments, their character as meters, their possible contradiction directly with the physical principles of heating. You, as is customary in many other cases, said that we must adopt this amendment, we must implement the relevant European directive and that we have no choice. In connection with today's known new facts, which consist e.g. in the fact that already half a year before submitting this amendment to you in the House it was known that e.g. Finland has dealt with it by having it carried out a study that has shown that such an instrument is useless and does not work, even in the context of today's European Commission opinions, which warns that some countries have transposed this fact without internal regulations and without any assessment and very little has addressed the effectiveness of this measure, in that sense the European Commission is now rather looking at them. It is a new space to open this topic. In the minutes of your representatives' meetings in Brussels, the European Commission directly mentions three possible solutions. An exception for a fixed category, an exception for an open category with a follow-up analysis of building by building, this is a building by building. Where appropriate, this solution obligation for all and the possibility of exemption on the basis of an assessment in individual cases. For nothing stands in the way of applying something blindly and, on the contrary, acting according to common sense. [[Time warning.]] I ask you to stop the issue of the relevant decree and take account of these new facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u95	Thank you, too. Mrs Miloslava Rutová, who is interviewing the Minister of Agriculture on the promotion of small rural food outlets, will now speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u96	Hello. In my interview, I am based on the information the Minister gave in his interview at Aktuálně.cz on 27 January 2017. In the last twenty years, around 6,000 small stores have been closed in the Czech Republic, which is a third of the original state. In small villages, shops will not earn even for normal operation, let alone dignified wages. The most critical situation in municipalities is up to 500 inhabitants. Small stores provide food mainly for older, less mobile villagers. According to your statement in the above-mentioned interview, the state should subsidize village stores in a similar way to regional carriers through the regions. If the necessary subsidies were applied to all municipalities with between 100 and 1000 inhabitants, this aid would be about 706 million. A year's worth of crowns. This is less than a tenth of what is being spent on transport services. In the interests of the operators of small shops and the inhabitants of the municipalities mentioned, I would like to ask whether the planned aid could be accelerated before other stores are closed. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u97	Thank you, too, Madame. Mr Simeon Karamazov, who intersects the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová, will now speak in the case of the Labour Code. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u98	Madam Secretary, part of the amendment to the Labour Code, namely the House Press No. 903, is a relatively detailed modification of work from home. The employer should be obliged, inter alia, to cover the costs of work from home, e.g. the costs of communicating with the employer. At the same time, the employer cannot include these costs in the salary, salary or remuneration of an out-of-work agreement with the employee, but must pay them separately. It is, I admit the request at least for me somewhat surprising. Work from home is seen in practice as a form of benefit granted to employees, and for these reasons I do not think it is necessary for the employer to pay the costs associated with it. On the other hand, the employee saves part of the costs thanks to work from home, e.g. the cost of transport to employment. I ask you, Madam Secretary, whether, in your opinion, the proposed wording is actually appropriate in this regard and whether it would be more practical to leave in the law the possibility of including those costs in wages. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u99	I also thank you and ask the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u100	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members and Members. What Mr Karamazov is proposing cannot be done. The costs, any compensation costs e.g. the communication between the employer and the employee must not be included in the salary, salary or remuneration of the agreement, in accordance with the framework agreement on distance work concluded by the social partners at European level in 2002. In fact, the reason for this ban is the basic principle of remuneration in basic employment relationships, which is what the labour code is all about. The point is that the provision of wages, salaries, and pay from an agreement, including all their work files, are things that can really be counted on just what this person actually does. This is the employee's working performance, the work results achieved. This performance, which has a purely substitute character, that is to say, the component of the wage or the remuneration from the agreement cannot simply be. I understand the request, but it's basically impossible to do that. In fact, the remuneration for work and the reimbursement of expenses related to the performance of the work of the employer's employees are quite different legal claims that exist in parallel and simply cannot be mixed. [[16.20 hours]] Otherwise, I would add that this distinction is also followed by an adjustment to income taxes and statutory premiums, where - if I simplify this - the transactions which replace the costs of the employee in connection with the performance of the work are not actually subject to those levies, unlike other income, which includes the remuneration for work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u101	Thank you, too. The Member shall ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u102	Thank you for your answer. I think I also understand what you said or the argument in that answer, but it may be more of a question. If they did not specifically mention in the agreements or even in the employment contract those benefits, respectively. The fact that the employee had other fees on his salary wouldn't be enough to mention that? Does this have to be explicitly mentioned in the agreement or in the contract of employment?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u103	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u104	I suggest that our lawyers give you an exact answer to that in writing. However, I cannot imagine it, because for me it would be a clear violation of the Labour Code, when the reward for work is only linked to how a person works and with his performance. But we'll agree to confirm it in writing and put a fictitious lawyer stamp on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u105	Thank you. Mr. Jaroslav Holík will now speak with his intervention. Interpels the Minister of Defence on the purchase of military radars. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u106	Hello. Dear Minister, yesterday on this House, we discussed a bill that should support science. I think our science isn't bad. In the military area we developed Tamara radar in the 1980s, later significantly upgraded as the radar Vera and it is still produced in both civil and military areas. For this reason, I was very surprised that we wanted to buy radar in Israel. Wouldn't it be better to support our own production? The money would stay in the Czech Republic and we could still earn on export. I just keep thinking, is it worth developing something in this country, is it worth making up laws to support when our own products aren't interested?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u107	Thank you. I'll ask the Minister to answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u108	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleague through the Vice-President, I can assure you that we have a common wish, but not just a wish, but we are implementing it, too, in a number of deliveries for the Army of the Czech Republic. I can assure you that at today's College of Ministers by coincidence, which is actually the highest approval body before any acquisitions go further to the government and into the whole process circle, we have agreed to a number of significant supplies that have the Czech industrial provenience, whether they are Sellier & Bellot ammunition, whether they are special vehicles for the Prostějovský six hundred and one, which we would like to buy from the SVOS, we have recently negotiated and discussed with Tatra Defence Vehicle, which is a six months ago branch of the Czechoslovak Group's armory, we are only taking about 120 trucks from Tatra this year, we have, of course, the court suppliers of handguns, whether they are attacking BREN rifles or FANTOM guns. I could go on. What we don't produce, what we don't produce in our country, we have to ask for it abroad. In this case, I would say the most serious and transparent form, which is the process where it is directly negotiated between the two governments of the countries concerned, and there after a very rigorous, long and careful evaluation and process of analysis and knowledge on the spot of individual offers, we have reached a decision to agree with the Israeli company, which produces absolutely high-end devices in the field of mobile radiolocators, which are not produced in our country, which are intended to ensure an overview of the air situation at small altitudes, that is, in national responsibility from 100 metres to approximately 3000 metres. So much in brief. If you need any further clarification, I'm at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u109	Thank you, too, Minister. Please, follow-up question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u110	Minister, thank you for your answer, but you didn't answer what I wanted to know. Currently, ERA produces a modernized version of Vera radar. There are other even more modern radars, like 3D, but hopefully there is no interest in them here. We're offering them to the Polák. I confess, I'm very sad when I read the headlines in the paper. I'll quote, our scientists are at the top, politicians are ignoring them. Lost billions and prestige. The world would see airplanes with stealth technology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u111	Thank you. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u112	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. With your help, honourable Member, something tells me that I may not be able to convince you today, but what is not today may be tomorrow. And I assure you, it is a product that is not produced in our country. Back in the day, when I arrived fresh at the ministry, I know that the offer from the company you named was here, but it was for the whole development from the start. And I really don't want to follow in the footsteps of some of my predecessors, when the army was buying weapons that weren't tried in deployment. This was also one of the great reasons that spoke for the Israeli choice, because they are, as you know and as you, I think, said, the volumes of resources that do not allow experiment. We can't take something that doesn't exist, that's just being drawn on paper, we can't take something that didn't pass the test of actual active deployment. What we want and what we are already discussing in the negotiation of a specific treaty is indeed one of the world's leaders. I think we all heard the expression Iron Dome, and I think it was a very serious and carefully considered decision. By the way, even in this case there is a Czech subject, because where we acquire abroad, the sine qua non is essentially a condition of participation of the Czech arms industry. And Retia will participate in this particular contract. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u113	Thank you, too. Mrs Anna Putnová will now perform with her intervention. She's intersecting Secretary Kateřina Valachová in the matter of math. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u114	Thank you. Good afternoon, Mr President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen. These days, the public is concerned about the issue of a common part of state graduation, especially in mathematics. Of course, the public wants to comment on the deadlines that have fallen in the past, which have then been postponed. It's bound to school programs. But completely out of the discussion, at least from the public debate, the role of the content of a common part of the state's math degree came out. So I would like to ask you, Madam Secretary, how do you prepare a common part of the State Mathematics Graduation in terms of content? Do you want to go back to a few different levels or two different levels? How will it be designed so that students, teachers, and, after all, parents can prepare for this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u115	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u116	Mr President, honourable Members, as regards the question of the honourable Member, I would like, first of all, to refer it to the written processing of the information received by the Government a week before the extension of the graduation exam in the case of secondary vocational schools has been approved for the next 104 courses since 2022/2023. There it is described in detail. In principle, we can say that we are definitely responding, for two years now, to the current unhappy state of our faces, and it is actually also set from the point of view of the rules in force in this way, that the output of education from grammar schools and secondary vocational schools is the same. This is also how the graduation exam including content and verification of outputs is set. And, of course, this is causing huge problems, because so far it has been more along the way to some extent of the level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level's level. And I think we all know, and we've already had the opportunity to read it repeatedly, that in short, the ability to be successful in mathematics as part of graduation today is really an ability in principle of knowledge and competence in terms of, for example, my generation in the ninth grade of primary school. That's why we're responding. During last year's holidays, I held a joint meeting not only with cerma, but also with the Czech School Inspectorate, which performs on the basis of the task of the Ministry of International Testing and Comparison, including mathematical literacy, as well as with the National Institute for Education, which is responsible for curicula and revision of framework education programmes. The point is, therefore, that our ambition is to actually link the information of these three institutions and set up from 2020/2021 for grammar school and then 2021/2022 for secondary vocational schools to correspond fairly to the revised framework education programmes and thus to the conditions that I mentioned. Regarding how this should actually look, it can be said that in the first phase we assume that, in particular, a set of examples and what is being verified will really be strictly consistent with how the education sector is set up. This is mainly about the difference between high school and secondary vocational school, a specific field, because we know that we have more than 300 fields of secondary vocational school. We're already working on that. The revision of the framework education programmes should be completed in 2018. And as far as unanswered or perhaps unanswered questions are concerned, but because, of course, we are discussing in the school committee, so I know, of course, what lies at the heart of Members and Members, the point is that in step two, it is also about connecting outputs from secondary education to expectations, for example, for universities and universities in the context of entrance exams, when they actually set their criteria. Therefore, there is still a pilot verification of mathematicians+, or, if you like, extended mathematics. And I assume that in stage two, the exam will also be extended, the plus, which will be better linked, for example, to the expectations of technical schools or universities, so that they can use seniors as a choice not only today as part of an optional subject, but also as part of the already stable verification of the output of gymnasium education and education of secondary vocational schools. Finally, I would like to say that the way of success for secondary vocational schools is no longer limited to success in the final exam, but again in the last two years we have worked a lot on combinations of three plus two, that is, the teaching certificate and graduation, and then in a year it is assumed that the new legislation of the master examination will be effective as another way after the teaching certificate or in some fields where we are accustomed to the graduation exam. And then I would like to say that it is very much acknowledged by secondary vocational schools, for example, in such a type of discipline as a hairdresser or similar, as is mentioned in the media today, pilot testing of four zeros, which means that in the course of a four-year senior education, the student will be able to decide after three years to make a teaching list and continue. That means we're doing everything we can to make our children successful, not to drown them like mice and laugh at them for not knowing how to count as it has been so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u117	Thank you, Madam Secretary. I ask if the honourable Member will ask an additional question. Yes, so you have the floor, Madame. And good afternoon, everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u118	You mentioned, Madam Secretary, that there would be a common part of state graduation in two steps. Can you give any guarantees that this term for secondary vocational schools will not be postponed again?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u119	I am certainly doing everything for this throughout my mandate, and I will, of course, do everything I can until the end of my mandate, to ensure that all the steps are carried out smoothly and that there is really no shift, including pilot-verification of mathematics+ and to establish the output of high school education and directly university education. And I dare to lighten up, Mr President. It can be assumed that if we are in agreement with the school committee, there will be a future minister or minister sitting there by now. I believe that this colleague or colleague will continue the work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u120	Thank you. Mr Antonín Seďa, who was drawn in the tenth place, will speak with the next interview. Ambassador, please bring your intervention to the Minister of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u121	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, a number of citizens, customers complain about confusing and incomprehensible labelling of the country of origin of foodstuffs. There are various classics and brands that prefer Czech products, but for example eggs marked with the CZ brand may not be Czech provenience at all. It indicates the code directly on the egg, which many citizens don't even know. According to your State Agricultural and Food Inspection Authority, the current legislation states that the country of origin of the food is considered to be the country where the last substantial food treatment takes place. But a substantial adjustment can be understood as packing, which I do not understand. That is why I ask, Minister, what is it really like? And if your inspection claims are true, will you change current legislation so that our citizens' customers are not misled and it was clear which foods are Czech and which foreign? Thank you for your answer. And to you, Mr. Vice-President. I will take advantage of the fact that I withdraw my oral interpelation number 24 and number 28 on account of the agreement with the ministers on written answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u122	Yes, thank you, so you're pulling 24, 28. Noted. The Minister, I see, is not here, so you will be answered in writing within 30 days. Next, Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who was drawn as the eleventh, will speak to the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u123	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, I'm following up on the last interview, and I wanted to ask if you've looked into Homolko Premium Care's business, a.s. This is the grandson's company, Na Homolce Hospital, which according to the director of the Hospital Na Homolce, is to be sold. I tried to make the main arguments last time. While the hospital has revenues of over CZK 3.1 billion, it has profits of around CZK 21 million at 1,875 employees, while the subsidiary or grandson company has revenues of CZK 28 million and has a profit of CZK 7 million. And out of the CZK 7 million, about half of it is paid for the remuneration of the board members and the Supervisory Board. He's, I'm saying, only about six employees. So I was actually gonna ask you to reconsider and stop the sale because there's no way to get rid of that stock company. It can be merged with the parent company, it can be dealt with by transfer of assets to a partner. I think it's possible to run these programs within a maternity hospital without a joint-stock company having to work. If it's so profitable, I think the hospital should keep it. That's my opinion on this. And I suppose you, as a good hospital manager, wouldn't take such a step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u124	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I ask the Minister to respond to the interpelation. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u125	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. Dear Mr. Ambassador. The basic problem is that at this point, the decision to liquidate is covered by a government resolution. It's already in the hand of the liquidator. And the liquidation of that company is going to take place by selling the shares, and there's going to be some revenue that's somehow rated, I'm guessing, at 24 miles. Crowns or something. I have to argue with you a little bit about whether it's possible to operate this kind of activity when it's run by a state credit agency, which is the Homolka case. I have experience here that she has to follow Law No. 219 on budgetary rules, 219/2000 on the property of the Czech Republic, and 218 on budgetary rules, or maybe I'm turning it around. And here's the basic problem that we're dealing with with with these big state-owned companies that are like a contribution organization today and every day. They simply cannot operate in a normal market environment because they are covered by a lot of other regulations, bans and regulations that do not effectively allow them to do so. And regardless of the fact that there's still the basic problem that we're dealing with, like, in this case, with what Homolka Premium Care was offering. Because frankly, you can't pay for something covered by hospital health insurance. It's something else with a private stock company. There's this problem that you'll immediately come across that you can sell preventive programs, but frankly, most of the patients in that hospital, I imagine they'll get through these things early on for treatment, which I can't. I can't do it with a state credit card. Honestly, I don't think it's gonna work with the stockade either. From my point of view, it is most ideal today to continue what the government has decided by its resolution, which I have not been to. It's from July 7, 2016. However, I am already implementing what has been approved by the government. And it's better to get some of that money out of it by selling shares, because I think the new buyer is mainly about the client file that he's probably gonna buy with it, which is gonna be very bonita clients that he's probably gonna be offering some medical programs for what he's probably already running, because I don't expect someone who's not doing anything to buy it. But I'm saying, the problem... I would be the last person to oppose any state contribution, i.e. a faculty hospital, a big hospital, having some kind of profitable program. I'm in for ten of them right now. But the problem is, from our experience, when we spent three years researching at Motol, how we could actually do it, we found that we couldn't. It would really only go through the daughter that the state contribution can't have more or less. There are two things: these daughters really must be disposed of with regard to the law on state property and, at the same time, the activity that was profitable at that time will probably not be going on much longer. You know, we've always said in health care, you've probably come from the Zlín Region, if I'm not mistaken that Homolka was such a Slušovice of Czech health care. And what the Slušovice were doing in the previous regime, that they were going a little out of order, in a way it worked on Homolka, and today it's going back to normal. That's the whole problem.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u126	Thank you, Minister. Is the Member interested in an additional question? He does. Your time. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u127	Thank you for your answer, Minister. But that government resolution says those subsidiaries are to be liquidated. This is a grandson's company, so the resolution does not apply to the grandson's company. And it's just that in my opinion, a company that makes a quarter, that means a quarter of sales is profit, so I think it's nonsense to sell it. If the sales are 28 miles. CZK per year, profit is 7 million, half of which goes to the board members and the board of directors, so I think it's nonsense to sell it for 24 million, because whoever buys it has it back in three and a half years. That's a bad sale. And the State Property Act, yes, but at that time, in 2010, how could such a joint-stock company have been created under the State Property Act within a contribution organization? Was it with the approval of the Treasury? That's what I'm asking if it could even have come out. But there are other options for the liquidation of the stock company, the cancellation. [[Time warning]] It could be transferred to a parent company. It doesn't have to be destroyed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u128	The Minister is interested in an additional answer. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u129	Again, the moment it goes to Homolka, it just won't make any money. That's the whole problem I'm talking about. And the second thing is, it's grandson's. If I merge it with the daughter, we're gonna destroy the daughter anyway. The question you asked is legitimate. How is it possible that no one else could and just Homolka could? I think that's a very legitimate question, perhaps another question, which, after all, appears around Homolka. But I'm saying, at this point, it's just that... I can guarantee you with the practice that I have that the moment you transfer it to Homolka, it's gonna go according to the laws that govern Homolka, so it's just not gonna make any money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u130	Thank you. He will be the next to perform with his interview by Mrs Pavla Golasowská. Please, madam, bring your intervention to the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u131	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ten months ago, I intervened with you in connection with the lack of prison sites and the related acquisition of electronic bracelets that would at least partially improve this situation. Now, after almost a year, I have a question for you. First of all, what does it look like to put electrical and electronic bracelets into practice, what is the current situation? Two. How you want to resolve in the future the residential capacity of prisons, which is already unbearable today, when we have more than 2,000 prisoners in prisons above the capacity limit. And thirdly, whether you expect to extend alternative punishments in the future, which would at least help this unhappy situation in prison. If so, then for what group of convicts. Thank you for answering my questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u132	I thank you, Madame, and I ask the Minister to answer the question. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to answer all these questions at the desired time. As far as electronic bracelets are concerned, as we announced yesterday, we have successfully selected suppliers of electronic bracelets for, I must say, a very satisfactory price, which exceeded our most optimistic estimates. That's the good news. At the same time, I still have to say - I don't want to jinx it, because the others have 15 days to object, and we don't know yet whether or not they will, we believe they don't, because we don't think they have a reason to, but you know how these things work. So it can delay us. If they do not object, they will accept the result, so in those 15 days the contract will be signed and then there will be an analysis or an accurate discussion as to how the system will be implemented. Anyway, it should be implemented by the end of this year. As far as the second question is concerned, that means what about overcrowded prisons. Although we have a permanent development of a number of investment events currently at some stage of planning investment preparation or even construction, a total of, as far as I know, 19 events of total capacity... hold, two and a half thousand people. The late ones are planned by the end of 2020. But unfortunately, that doesn't exactly help us, because at the same time, according to the predictions, we're worried that by this time, the two and a half thousand people will rise again. So far we're doing well, I'd say keeping up with the development, that is, keeping the prisons full of power at the same level, because unfortunately, it's been sleeping here, and when criminal policy has changed significantly in 2010 and sanctions have been tightened, which we still have the effects, no one thought it would be necessary to put the prisoners somewhere when we condemn them. [[16.50 hours]] For this reason we have also taken a historically unique step with us, i.e. We plan to build a brand-new large prison in a green meadow. For comparison, we only have two of them, only two of our more than 30 prisons were built like prisons. They are Pilsner Bory and Prague Pankrác and they are both constructions from Austria-Hungary. So in the history of our entire modern state, it would be the first time we'd built a prison. Right now, as soon as I'm done here, I'm leaving for a meeting with the Bavarian and Saxon minister. They're both behind the construction of new modern prisons, and I'm going to ask them if they'd be willing to give us plans under any conditions, so we don't have to make it up here, because we don't really have any experts on that, they've been dead since Austria-Hungary. And as far as alternative punishments are concerned, we are very supportive of them in all areas. It's not just electronic bracelets. There are also cash penalties where we have a catastrophically low amount of cash penalties at the moment. We have made some legislative changes, which this House has approved in recent months and years, which should increase the imposition of cash penalties. To remind you, the last thing was that it would be possible to satisfy the victims of those crimes from the proceeds of the cash penalty, which, as we are communicating with the judges, greatly increases the willingness of the judges to use this punishment, because today they feel that when they impose it, they will actually withdraw the means from which they could heal the damage. At the same time, the Supreme Attorney General, along with the Supreme Court, is going around the judicial regions and reminds of cash penalties and other alternative penalties, advises on how to impose them and when to impose them. So, both in the awareness section and in the legislative section, we are doing everything we can to increase the proportion of alternative punishments, because it is necessary. Last but not least - or last but not least, I am running out of time to mention our entire concept of prisons, which should reduce relapse in the long term, and thus also do something about the overcrowding of prisons.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u134	There. The answer was time-consuming. Thank you. Is the honourable Member interested in a supplementary question? He does. So, madam, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u135	I'd just like to add, Mr. Minister, to the time frame in which the construction of the new prison might be possible, if you have any idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u136	The Minister will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u137	This is, of course, a long run that will go beyond not only this term, but also the next one. In our experience, this kind of thing lasts six, seven, eight years when everything goes well. We want to speed it up, too, by getting those plans from the Němec, because, of course, project preparation takes a lot of time. But it is clear that this must be the continuous will of other governments as well. But that's no reason for me not to start.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u138	Thank you, Minister. Next, Mr. Jiří Koubek, who was drawn as the thirteenth, will be prepared by Mr. Jan Zahradník. Mr Koubek is intersecting the present Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u139	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, thank you for being here. On 8 December, I interviewed you for the first time on the issue of exports of Slavic Epics to Asia, and on that occasion I asked you to provide me with correspondence between your office and our leading restorers who were concerned about the Slavic Epics and the opinions that are being made about it. Supposedly, this correspondence from their side remained unanswered to you. You promised me correspondence during the interview with these words - I quote: "As for the correspondence that has been mentioned here, of course I will deliver this correspondence to you and deliver it." So unfortunately, February 23rd, and still nothing. Well, Minister, I don't know if you're keeping anything from us. Second thing. Still, I got an opinion from Mr. Michal Tomek. Allegedly, based on this assessment, you gave your consent to the export of epope to Japan. I have to say, I'm a little surprised, although I'm a layman. If there are 21 lines that don't have basically any formalities, maybe it was sent electronically, a data box that doesn't have a signature missing, there's no license number for an academic painter, there's no search record of how he did it, visually, from photo documentation, whether he was swabbing and other operations that the experts were asking you, by the way, I'm surprised that 21 lines were enough to get you to agree that the Epic could travel to Japan. There is no need to mention that four canvases from that cycle have long been known to be very damaged. There's no line to that. So I'd like you to comment on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u140	Thank you. The word is from the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, honourable Member, the Ministry of Culture, as the competent authority of the state administration, has granted, at the request of the Gallery hl. m. Prague pursuant to § 20 of Act No. 20/1978 Coll., on State Monument Care, as amended, prior consent to export 20 paintings of Alfons Mucha Slavic Epic to Japan. The consent was granted for the period from 1 January 2017 to 15 August 2017, i.e. for the period of transport to Japan, the duration of the exhibition and transport back to the territory of the Czech Republic. The Ministry of Culture will monitor very closely both the state of these works of art and the course of handling them, including compliance with export authorisation deadlines. I would like to point out that comprehensive care for the Slavic Epic is continuously provided by experts Gallery hl. m. Prague, so the condition of all works of art is sufficiently checked and known. Despite this, Mr. Michal Tomek, an academic painter and restorer, examined the Slavská epopej series of paintings as part of the export authorisation procedure abroad. He stated that paintings are in very good technical condition due to their age and history. This is due in particular to the fact that Alfons Mucha, in addition to having excellent artistic abilities, also chose suitable painting techniques for a given purpose. On the other hand, the Ministry of Culture evaluated the request of Gallery hl. m. Prague for export to China of Slavic Epics at risk and informed the applicant that the request for possible exports to China would be necessary to precise. The Ministry of Culture is currently gathering information on museums where the Epic should be displayed in China. The dates of the display of epopy in individual museums are not yet specified, and many other things, e.g. the method and conditions of transfers are unclear. Finally, it can be said that the Ministry of Culture will thoroughly evaluate the state of the art after returning from Japan. In this situation, the Ministry of Culture cannot issue a Slavic Epeje export permit to China. In connection with the examination of exports of the Slavic Epic, the Ministry of Culture carefully addressed all the suggestions and arguments put forward by the expert public in the administrative proceedings and decided on this matter, as already stated. I would like to conclude by saying that in the course of the Year of Czech Culture, which is due for this year, 2017, in Japan, I will be attending the opening ceremony of the exhibition of Mucho's Slavic Epic, which is the main event of these celebrations at the beginning of March. Personally, along with other members of the delegation, I will get to know all the essential aspects of the care of the Slavic Epic directly in Japan. As regards the transmission of correspondence, I apologise for not having done so. I've brought you an interpelling of correspondence, which I will hand over to you immediately after the end of the post. And as far as self-management is concerned. As I said, there has been an administrative procedure where all the arguments have been examined, and I have no doubt that there has been no breach of any of the rules to be respected. Anyway, thank you for your concern and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u142	Thank you, Minister. Ambassador, are you interested in a follow-up question? [[Yes.]] You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u143	Thank you, Minister, especially for trying to answer my questions at the end, because otherwise it was a bit of a school exercise about how you can read. Basically, you confirmed that only on the basis of this 21-row assessment, which is processed in a very lay way, I would say, with all due respect to Mr. academic painter and restorer, who does not have the necessary requirements, you decided to export it. I think that's quite fatal. As far as exports to China are concerned, you said - I quote: "There are no other Asian countries, but only these exports to Japan, where all care is guaranteed professionally and any other as regards transport." So now you admit that it could get back to China. I would like to point out in this context that at the turn of 2017/2018 Gallery hl is going to be here. m. Prague exhibition of two works or two artists from China. Isn't it already arranged reciprocally that the epic really doesn't fly back from Japan to the Czech Republic, but it gets to China?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u144	Your time, Minister. Sorry, sorry, Mr. Ambassador. [[- Thank you. I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] Will the Minister respond? If so, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u145	Yes, thank you. I can actually read, I guess, since 1969, when I started elementary school, and I really don't want to be an expert. I fully trust those who work in Gallery hl. m. Prague continuously explores Slavic Epic, and all those who guarantee that it is able to export. And as for China, I'm repeating what I just said here. In the present situation, the Ministry of Culture cannot issue a decision on the authorisation of exports of Slavic Epics to China. This means nothing like what has been indicated here is going to happen and Slavic Epic will be again in Prague after the export to Japan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u146	Thank you, Minister. Now let me just briefly read the apology of my colleague Věra Kovářová, who apologizes for working reasons today from 16.30 to the end of the day. Mr Jan zahradník will speak next with his intervention. The Member will present his intervention to the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, on January 16th, the tripartite decided to reject the anti-Fossil law, and you publicly promised to propose to the government to postpone it. The subject matter of the Anti-Fossil Act, I recall, was the acceptance of an undertaking beyond the state energy concept, namely the setting of a binding emission reduction target of 80 per cent by 2050, compared to 1990. On January 6, you approached the members of the tripartite with the letter in which you stated - I quote: The findings of the study showed that the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in the Czech Republic by 80 per cent by 2050 compared to 1990 is possible, but is linked to significant costs. The Energy Institute in Brno states in its opinion: Based on the analyses it cannot be argued that the reduction of emissions by 80 per cent in 2050 is impossible, but the analyses suggest that such reductions will at least be very costly and that there are consequences for economic growth that could be slower than in conservative scenarios. I would now like to confront the climate policy that the government took note of in June 2016 and put forward a proposal to the SEA process, where its assessment is coming to an end. Climate protection policy sets the main indicative objective, namely the linear trajectory for the period 2030 to 2050 is then proposed with regard to the projected maximum level of emissions of the Czech Republic in 2050 corresponding to at least 80% of the reduction in emissions compared to 1990. So my question is: will the government promote this goal in climate protection policy despite the rejection of anti-fossil law? If not, will climate policy be corrected in this sense? And if so, isn't the promise of tripartite just a political promise, and your ministry is looking for other, more hidden ways to pursue this goal, knowing that for the Czech economy it can be annihilated? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u148	We're running out of time. The Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Serious yes, colleagues, thank you for the question. [[The speaker looks around to see if there are women among the 13 people present in the hall]] I want to assure you, my colleague, by your means, Mr President, that we are certainly not looking for any hidden paths. I made it clear that if the condition which is also in the government's programming declaration is not fulfilled, that means that it should not have any approval of the Anti-Fossil Act, or even have any effect on the competitiveness of the Czech Republic, so that I will not submit the Anti-Fossil Act, even without the tripartite opinion. The position of tripartite really played a very minor role in this. Moreover, there is another very important aspect, and that is that it is really about how it will proceed, or how other CO2 reduction targets will be set within the European Union, and now the European Union is actually deciding, and it will undoubtedly discuss it for several years, because we are talking about targets after 2030. Moreover, the Czech Republic is quite successfully following the trajectory that is needed. So climate policy today only mentions this objective indicatively for one reason only, that this objective was actually mentioned in approved materials already in 2009 at European Union level, where it is said that it is possible that further follow-up targets by 2050 to 80 percent will be set after 2030. So climate protection policy will certainly not contain any specific instruments for 2050 or targets, it only speaks really indicatively that there is a debate in the European Union on whether the target in 2050, very remote and very indicative, but the 80 percent reduction in CO2 emissions compared to 1990, is real or is not real. That is why we are also mentioning this because we consider it serious to mention this matter. Nothing more, nothing less. This climate policy really talks about the 2020 perspective, respectively. 2030 and sets specific targets as well as specific means or tools for the Czech Republic to meet these targets in 2020 and 2030, which we will undoubtedly succeed because we have already managed to reduce CO2 emissions by 37 percent in 2015, so we will undoubtedly achieve the 40% target in 2030. If that's enough for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u150	Thank you, Minister. The Member will now ask an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u151	Thank you, Mr President. I have one more supplementary question, Minister. Will the government, knowing the impact of these energy chimeras on our economy, continue to promote ratification of the Paris Agreement? [[Minister Brabec from his bench: Bud.]] The minister says he will. So thank you so much for this very unpleasant, negative answer for me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u152	We have also dealt with the answer to the supplementary question. Thank you. Next, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková was drawn. Mr. Jiří Petrů will be ready. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u153	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. We're gonna put you in a row here, Mr. Secretary. But I think I have a clear question. I think you're expecting him. Your Waste Act was probably one of the priorities of the Ministry. And yet, the end of the term is near, the law is still not, the mayors are waiting for him, which is why I want to ask you what the law looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u154	Thank you, that was a very briefly formulated question. And the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u155	Thank you for the question. Yes, she was clear, brief. I've also made it clear several times, and I'm sure my colleague has noticed that the laws are set up today, there are two of them. It's a waste law and another law that we tenderly call "strength" because it's an end-of-life act. And these two laws are prepared. However, since we are realists and pragmatists, we have simply clearly realized that at this moment there is not very likely a force that would be able to make them even this Chamber of Deputies prove, virtually, to the Chamber of Deputies, the senát, so that the law is able to complete the legislative process during this parliamentary term. That is why we have decided that at this time we will work with those key players, there are still a few things left in quotation marks with the Union of Towns and Communities, the Confederation of Industry, the Chamber of Economics and other professional associations to complete this law or these laws, to prepare them, to complete them so that they are prepared for the next government. You are absolutely right, mayors, and I am talking to them very often, I have spoken with hundreds of mayors over the last few months, I am informing them of this and I assure them that there will be enough time and that there will be room for it, if necessary, to amend the law so that mayors of cities and municipalities can prepare for any fundamental change that follows from this law and which will certainly be aimed at reducing landfilling, which I think is a general principle that will definitely be there today. About the specific amount of fees, let's say what other instruments will be used there, including motivations, including the possibilities of using the "pay how much you throw out" password, which is probably the keyword we're promoting there today, so it will all be arranged so that any or definitely delay in the law, its effectiveness, is taken into account for example. even in the possibility of shifting some of the terms that are proposed in the law. I would just like to emphasise one thing: the key changes that we have actually promised have already been incorporated or incorporated into the amendment, the amendment to the Waste Act, which is already in force today. Thus the end of landfilling in 2024, mandatory collection of biodegradable municipal waste and other and other things that we promised. So I firmly believe that it will be real to no later than 1. 1. 2019 a new Waste Act has entered into force. And I firmly believe that whatever the new government will eventually be, it will use what we have prepared, because I think that there is no other way in which the Czech Republic can go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u156	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member will ask an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u157	You, Minister, have amused me a little, because you said that the Chamber of Deputies might not be able to discuss this legislatively. I'm afraid this House could do a lot more in ten months, and maybe too much in vain. But as far as the Waste Act is concerned, I think you underestimated the preparation a little, because that law should have been passed to us a long time ago. When you were at the press conference talking about your priorities for 2017, you didn't tactfully mention him there, I don't blame you, I wouldn't bring it up either, because it's really a problem. So I don't have a question, I just want to tell you and ask you to work really hard on it, because the law is really needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u158	Thank you. The Minister will no longer respond, no question has been asked. So, Mr. Jiří Petrů will speak with another interview, Mrs. Nina Nováková will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u159	Dear Minister, in July last year, you informed the public that underground water reserves are declining in the Czech Republic, and therefore the municipalities will receive a subsidy for new and reconnaissance wells to find new sources of drinking water. The Ministry of Environment has announced a programme in which it is intended to promote sufficient quality drinking water in the Czech Republic, and within the framework of the call from the National Environment Programme, municipalities can divide up to 300 miles, as was said at the press conference. Crowns. Therefore, I would like to ask you what logic the Ministry of Environment has for the extraction of gravel sandstone by a private entity in Uherský Ostroh, in the second zone of the water source Bzenec located in the protected area of natural water accumulation of the Quarter of the Moravia River. Mining is expected to reach up to 400 thousand. tons of gravel sand per year. In 2007, a negative opinion on the project was given in the environmental impact assessment, clearly negative. In 2012 the discussion of the project was completed for the second time without giving an opinion, but in 2015 your ministry issued a positive opinion. The paradox is that this opinion contains 58 conditions, i.e. the Ministry of the Environment defines 58 risks itself. What was so strong, what was the driving force of changing your ministry's opinion, when the opinion of more than 57 municipalities with more than 140 thousand. the region's population is strongly negative and expressed their opinion in petitions? I have also personally participated in several meetings, expert presentations, which clearly classify this intention as a high risk with negative impact on groundwater sources. However, thanks to the positive opinion of your ministry, proceedings are already under way at the Mining Authority to determine the period space. Minister, what is this really about? Whose interests, then, is the Ministry of the Environment defending? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u160	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. May I have the floor of the Minister of the Environment, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u161	Thank you for the floor and the question. This time, in contrast to the two previous questions, I have taken notes, because it is the intention which, my fellow Member, by your means, Mr President, I am also interested in. And I can tell you that I've taken care of him personally. Because there really was a big discussion about it. I would just very briefly correct some of the data in your question, which was not quite accurate. The plan isn't 400 thousand. tons per year, it's a maximum of 200 thousand. tonnes per year. Capacity 400 thousand. the tonnes were originally proposed in 2006, but this was the process, which was then completed in March, and this value is no longer up to date. And it's not the most important thing. It is not even true that a negative view of the project has been given. No opinion has ever been given. Both processes have been terminated, stopped in the past. Neither was completed and both were actually terminated at the request of the notifier. So he actually took it back. Only - and I think it is the main and most important - the Ministry does not, of course, promote any mining, because we are in any such case, and we assess thousands of them annually, we are the competent authority to carry out the EIA process, as we all know the word very well. In other words, of course, there is no interest and the EIA process clearly follows, because it is a process given by law and its parameters are clear that all health and environmental effects must be assessed. The risks, the 58 risks you're talking about, they're not the risks, they're the so-called. the conditions that are normally given in the case of a favourable opinion, and even more, perhaps up to a hundred in some projects, because these are the conditions of the EIA opinion, which then serve to minimise or exclude the impact of projects on the environment and health. These conditions are e.g. monitoring of groundwater, provision of hydraulic barrier, etc., etc. On your objection or commentary, I meet with it normally in many other processes. In the EIA process, according to the law, the effects of the project on the environment and public health are assessed significantly and in principle exclusively. Professionally and objectively. And unfortunately, the conclusions of these evaluations, I said a word there, unfortunately, but it may be redundant, they can't follow the petitions or, in fact, any interest, whether for or against the view of the region. Because we're not from it like the M.E. to evaluate whether anyone likes it or not, and I'm really meeting it in dozens of cases. We simply need to evaluate the impact on the environment and health there. [[17.20 hours]] And now I think it's the main thing. In fact, there was no negative effect on groundwater from the study, documentation and assessment. It was subsequently drawn up in the context of comments by the parties concerned - the situation was presented, respectively. study by VaK Hodonín, which came to the opposite conclusions. Therefore, we have had another hydrogeological assessment, so-called, to be absolutely above standard and beyond normal responsibilities and normal process and also in the interest of precautionary care. arbitration, which responded to the different conclusions of VaK Hodonín and the submitted intentions. The new assessment confirmed in full the conclusions of the original assessment, which was actually given - I stress that the assessment was actually selected from an entirely independent processor, and confirmed that drinking water cannot be threatened. So we are now in a situation where there were actually two assessments, one assessment within the EIA process and one arbitration, in both cases from renowned companies that make these assessments from the hydrogeology point of view, and they both said that the intention could have no negative effect on drinking water sources, and that there is absolutely no threat that drinking water sources would actually be irreversibly threatened. And then VAK Hodonín's opinion, which speaks of something else. Of course, such cases are also relatively common, but in this case, we are always doing some arbitration if something like this happens. From that hydrogeological point of view - [[Your time, Minister. You're time-consuming.]] Sorry, I'm not doing this anymore. If the colleague has an additional question, I will use it briefly to complete it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u162	Thank you. The Member is interested in an additional question. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u163	Mr President, it will not be a question, it is rather an addition for the Minister. The fact that I have stated that a negative opinion has been given, of course, is supported by the materials available to me. And the material from 10 January 2007 clearly states - it is signed by the director of the Water Protection Department doktor Hodovskýý that the conclusion is this: on the basis of the submitted conditions, which must be observed to protect surface and groundwater in the field of extraction and treatment of gravel chips in Uherské Ostroh, the Department of Water Protection of the Ministry of the Environment does not recommend this intention to be implemented. And the last one. An assessment was prepared which was commissioned by the South Moravian Region, processed by Geotest Brno. Then I would ask you, Minister, to meet him, because this is an opinion that really considers the extraction of gravel chips very risky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u164	Thank you, too. The Minister of the Environment will respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u165	I assure you, I'll get to know this in any case. But I will use at least the remaining time to make one key statement, which we actually said in the negotiations, because of course we were there personally, my people were there, we talked to the county, we talked to VaK Hodonin, with other people, we were there with our experts. The main permit for the location and execution of the intention will therefore be issued by the local district Mining Authority. The hearing - or proceedings are now suspended for completion and additional documents. But the crucial fact is that the city of Uherský Ostroh is the owner of the land on which mining is planned, and the decision of the city of Uherský Ostroh will be absolutely crucial. 'Cause if it's like that, and I've taken it that way, it's not gonna allow the mining on my land, it's not gonna be there. In fact, we have been saying for a year that the city of Uherský Ostroh has absolutely in its hands, and it seemed a little hypocritical that they are hiding behind the position of the EIA, for which we actually guarantee that it is professionally correct, but they can stop the mining themselves very easily and without further steps by not providing their land. So I think this is important. And believe that the issue of the quality of drinking water and its provision, or intrepidness, is so crucial to us that in these cases, we always work on the system three times, one cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u166	Thank you. Mrs Nina Nováková will speak with the next interview. Mr. Petr Bendl will be ready. Madam, give your interview to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u167	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, my question concerns the leisure activities of children who use their leisure time in clubs, associations, organizations such as Scout, Junák, League of Forest Wisdom, tourist clubs. When we approved the budget and it was about the budget, there was no successful request that several tens of millions be released for these leisure activities. This is not a high amount for the budget, but it is often fatal for these clubs. These clubs, these leisure activities have basically three basic properties. The one is that they can combine the increased physical prowess that develops in children, but also the moral development of the personality. The second property is - all of these activities are very low on spatial equipment and material equipment. And the third - all of these activities are led by people who are enthusiasts and who can relax from their free time in order to take care of their children. It's something very rare for our society. And if these organizations don't get, if they split it up, de facto small amounts, then unfortunately their activity is at risk. I ask the Minister whether these organisations have the hope that they will be able to continue their activities this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u168	Thank you, Madame. Madam Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u169	Mr President, honourable Members, let me respond. Of course, I have dealt with the situation of strengthening the budget of youth organisations, or if you want to support leisure activities through youth organisations that have been mentioned here. However, I have limited options, because paradoxically, although I have 50 million crowns at my disposal, I cannot alone increase the indicator of support for youth organisations. It is actually a technical budget operation. For this reason, I was forced to ask the Ministry of Finance to strengthen our budget for 50 million to the General Treasury, and this request was rejected by the Ministry of Finance, and it was opposed. By doing so, I have exhausted the technical possibility through the Ministry of Finance, and now I have only one option, that is to ask the Government's approval to change the indicator by CZK 50 million and then obtain the approval of the Committee on Budgets. Which, of course, is very unpleasant, because it means, not that they are completely without the youth organisation's money, but there will be no increase, which they were used to in the past and the previous year, when the Ministry of Education supported the leisure activities. I am here to promise that I will try to remedy this as quickly as possible, and once again I will deal with the Minister of Finance, if we both cannot find a common solution. It cannot be excluded that, in the case of the Ministry of Finance, the official noticed and the Minister of Finance was therefore not fully informed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u170	Thank you. The honourable Member has an interest in asking an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u171	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This is not an additional question. Just take it that really from parents who are happy that someone cares for their children meaningfully, take it that it is a kind of social pressure that is now being discussed at the level of the regions, because the regions also cannot do it all financially. There is often such competition between these leisure activities and the promotion of sport. Please take it that the public is waiting to see if the government - I have no doubt that the Budget Committee would approve - and the public is waiting to see if the government stands up to it properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u172	Thank you. Madam Secretary will no longer respond. In that case, I'll ask the MP - or he'll be... It will be.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u173	Of course, the government will take the right approach.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u174	[[With laughter.]] Okay, thank you. So Mr. Petr Bendl will give us an interview with the absent finance minister Andrej Babiš. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u175	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President of the Government, Minister of Finance, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, you spoke very critically about the fact that the State owns a number of real estates that use inefficiently, that there are a number of state authorities that lease some premises unnecessarily and could possibly exist in the premises that belong to the State, thus making inefficient use of property owned by the State. I would like to ask if it has been three years since then, something has happened in this matter. Whether there's an analysis or what you've pushed or done in this area. At the same time, I would like to ask how this analysis, or this interest in the efficiency of the use of real estate, meets with the fact that the Directorate-General of the Forests of the Czech Republic has decided to build a new centre for approximately 200 officials for half a billion crowns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u176	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The reply to this interpelation will be sent to you in writing within 30 days. Next up, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will speak with his intervention on the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. Mrs. Pavla Golasowská will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u177	Thank you for the floor. Minister, I want to ask you about the financial statements of the Royal Vinohrady FN, because the deadline for 2015 has not yet been published on the hospital's website. And since I am aware that there was a forensic audit in this hospital in 2015, I would like to ask for this audit to be lent and some serious information from this audit, if you are aware of the results. As far as I know, the financial plan for 2015 was negative 244 miles. CZK, but this one was not accepted by the Ministry of Health. So what happened to the particular economic outcome of the hospital and whether you took any measures based on the forensic audit. I would also like to ask if you consider it right that hospitals use external companies to award public contracts. In the past it was the company CBG-Consult, currently it is the company Bohemia Belle a.s. If there's any experience, and if you think that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u178	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u179	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that an audit has been carried out, but not forensics. There was a process audit. So it's a little different than a forensic audit. On the basis of the results in 2016, the Ministry of Health's administrative control was carried out and resulted in some corrective measures. It is fully monitored and we can prepare the report. (?) I am therefore informed that the financial statements of the FN KV were published in a standard manner through the Treasury Information System and that it was publicly available and audited by Alter Audit. So maybe we're in some kind of conflict right now, and we need to sort of clear this up a little bit, because it should be, basically, for some 20th April, there should be a deadline for 2016, I suppose. So if you're asking about 2015, she really should be there by now, and I assume she's there. As far as those long-term public contracts are concerned, I was surprised myself that Vinohrady was still doing it through external firms. I spoke to the director about this, and I strongly advised him to dramatically strengthen the public procurement department, because the Supreme Administrative Court's decision to do so is to do so with his own efforts. So I suppose-- and I'm gonna talk about it, because next week and next week, I'm gonna have the director directly run by the organization. I'll ask that question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u180	Minister, thank you. I ask if the Member is interested in an additional question. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u181	Thank you. Maybe I found that deadline on the hospital website. But if it's not on the hospital's website, maybe it's somewhere else. I'll try to track her down. In any case, I would like to ask for the results of the audit, because I think there were major problems in that hospital for Director Zeman, which then resulted in misrepresentation of the economic result of the transfer of funds from investments to cover the operating result. And I'd like to ask you just how the forensics audit that was entering, I don't know if it was the Ministry of Health or the hospital, whether the findings contributed to the hospital's standard management and that the biggest problems found by the audit were eliminated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Minister will no longer respond to additional answers. The next one will give her interview to Mrs Pavla Golasowská. Mr Simeon Karamazov will be ready. Madame Lady, you have the floor. Give your interpellation to the Minister of Health, Miloslav Ludvík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u183	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I'm meeting with public comments on the coroner's service, precisely to a long wait period before the coroner arrives to examine the deceased. I have to say, I contacted the coroner myself when my father died this January, and the waiting period for him was only an hour and a quarter. However, according to the reports of the employees of the funeral service in the Moravian-Silesian Region, there are cases where this waiting period reaches six or more hours. For many family members or those who spend such a long time in the presence of the deceased, this situation is stressful and unbearable not only from the point of view of psychological burden, but also from the point of view of hygiene, especially if this happens in the summer hot months. That is why I have to ask you, Minister, how the coroner's services are now covered in the entire territory of the Republic and what measures and how you prepare these services to be comfortable for both the survivors and the deceased. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u184	Thank you, Madame. And the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u185	Mr President, Madam, this is indeed a very, very sensitive subject. It is true that the procedure for the death of a person or the finding of the body of a deceased outside the medical facility is governed by Act 372/2011 on health services and the conditions for their provision. The term "coroner" refers to a provider or doctor who provides a tour of the bodies of persons deceased outside a medical facility and with whom the region has entered into an appropriate contract for that purpose, which is important because the provision of time and local availability of coroner services is not in Government Regulation No. 307/2012 Coll., on the local and temporal availability of health services, explicitly adjusted. The county is responsible for organising and ensuring search of the bodies of the deceased and thus ensuring adequate time and local availability of coroner services. So solving possible complaints and insufficient provision of time and local availability is unfortunately in the competence of the region at the moment and must be addressed to the region. In general, the autopsy and the things associated with it are covered by health insurance. But if your question was to secure the coroner's services, then basically he's very often organized as part of the medical rescue service of the relevant county. In that case, it is important to contact the founder directly, which is usually the region, in Prague, the capital city of Prague, and to raise this question to them. I have a similar experience to yours. When my father died, I waited about three or four hours in a similar way. So I know that's a problem. It's not easy to get a doctor at all. It's a very unhappy and ungrateful job. Plus, sometimes under pretty awful conditions. But I'm saying, it's a question, it's a question of reaching out to the county, because frankly, she's more of a financial question, because I'm saying, it's not easy to find doctors who do this at all. It is not even considered yet if such a question were to be raised as to whether or not the time availability will be adjusted in any way. So far, I can take this as an incentive for us to think about this in any amendment to the Order on temporal and factual availability. But I say again, the problem is that we're going to interfere with someone else's competence, the region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u186	Thank you, Minister. The honourable Member is not interested in an additional question. Mr Karamazov will give another interview. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr Novotný will be prepared because further interventions have been withdrawn. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u187	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, our country has a strong tradition in rail transport, even one of the densest rail networks in the world. Nevertheless, the railway network is already at the limit of its capacity. In addition to personal connections, there is simply not much capacity left for freight trains. I therefore ask whether your ministry addresses the capacity of the railway network and, if so, what concrete steps we can expect in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u188	Thank you for a very brief question. Mr. Transport Minister Dan Ťok has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u189	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members, I thank you for the question. Yes, it is true that the Czech Republic has the densest rail network per capita in Europe. It is due to its history and the reason it was created in Austria-Hungary. I'll be with you and I won't agree. Of course, the network is very used here in some places, in some places very little is used. The Railway Infrastructure Administration is legally obliged to take care of all railway lines, even those which are very little used or almost not used for both freight and passenger transport. However, what happened to us is that on the lines between Prague and Ostrava, in such a not-quite-managed way as part of the law that is in our country, commercial carriers started to ride, which overcrowded this track both express trains and express trains, so regional transport also gets there. You are right that on these lines freight transport has relatively few chances to apply at other times than at night. What are we gonna do? There are several moments. Firstly, we will continue to modernise corridors so as to increase their capacity. That's the first step. The second step, and I would say the longer term, is that we are counting on building high-speed lines, where passenger transport should, above all, go, which means that capacity on the lines of classic freight transport should be released. The third thing is that on these dense lines, where it is commercial, we now have a regulator that should look at economic justification, whether this line is used in a way that does not discriminate against any kind of transport. This will certainly be dealt with by one of the carriers, or perhaps by Cargo, and will have to deal with it in some way. The fact is, as we've had laws since 2000, and according to our laws, which are one of the most liberalized in Europe at this point, so whoever says he wants to go commercial on any track, and if SŽDC doesn't have the track 100% busy, he has to give them the capacity, and that's the option. So I'm assuming that the regulator could interfere with these things. From 1. 4. it will start to work, and I'm sure one of the submissions I'm expecting will be this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u190	Thank you, Minister. The Member shall ask an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u191	Minister, thank you for your clear answer. You were talking about building high-speed lines. Now I'm just going to ask in layman's terms - does that mean building more railroad tracks or any modernization?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u192	You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u193	In our concept, which we will introduce, it should first be the construction of new lines in new corridors, that is, it should not be the use of existing corridors. In some places it may be the addition of the track, but the increase in capacity would be on the new routes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u194	Thank you. Next in line is the interview number 23 by Mrs Nováková, who, however, withdrew her intervention from me a moment ago. Next in line is the interpelation of 24 Mr Antonín Sed. He also withdrew his interpelation to Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. The next intervention is an interpelation number 25, which should be given by Mr Martin Novotný. You have your word. Mr. Jiří Koubek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u195	Dear absent Minister, I appeal to you with some doubt as to whether this conversion is correct from the point of view of address. It is based only on a model of responsibility in the government for public limited liability companies. If I had known who else to turn to better, I would have done so, but I have no clarity which is the right minister to turn to. What's going on? In recent months, there have been a number of signals that ČEZ's customer system has almost collapsed, especially in relation to standard customers, to households and ordinary customers. Not only myself, but many citizens have experienced that, in no reasonable time, the electric meter can be converted into a new person in the event of moving, changing tariffs, for example, when using other tariffs, heat pumps, etc. The company takes over citizens' requests for various actions as a standard, and although they contain all the relevant data, such as electrometer states, its system is unable to respond to this. Billings are made based on distance estimates. In the case of a joint-stock company of such great importance, value and reputation as ČEZ, it seems to me that its customer system has found itself at the level of a "hungry window" and customer service in the 19th century, it seems to me that despite the limited capacity of the state to address this issue here, there is a relatively significant reputation risk for the state in what condition the customer service of this company has been. I would therefore ask you to examine this situation and see if it is resolved urgently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u196	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your interview will be answered in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. Mr. Jiří Koubek, who I don't see in the hall at the moment, will perform with another winning interview, thus failing his intervention. I therefore ask that Mr Petr Bendl present his intervention to the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka on investments in the Forests of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u197	Thank you. Dear almost always absent Minister of Agriculture, I have two questions about investments, contracts of the Forests of the Czech Republic. I already wanted to ask you about the planned investments of the Forests of the Czech Republic abroad, whether it is true that the Forests of the Czech Republic want to buy forests in Romania for about one billion crowns. So I wonder if this plan is correct, or if this information is correct, whether the forests of the Czech Republic are counting on investment abroad or in what volume. And I would also like to know about Kloboucká Forest's contracts for the past six years, what tender she has participated in and whether it is true that the company has been chosen without offering the best prices. According to my information, price offers were moving, like they ended up in second, fourth, or even sixth place. Yet she was chosen. There is some suspicion that this company's procurist is the brother of the CEO of the Forests of the Czech Republic, so I want to disprove all myths that there might be some kind of wrongdoing. So, please, any information relating to the tender that Kloboucká forest company has been involved in in the last six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u198	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The next one was drawn by Mr. Antonín Seďa with his interpellation - he withdrew it. And so we have the interview number 29, experienced by tandem, Mr. Hovorka Ludvík will present his interview na the ministr of zdravotnictví Ludvík Miloslav. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u199	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like to ask if you would like to vote in favour of abolishing the system of back bonuses in Czech health care because I do not know similar systems elsewhere in the world. The experience when hospitals buy medicines or medical devices and then receive part of the price in the form of a return bonus, because they show health insurance companies at the so-called maximum prices, code list prices, is very complicated, and the system obscures. I think it's targeted scams from health insurance companies. Finally, one of these frauds came out in Thomayer's hospital, where basically the cancer drug was reported at a price that was essentially overpriced by 25 percent, respectively the company granted a bonus of 25 percent to Thomayer's hospital. On this basis, the VZP sent letters to the faculty hospital where it requests that medicinal products be reported at real prices, not at code list prices. I would like to ask how you want to stop this phenomenon of Czech health. Because, as far as I know, in the Royal Vinohrady, those return bonuses were around CZK 160 million to CZK 200 million a year, and this, of course, is distorting accounting. In some cases, it improves hospital accounts, in other cases, where there were less honest directors of those organizations, such as Homolca, so the money often went to Cyprus and private pockets. I also want to ask what the Ministry will do to introduce joint purchases into their established hospitals, because we know private chains that can supply their hospitals. [[Time warning]] So why couldn't the Department of Health do it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u200	Thank you. The Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u201	Mr President, colleague of the experienced tandem, I would therefore start with the other one. Well, if the Department of Health were the private company, it would probably be able to buy very efficiently. Except that it does not comply with the Public Procurement Act, the register of contracts, Act No. 106 and many others, which unfortunately complicate it. But I just took a hint. With those back bonuses, I have to protest that this is distorting accounting, because they have to be introduced into the books. It's basically a discount. Now let's see what the reason is. Of course, the discount may be for several reasons. One of them is that not all hospitals obey the law that they pay within 30 days. I'd even say most of them don't. Those who do it tend to be sort of bonized because, of course, they save the company's costs. From my point of view, there is a certain problem between the fact that it is charged at a price list price, and there is a bonus when it concerns a particular medicine or a specific medical device. On the other hand, it is true that this money is usually used to subsidize those health services whose remuneration doesn't usually cover costs. And here we just have to answer the question, if the cure costs a thousand and the health insurance company pays a thousand for it, so basically the hospital that has the cost of the drug, because it stores it, treats it, has qualified pharmacists, etc. etc., so he takes a thousand here from the insurance company and gives it here to the company. She doesn't get anything out of it herself. So one of the solutions to how this practice, which is unfortunate and introduced in 2006, by one of my predecessors, David Rath, is to return the margin, which in other words means that hospitals won't have to live off those back bonuses, but they'll just replace it with a margin. Frankly, it doesn't cost the health service or the crown, but we can make it more transparent. So one of the things we're dealing with is really reintroducing the margin to the drugs that go from pharmacy to hospital, not the pharmacy through the tar. That's one possibility, and we're very serious about it. We need to figure out if it's really gonna bring this thing. The fact is, there's another thing, and that's a big discussion, because kind of the moment that back bonuses disappear and we're going to charge, or we're going to see exactly the prices we're seeing, today maybe we're going to basically record these companies. Because frankly, they're gonna tell each other why we're gonna give them bonuses, we're gonna charge them just for the full prizes. And the estimates are that then, we can get our costs up by billions as well. That's one of the things I'm not happy about, because the idea that the entire payment decree next year, or the increase, is that it's just going to be seen at those prices in this way, so it doesn't make me happy. To some extent, I need to figure out, as Minister of Health, how to really cover the hospital's costs. Ironically, I still have to say that from the point of view of financial control, the hospital behaves badly. Because from the point of view of financial control, if he has the costs of any process, he has to account for them. And that's not an option. It was simply said that when the pharmacy was part of the hospital, the costs were lost somewhere and just cut off. In this way, the so-called savings were saved in 2005 or 2006, but the result is trivial. So we have to sort of fix what's going on today with the reverse bonus principle, and we have to replace it by putting that margin back in. Nothing else. That's a drug case. So it's going to be a bigger problem for medical devices, because I can't imagine how it is there at all, and their care and storage and the cost of technical maintenance are much worse. So I don't think it's a crime. I think it's a lack in the system methodology, and we need to see how to get to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u202	Thank you, Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. It does, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u203	Thank you. Dear Minister, your predecessor, Minister Němeček, even made a commitment in such a system material that would cover the savings in hospitals set up by the Ministry of Health, to the joint purchases. When I asked Deputy Director Landa, he said yes, we're already competing with the joint purchases of medical oxygen. That's what I think is very little in all this time. And it's not true that there's no experience that some hospitals can't set up joint purchases, because as far as I know, South Bohemian hospitals have this experience. It doesn't just have to be the AGEL chain, but I think something similar can work for state hospitals. And all I'm surprised is that the Ministry hasn't established it yet. And besides the system that David Rath introduced, I would also like to draw attention to the system that was in VZP, and these were the purchases of medicines through the insurance company, where it was also possible to prevent these bonuses. [[Attention on time.]] And it worked, for Mrs. Musílková still.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u204	So, will the Minister still respond? It can.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u205	Well, he's a South Bohemian county holding company. If we can agree to transfer the faculty hospitals to the stockade, but you were one of the great opponents of this. And that's the trouble. She's complicated, and I think we can explain her. But those centralised purchases are problematic for one reason only. I'm explaining it to everyone. The moment you buy it for all the hospitals, the prices will be set according to the worst. So the one who has the worst payment morale. So they'll pick up for all the others. That's my basic problem that I'm still dealing with. If there's still medical supplies, it's bought through some centralized organization. But it would not be subject to competitive parameters. It's complicated. But somehow we're dealing with it, and I can imagine it. Something does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-009-294.u206	Thank you, Minister. And it is 18.00, so I thank all those present for their favor on behalf of the House's leadership, as well as the ministers who have stayed with us until even on the day of the meeting, and I am interrupting the meeting until tomorrow 9.00, when we will continue under the properly approved agenda of the meeting, paragraph 218, third reading of the sickness insurance law. Have a good night.
