ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u1	176. Members of Roman Váňa, Milan Chovanec, Igor Jakubčík, Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová, Bronislav Schwarz and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended by the Constitutional Act No. 300/2000 Coll. House printing 1021/ - first reading The Government has not delivered an opinion on this House's press. prosit refer to Mr Roman Váňa for the appellants. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting an amendment to the constitutional law on the security of the Czech Republic, where there is basically only one sentence, one paragraph, where until now the security of the state has been ensured by every natural person, legal person, etc., as mentioned in that paragraph. We now propose extending this to the right, not only the duty, but also the right to defend our country. I recommend that you study the explanatory report because it deals with a lot of confusion, objections, or explains things. The law, I remind you, is different from the one put forward by the Ministry of the Interior as it was redesigned. It is often presented that this proposal is a kind of struggle with the European directive on the restriction of legal possession of weapons. Even if that is not the case, the discussion of this directive was an impulse for us to think about ensuring security in the Czech Republic and propose something that will help security. But let us also see, when we are already talking about a European directive, how can this proposal, if approved, be used? The Directives and the Treaty on European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union contain relatively broad exceptions to national and internal security. This constitutional proposal will create room for their use. And it is not irrelevant that the use of these exceptions will be based on the constitutional law. This is a very strongly expressed political position of the Czech Republic. Although, at the level of the basic textbooks of European law, it is said that European law takes precedence over every national regulation, it must be said that the directive on arms is a regulation that regulates the functioning of the internal market and, on the contrary, our constitutional law and its follow-up regulations will be on the level of national and internal security. And the constitutional law will make this distinction, which will necessarily be decisive even when the European Court of Justice considers it necessary, significantly underlined. If you ask us what use this constitutional law in the Czech Republic is to us at our internal level. I must say that this is a very strong signal to gun holders that the Czech Republic trusts them and does not intend to disarm them. This may be of fundamental importance from the point of view that these arms holders will not be motivated to lose their weapons under the impression of the European directive. In the future, this is also about preserving the existing very good system of our legislation on the possession of civilian weapons. It is also an opportunity to move towards long-term lack of change in our security system, and a system of backup and targeted building of such knowledge and skills of broad-level populations should be created, which can be used quickly by the State in the event of any crisis. We can certainly talk about defending soft targets, defending against hybrid threats, etc. However, it must be made very clear that this legislation, which we propose, precludes the building of any fighting, militia, etc. The proposed draft constitutional law contains clear safeguards in this respect. It is certainly not intended to increase the number of weapons between humans and at the same time the future arms management system should have no revolution in this regard. There's not gonna be a jumping gun increase. On the contrary, the aim is to keep all weapons in the legal sphere and to encourage their meaningful use for the protection and defence of the state for a part of them. This amendment is proposed as part of the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. This is a very clear intention, and this is precisely to emphasise the responsibility of the state for the whole area and the purpose of the possession of weapons, which is here to ensure security. The fact that this right is simultaneously proposed as an individual civil law is, on the other hand, underlined that no militias are being introduced here. On the contrary, it is a voluntary civic or even a patriotic activity. In the context of this proposal, it is also often argued that unprofessional, so-called unprofessional, arms holders, even though we recall that the holders of arms licenses are also police officers, customs officers, prison services and other professionals who, however, have their weapons as a hobby or simply in their civilian lives, that these unprofessional weapons holders can do more harm than good at times of crisis. This, on the one hand, is mostly declared by people whose awareness of the use of weapons, but also of this particular proposal is very weak, but on the other hand, it will indeed be the task of the state to ensure that, on the one hand, the holders of weapons are able and responsibly willing to contribute with their assistance in the state's crisis situations. The specific system, or the backup, training and training system that should ensure this, will undoubtedly still be discussed. And foreign systems that can be inspired are many, whether they are Finland, Switzerland or the Baltic States, and I am not talking about the State of Israel. Finally, I would like to point out that constitutional laws should only be changed in moderation. In this case, however, this is a very serious issue which links the issues of our defence and our willingness to defend ourselves and prepare for this purpose. The issue of active public involvement is also essential in this proposal. While we can constantly talk about the fact that security should be provided by the professional components of the state, it is clear to everyone that these cannot always be everywhere. And on the one hand, the state is no foreign isolated entity. This state is made up of all of us and, if necessary, we should have an obligation, but also the right to defend it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now I ask the rapporteur for first reading, Mr Marek Benda, to take the floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u4	Mr President, Mr Vice-President, Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, a group of Members is presenting an amendment to the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. This bill has one particular feature, namely that the government has not spoken to it, of which, according to Article 44 of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, it agrees as a legal fix. Nevertheless, I would say that it is rather unusual that the Government will not express any position on the amendment to the Constitutional Law, which is to hire the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic. I suppose that some of the ministers, eventually, will shed some light on the government's position, which says "we nothing, we musician." I would like to express several, say, slight doubts about whether the wordings are really such as to ensure us what the aim of this proposal is. At the same time, I say that I think that there should be a right for citizens to hold and possess a weapon, and on the contrary, I am slightly nervous that the law, which is to be guaranteed, is actually doing something like that, as if it is, but the explanatory report keeps melting and grinding it and saying, it is actually just a right within the obligation to defend its country and the like. The first doubt that I would say without questioning the idea that we should accept the right of citizens to defend their country and defend themselves is whether this provision is to be part of the Czech Security Act or to be part of the Constitution as such. Charters of fundamental rights and freedoms. I think that is a matter that we will have to discuss in a fundamental way on the Constitutional Legal Committee. If this is really the principle that every citizen has the right to defend himself. And so now that we are copying it, because frankly, and in this analysis it is said that the only country that we know in the world where this provision really exists in this form is the United States that put it there for completely different reasons. Not only for reasons, therefore, the possibility of defending itself against others, but also by the authority of the state to establish militias and to defend itself, if necessary, against the excessive power of the federal state. Thought of the United States as such. So there I think we need to clarify this question first: is this really the individual right of citizens to hold a gun and to defend themselves if I am attacked, whether I am attacked by my fellow citizen or whether I am attacked by a representative of another state? And we know that not only in connection with terrorist threats, but probably none of us could have imagined ten years ago that 500 or 700 km from Prague in Ukraine would be shooting at each other with firearms, and they would need to be armed to be able to defend themselves. So this is what I think is the first question that we need to clarify if it is to be a right that is an individual human right and is against everyone, and that is why it should eventually be enshrined in the Charter or in the Constitution as such, or whether it is only the right that is subject to some degree of defence and security of the Czech Republic, and thus limited. Second thing. I think we've all registered the first proposals that said people have the right - paraphrasing - people have the right to have a gun, the details will determine the law. I was saying at the moment these proposals appeared: well, that is a completely nonsense provision that tells us nothing against the current state. I confess that this proposal, brought by Mr Váňa and the other co-president, is much clearer and more sophisticated, because it really says: this right exists, can be limited, and other conditions may be laid down for its execution only in those cases where this is necessary for the protection of the rights and freedoms of others, public order and security, life and health or for the prevention of criminal offences. These are then clear criteria that are under the protection of the Constitutional Court, and if one of the plaintiffs and then this House and the Senate and the President, that means the legislature, in some way exceeded, it is possible to turn to the Constitutional Court and ask: Is this provision that you have invented in Parliament still really a restriction that protects the rights and freedoms of others, public order and security, life and health, or prevents crime? Or is it just some extra fiction that you brought in the executives and the House approved? Then I think that, of course, this text is much better, but we need to know that it is then under the protection of the Constitutional Court and that all the sentences that the appellants have written in the explanatory report and which say, well, nothing will change, all the existing parameters will remain preserved, all the regulation of the arms legislation that we have so far in the ordinary law will not be affected that this can or may not be the case. There may be a condition where e.g. The Constitutional Court, to tell you the truth - the Constitutional Court will say, well, a violation is not a reason for us to ban any human right to hold a gun. And if he's not a criminal, then he doesn't necessarily have to be that criminal purity or impunity, as stated. Likewise, and it was similar to the Members, at least in the majority who today put forward the proposal, who here a year ago voted a proportional tightening of the arms-holding law on the basis of a completely nonsensical pretext of some crazy shooter from Brod, whom we would never have preceded anyway, and it is always just an excuse to tighten up. And you know that there were ideas on how to retest weapons skills faster, how to force more often people holding guns to go to doctors. But at the same time, for example, there has been a breach of home freedom, which will undoubtedly also be under review by the Constitutional Court at the moment when the police authorities will find doubt as to whether the holder of the weapon is dangerous to his surroundings, that they can enter and remove the weapons from him. All of this would be in the future, I would even say that this is in some conflict with the efforts now declared, which would be in the future under the protection of the constitutional justice system. And I think that's a good thing. I think that's a good thing. But we're supposed to be aware of that. And I'd be a little more careful to write it later in the explanatory report: nothing will change, don't worry, nothing will happen. She's the whole reason message, if you read it quite carefully, it's a character like nice citizens, we want to give you the right to hold a gun, we're afraid that the EU has exceeded its powers and wants to disarm you. The next sentence is not delivered. So we have already brought, at least perhaps, an action against the European Commission that it has exceeded its powers, but we assure you that nothing will actually change, and the only thing the bill still admits is that changes can occur on the basis of European directives is the possession of those historical, sporting and hunting weapons, which, frankly, the directive concerns to some extent the most and will limit them most. [[14.50 hours]] If we say it's a general law that doesn't apply only to short firearms used for their own defence, or to defend their territory, but that in the end, when green men attack me to paraphrase it, it's not just any of this world, but it's red men from Mars, so eventually I can take the historic weapon or hunting weapon and I can use it to defend myself, of course, in accordance with the law of this country, but that no European Commission will take it away from me. So perhaps so much of my light doubt as to whether the plaintiffs are achieving what they want to achieve. I would be more inclined if we wanted to declare such a right, and I am in favour of declaring it so that we would declare it directly in the Constitution as in connection with individual law, possibly associated with the collective right to defend the security of this country, and not just with the collective right to the security of this country. But this is undoubtedly a matter that we can then deal with in the committees and then in the committee negotiations that will follow. I would recommend that we give this bill to committees and deal with it, because the security situation is quite serious and the interventions that European thinkers are showing are quite tragic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now I'm gonna read the apologies. Mr Vozka apologizes between 17 and 19 o'clock for reasons of work, Mrs Golasowská from 16 a.m. to the end of the meeting, Mr Šrámek today until 15.30 p.m. for reasons of employment, Minister Marksová apologises from 14.30 p.m. to the end of the meeting, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský from 14.30 p.m. to 15.30 p.m. for personal reasons, and Mr Kolovratník from 14.30 p.m. to 16.00 also for reasons of employment. Well, that was an apology. So I am opening up a general debate. Before I give the floor to Mrs Černochová, with priority rights, Mr Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am co-signed under this proposal, which obviously implies that I support it, and I support it in its entirety as it has been presented. I, through Mr President, would just like to perhaps correct some of Mr Benda's words. I think we've created a very functional compromise, a very good law on weapons possession, one of the best. And on that case in Uherské Brod, I don't want to reminisce that thing and discuss it from a certain pieto to the survivors who were there. If there were another citizen in that restaurant who had a legally held gun, there wouldn't have been so many casualties. And just, Mr. Colleague, I'd like to remind you that the man had a legally held gun. At that time, the police began to take steps to question his mental health. And if there was an institute at the time that the police could enter the residence and confiscate the weapon, then the tragedy might not have happened. I know we're gonna be here arguing about what's right. I believe that, in exceptional cases, the police should have that right. The law of your own. To me, gun holders are partners. We don't want to limit them, we want to have a partnership debate with them, and we are still having it. We've been running it for months and it's very effective from my point of view. At the end of the process, there should be a measure to ensure that these people who are legally holding a gun and with these legally held weapons are not almost committed crimes so that they can retain it, so that the state takes them as partners and for the protection of the Czech Republic in an emergency. And when you look at the security situation in Europe, it is obvious that the security situation is not improving, and the prediction is certainly not positive. With regard to other things such as the European directive, we have clearly demonstrated today at the press conference why we see it as defective. Why do we see it as defective only from the perspective of healthy peasant, maybe I'll say Czech reason. If it's to decide whether there's a magazine on 15, 19, 21 or 30 rounds, it can't be about that. This is absolutely against the interests of the Czech Republic, common sense, and therefore this directive - I certify that we are preparing a lawsuit. I would then like the Chamber of Deputies to comment on this. I will ask President Váňa to discuss this with the Security Committee. But I guarantee that by the time this directive comes into force, we will bring a motion for an action against the nearest government, where we will resist the effects of this directive. In addition, it is also fair to admit that the implementation of this directive is 15 months and it is very unlikely that the judgment will be made before then. It will then be up to the Czech Republic, Parliament and the Government to consider how to handle implementation. I would be very reluctant to implement this directive until the verdict comes down. Such an opinion by the Ministry of the Interior, we will go to you, honourable Members and honourable Members, as well as to the professional public, as well as to the Government of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u7	Thank you and please Mrs Černochová, Mr Ondráček will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I must begin to respond to what has been said here from the Minister's mouth. You know, Minister, you're crying over the disarmament directive nicely, but about two years after the deadline. Remember November 2015, when I proposed to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt a resolution that would oblige the Czech Government to apply the so-called yellow card within the European Commission. The yellow card under the Treaty of Lisbon can block the discussion of the directive if a sufficient number of States are found to add to it. At that time three other countries outside those countries that applied the yellow card waited for the decision of the Czech Republic. And if our government had decided to take this step with you, we didn't have to sit here today at all, we didn't have to discuss the amendment of the Constitution today. If I'm one of the co-chairs of this proposal, I had to say it here, because after the press conference that the Home Secretary Chovanec now had with the shooting community, I have to say I'm a little sorry. Since the Minister, the honourable missile community through the President of the House, presents the proposal as an ordinary Member. He doesn't present the proposal as the Home Office. Because the original proposal he submitted for the Home Office was unconstitutional. We're putting it on now, but if he can show up at a press conference with you, he's in! Excellent. But back to normal. The presentation of this amendment, the constitutional law, is primarily symbolic and it is a declaration of the state's trust in the legal holder of arms and respect for their right under legal conditions, namely to acquire, own, carry for the protection of their own and their surroundings. At the same time, this is an imaginary backup point on which we can build on further amendments to the Arms Act, which can mitigate the negative effects of the European Union directive. And I do not agree with what my colleague Váňa here said through the President that this is not a response to the European directive. It is. Even if we are, as I say, two years after the deadline. So let us openly admit that this amendment will in no way lead to a halt to this absurd disarmament directive, but it is some first step so that the greatest nonsense contained in it does not affect legal arms holders in our country. As you know, the EU is based on several pillars of different policies. One of them is the pillar where internal security falls. Yet internal security can be regarded as the high ground of every country, and it is up to us to build our security and defenses and how we want to protect our citizens. If a legally armed citizen wants to become an active part of the country's security system in the future, he should be able to do so and in that case, in my opinion, should be partially excluded from the effects of the directive. It should be noted that the directive in this text, which was finally adopted, was not at all, but should not have, and, as I said, our government should have stood up from the very beginning, i.e. from November 2015, with the full weight against this directive instead of pacing on the ground for a few months and perhaps trying to negotiate something in Brussels. She didn't negotiate anything, although I know that in particular Mrs. Master Bačkovská and Mr. Bartošek tried very hard. But unfortunately, from the official role, they will not negotiate anything from the administrative level of Brussels. Politicians must act in Brussels. In Brussels, the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister were to negotiate on this directive. [[A round of applause from the guest gallery.]] [[15.00 hours]] I expect a number of questions to be raised in the debate as to why they are adopting this amendment to the Constitutional Law. Since I want to put this debate a little bit on the ground, I will allow myself to explain some questions even before they possibly come out. Mainly, these are a number of reasoning fouls, simplistic phrases, and similar things that we could have witnessed when presenting this novel to the public, which triggered a rather large hysteria by the media and some politicians. Although this issue itself is quite complex for someone, it does not understand it, it does not understand it, so this community of media, or partly from politicians, has expressed itself in the spirit that it will be possible to shoot a terrorist, that they will hand out weapons in a row and that a Czech amendment to the Constitution is being created, that the state has resigned to protect its own citizens, that the Czechs are becoming the Wild West, that there is room for militias and folk militias, that people will be able to take justice into their own hands and so on. Of course none of this is true. Perhaps I should have started my speech by announcing to the House my conflict of interest, because I, too, am the holder of an arms license. In order to do the law, so do I at this moment. Let us draw a few questions that have been raised in the public space and on which we here should make a clear answer so that the media and those colleagues who hesitate to support our proposal can clearly hear these arguments. Will people be able to take justice into their own hands, and will it be like the Wild West? Like I said, it's total nonsense. In this respect, I would recommend not to underestimate the intelligence of the Czech rifle community. They're not fools, and they're not armed robbers. And I certainly don't think there are gunfires in our streets in connection with the new article in the Constitutional Law. Legal holders of arms in the Czech Republic are well aware of the weight of responsibility that passes on to them along with the legal possession of weapons. Another question that was raised. Will the state resign to protect its citizens? No. It is still true that the primary task of the state is undoubtedly to ensure security for its citizens. And from that, we have a whole range of security and armed forces, which are at a very good level, and our quality is one of the best. However, we must not stop developing and creating better conditions for the performance and performance of tasks of this vital and demanding nature. Security forces and armed forces must always be the pillar of the security guarantee and defence of our citizens, but it is not even real that there is a policeman standing on every corner at the same time. I don't think anybody would want that. Please take a realistic look at the problem. We cannot 100% eliminate all possible threats and risks and prevent various excesses, but such security threats need to be reduced to the lowest possible level. A number of law-abiding arms holders are engaged in sporting activity and tactical shooting, or those who have already been trained, for example, in the armed forces of the state, have certain prerequisites to be able to intervene actively in the event of an imminent or ongoing attack. Although it can only be a small percentage of people, it is good that such people have the opportunity to resolve a dangerous situation before the police arrive. Next question. Will people arm each other more and hand out weapons? They won't. I'll disappoint those who may have been looking forward to it. Even in the case of people who have undergone military or similar training, there is no automatic entitlement to a weapon. Whoever wants a weapon must comply with strict legal conditions. The current Czech legislation for the possession of weapons is a balanced compromise between rights and obligations, as has been said many times, can be considered one of the best in the world. I'm just adding that I've personally been very upset about breaking the house freedom, but I don't want to go back to that here. Although there would be a number of things that could be modified differently in the arms bill in the future, the law is perfectly fine. Please also note that for former soldiers and police officers the same rules continue to apply as for other applicants for arms licenses. Nothing is liberalized in this regard. Just because someone was or is still a cop or a soldier doesn't mean he's absolutely ready to intervene. Even some sports shooters are intensively trained, trained, and deepened in their shooting skills, and it could be said that they often have the same level of recognition skills and assessment as to whether or not this is an attack by terrorists. Such ones could intervene if necessary. However, the institute of necessary defence and extreme emergency, known from criminal law, continues to apply. So no one will have the right to shoot someone for no reason, as some media have tried to impress people. Next question. Is the Constitutional Amendment similar to that in the US being introduced? As Marek Benda said here, it doesn't. From my point of view, it is virtually impossible to compare historical conventions and various nuances that have led to the need to introduce the right to hold a gun to the constitutional standards of the state. Today it is possible to view the second amendment of the US Constitution from our Czech perspective as a certain relic of the time, but it is still a significant signal of a state with strong symbolic significance for American society and its mentality. Certain measures to ensure the perfect handling of weapons have their ratio and it is not appropriate to dismantle them headlessly in our conditions. Next question. I'm coming to an end now to give the opportunity to speak to other people on the board, from every political club to one. Is there room for armed militias out of control by the state? It doesn't. On the contrary, this amendment can lead to further legal regulation in the future, which will be able to deepen closer cooperation with the shooting community and use the capabilities of their members for the defence and security of our country in the event of emergencies even in crisis situations. The holders of legal weapons will thus continue to be under close control by the state as to whether they meet the necessary requirements to hold their weapons. Dear colleagues, there is not much time left until the end of the parliamentary term, so I and Mr Ondráček tried last week to avoid delaying the discussion of this standard, because if we were to discuss this standard on 26 April, it would probably not be possible to discuss it by the end of the parliamentary term. So thank you all for agreeing that we're discussing it today. And since we can count when the next meeting is to be held in time for second and third reading, I will allow the rapporteur to register my proposal to shorten the time limit for committee meetings so that we can make second reading in June. When we count it, please, it's going to be 54 days. Standardly, 60 days are used for committee discussions, here I propose that we shorten the deadline to 54 days so that we can discuss this in two readings, in the second and third readings of June, because unfortunately, if we did not take advantage of every opportunity for a few meetings that will be, we would be in danger of not discussing this in time. I think it would be a shame, because at least from the last few days of the atmosphere in this House, I don't know about the others, but I feel that this constitutional law could succeed, of course, by a constitutional majority. So all of you who are as serious as I am or the Civic Democrats' Club, please vote to shorten the deadline and vote for this standard. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u9	Thank you, Madame. I'm just going to ask if I should take this as a proposal to shorten the deadline, so we're going to vote on it at the end. Minister with priority rights and then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u10	I will speak to that law for the last time today, but I would like to answer Mrs Černochová through the President. I thought all those who signed the bill had one ambition, and that would pass. I don't want to play some political fight who, how, why and what, because I think we need to go ahead and pass the law very quickly. Despite all this, there is a need to remove some inaccuracies. My colleague, we, through Mr President, have had a very close debate across states, our specialists at the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We've been looking for a blocking majority. And that's Parliament's decision, that kind of yellow or orange card. And if I'm not mistaken, it was only two parliaments. There was no chance of getting a blocking majority. You have highlighted the work of Mrs Bačkovská and her team here, and it is these people who probed the opportunity for Parliament to somehow display the card. The chances of getting a blocking majority for this standard simply weren't. When you look at the meetings of the Interior Ministers, they were against, I believe, three or four countries, one of which was against the fact that the directive is not strict enough, then it was the Czech Republic, Poland and I suspect Hungary. Unfortunately, even Slovakia, which was the President of the European Commission at the time, did not join our proposal. That means the chance to block what you're talking about just wasn't. It wasn't, it didn't exist. And I'm able to prove it at any time. But really please, let's move on and send the bill to second reading so we can move forward. As far as the government's proposal is concerned, I've said it many times, and I'll remind you once more. We discussed with the Prime Minister, with President Vana's participation, with the participation of constitutional experts, how to speed up the process. And just the acceleration was the proposal of Members. That is why we have initiated this journey with Mr Váňa. If this were a government proposal, we are convinced that we have not been able to meet the deadlines so that by this time, i.e. by the end of the term of office of this Chamber of Deputies, the law has passed. That's why we went this way. For nothing else. I am not ashamed of the proposal as Minister of the Interior, I support it, we even first prepared it at the Ministry of the Interior, but after agreement with the Prime Minister we went this way because it is shorter. For nothing else. I will no longer perform here, I support the law in its entirety, and I firmly hope that we will find cross-cutting support to approve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u11	Before I give the floor to President Kalousek, Mrs Černochová's point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u12	Thank you, Mr President, I won't keep you long. The Minister neglected the fact that he had submitted one amendment to the Constitution for the Government of the Czech Republic, which concerned the same thing. You didn't say that. You said that now you've joined the proposal that's here. The original proposal you made was wrong. As far as Brussels is concerned. In that case, if it is true that the Czech Republic is being negotiated by officials in Brussels, then perhaps we do not need ministers. As I said here, if something is to be negotiated in Brussels, the Minister is to discuss it, the Prime Minister is to discuss it and all members of the government are to start negotiating something for the Czech Republic. Don't leave it up to the clerks, with all due respect.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u13	President Kalousek with priority rights and after him Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u14	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. To begin with, to be clear, the TOP 09 does not agree with the directive adopted by the European Parliament, all the MEPs voted against this directive or at least did not support it and we consider it right that the Czech Government will ask the European Court whether it is appropriate to apply this regulation to national legislation. However, we do not agree with this because we believe that this is really one of the things that can be satisfactorily addressed by national legislation, and that, unlike other competences, it is not necessary to transfer this competence centrally to our common central decision of the European Commission. I'd like us all to repeat it this way. That's our common decision. It's not like we're here, and there's the ugly European Union. We are the European Union, and that is our common decision. On the other hand, with all due respect and friendship, I cannot agree with the statements made by Mrs Černochová here when she refers to this directive as a disarmament directive. I'm the legal owner of three short ball guns, the directive doesn't get rid of them, and if I wanted to buy ten more, I'd buy ten more. Hunting unity, which organizes demonstrations in different places of our republic, equipped with shotguns and shotguns, any one of them will want to buy another ten shotguns and another ten shotguns, so he can buy them and no European directive prevents him from doing so. I ask you all very much in this flood of emotional screams so that we can read the final text of the directive and realize what it really says. It forbids us from 2019 to own self-loading rifles with a 30 and charger. You can have self-loading rifles, you just can't sprinkle that Westminster bridge like that with 30 bullets at once. You can only have ten. You mustn't have short firearms with a 20 or more rounds. You can't have that either. You can only fire from a magazine, say 15 rounds. To call this a restriction on the disarming directive is to provoke hysteria. Sorry, nothing else. Again, we do not agree with this directive, we think it belongs to national regulation, we think that the European Union does not need central regulation, and we believe that our laws on this issue are at the top of the European Union level, and therefore we do not need to take over any unification. However, the hysteria that's unleashed here seems to me like we're walking around with a cannon on a sparrow and we're summoning ghosts that aren't here. We're just threatening about 300,000, I think, weapons holders, I'm one of them, that we want to disarm them all. Well, that's not true. And we do not prevent any of us by this directive from defending our safety, our family and our property. We here, indeed, over something that - I repeat for the fifth time - we disagree, we cause hysteria that does not belong to the issue. And I support the Czech Government, I also support Minister Chovanec, I firmly hope that we will succeed in the European Court, but at the same time I urge some rationality. For God's sake, let's not tell people that the directive says anything other than what it really says! Friends at the gallery, I beg you, really read it. If one of you isn't holding a self-loading rifle with a 30 or more rounds clip, none of you will be disarmed! Thus came the holders of self-loading rifles with a magazine of 30 or more rounds, in my opinion the Army of the Czech Republic should never have sold them, but that is the problem. However, calling it a disarming directive is nonsense. And to interfere with the Constitution of the Czech Republic as the highest legal standard is even more nonsense! I just think that there is no doubt that TOP 09 is a passionate and uncompromising advocate of human rights and freedoms. However, the constitutional right to hold a gun, for this we will never really raise our hand, because the right to hold a gun is adjustable by proper legislation, here we also have, here we have also have, but to raise it to constitutional law is, ladies and gentlemen, stupidity and pre-election populism! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u15	So now we have six factual points - Mrs Černochová, then the Minister of Defence. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to recommend to President Kalousek, through you, that he read the directive first, because what he said here is complete nonsense. And if he's accusing someone of populism here, then I don't know if he's still part of the TOP 09, Mr. Europ Member Pospíšil, who I think was exactly one of those who, as Chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek said, caused the hysteria. Yes, Jiří Pospíšil was one of the few MEPs for the TOP 09, who also called this directive a disarmament directive and defended the rights of the shooters. So I wonder if the TOP 09 led by President Kalousek through the President of the Chamber of Deputies is not a bit schizophrenic if he is telling us anything other than what he is doing here in the European Parliament, and if it is precisely the populism that Mr Kalousek has not performed on the air right now. As I said here, I've been fighting for gunmen's rights since November 2015. So don't blame me for the election populism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u17	Mr. Defense Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u18	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief indeed. But since I'm having a very special moment here, I wanted to share it with you and basically celebrate it in the sense that for the first time, with all due respect, I agree with President Kalousek on practically all points. And I wanted to join this, I think, rational opinion. I'm also the last person to underestimate it, but I'm also one of those who read it. And I would really recommend it to everyone. I'd recommend it to everyone. I suppose there's still a pro-European majority. And when we interpret some, albeit unfortunate, actions by the European Union or the Commission, in the worst possible way, we are actually doing bear service for this republic. Moreover, there is a fundamental resolution that none of those owners will lose it during their lives. So we're actually talking about weapons left behind by someone who's gonna leave this world. So there's a lot of important details. There are details that may be a category for defense. Many countries use this category in this directive or already have it in their legislation, and therefore the directive applies to it in a far, far less robust way. We also want to go this way, and the Ministry of Defence will propose this direction to the government of legislative change, which is definitely not at the level of constitutional change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u19	Mr. Pilný. After him, Mr. Holík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that what I am about to say is not the voice of a caller in the desert, because I also have my own gun and gun. I'm not a member of the shooting community because I don't know what it is. But I think we have a very good law to hold weapons and weapons licenses. It's even a law that's better than the Driving License Act, because a car is also a weapon, and we get a driver's license when we're 18 years old, and if we're not professionals, then our qualifications are tested sometime after the 1960s. So I think the law is good and there's no need to correct it. If anyone has a special hobby that I don't share, like shooting animals, I don't know why they should have the equivalent of a Kalashnikov. There's really no need to fix that. If something needs to be repaired in this context, it is necessary to implement what it is necessary to defend, because if you make a gun license, you will also get instructions sometimes when defending yourself, shoot in the head, or throw a rubber gun. That's a thing that limits us much more in the necessary defense. If anyone wants to defend the Republic and they really mean it, then we have an institute of active backup where they can practice shooting, where they can prepare to defend the Republic. This law is useless, it causes absolutely unnecessary panic, and I will never vote for it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u21	Mr. Holík. After that, Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u22	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to a small technical remark. I was surprised by Mr Pilný, a fellow Member of Parliament, as well as the Minister. I would like to clarify a few of the information provided here by Mr Kalousek through Mr President. [[Big noise in the left side of the hall.]] Long guns are stacks over ten and not over thirty, first of all. In short, it's 20. And second of all, if we're talking about sprinkling, it's an automatic weapon. But the directive concerns semi-automatic weapons, or self-loading. So, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, read the directive, and then we can start some debate, and it will certainly be at a much higher level.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u23	Mr. Benda. After that, Mr Váňa. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, only through you, Mr Kalousek, who I otherwise appreciate, and I respect his view that he may think otherwise about the arms directive than we do. So let me just point out that Jaromír Štětina, who is a Member, voted in favour of the directive at least according to public sources... [[Response from the right.]] I say by sources that can be found on the Internet, which is a member of the TOP 09, and Luděk Niedermayer abstained. So if that's not the case, please, then I'm sorry, and unfortunately we need to check the Internet more carefully.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u25	Mr. Váňa. Then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the public, today in a large number, I think that today there will be a lot of opinions and information which, let us say, will not be fully supported by knowledge, facts, experience and the like, which is logical, because, of course, not everyone, or virtually. Most of them have no experience with guns, shooting, and so on. I guess that's understandable. But somebody's got a need to vent this place. I think what Mr Kalousek said, that the directive is sometimes simply called disarming, he is actually right, it is not a disarming directive. The directive is called "the directive on restrictions on the legal possession of weapons."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u27	Chairman Kalousek. Mr Grospič will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u28	Thank you. Just a few brief notes on what was said here. To Mr Benda - we have four Members in the European Parliament, you have two. Three of our Members opposed, one abstained, which means none supported it. That's one. Secondly, we do not have a different opinion than you do on the European directive. We have the same opinion. We disagree with it and support the Czech Government by passing it on to the European Court. We think this is supposed to be in the hands of purely national law. But what we don't agree with is hysteria, exaggeration and haunting those shooters that I'm one of. Mrs Černochová said she has been representing the shooter since 2015. I'm the shooter, not only was I born in that sign, but I go shooting. But please don't represent me nicely because people are haunted here by something they're not in danger of. And I don't want to be scared like that. And telling us shooters isn't going to disarm us, and walking on it with a constitutional change tool is just unfair and election populism. That's all I'm saying.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u29	Mr. Grospič. That is the last point of fact so far, unless the situation changes after his appearance. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would therefore ask, through you, that I would also withdraw my proper application to the debate, because I think that, in the context of speeding up and the need to adopt this law, it would probably be appropriate. Nevertheless, I would like to express my opinion here, which leads me to say why I wanted to speak. [[15.30 hours]] I believe that this amendment to the proposed amendment to the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic will not lead to the stated objective of preventing the implementation of the European Union directive into the Czech legal order. One simple reason leads me to do so, because that paragraph, as formulated in Article 3 - citizens of the Czech Republic have the right to acquire, hold and carry weapons and ammunition to carry out the tasks set out in paragraph 1. 2 and this right may be limited by law and other conditions of its exercise may be laid down by law, if necessary to protect the rights and freedoms of others and public order, the safety of lives and health or the right to prevent criminal offences - the dilemma of whether this law, the implementing law of this constitutional law, will eventually not have to be in line with the implementation of the European Union. And that's the essence I wanted to express here. On the one hand, I wish to say that I strongly disagree with what the European Union is prescribing to us, I would like to see the current rule of law and the possibilities of citizens that our rule of law provides in the Czech Republic preserved. I still have my doubts about the draft bill. However, I will vote for him and support him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u31	Two more factual points. Mr Koskuba and Mr Lank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, a rather crowded hall, I am listening to this debate, and I would remind my colleagues of only one thing. We have read in the media because none of us seem to be attending this European Parliament meeting as we discussed this directive - and our colleague Váňa beautifully emphasized its name, it is about limiting the legal possession of weapons - as it looked. No matter what we think. There were supposedly no amendments, nothing at all. The European Parliament has made a direct decision, and we all know that if our state fails in a European court, we will have to implement the directive. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament can spit one regulatory directive at a time. I confess to raising my hand for this law. Even so that at least there is something left of me, because we never know an hour or a minute when the European Parliament will meet again and this directive will get even stronger. And then they're gonna figure out that the clips are gonna be for long guns at five, for short guns at five, and we're gonna be in a completely different situation. Please note also this fact that Europe sometimes acts like a loose cannon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u33	Mr. Lank.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u34	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I'm listening here, I'd make it a lot easier. I understand that it doesn't have to be anybody's taste to have the gun for 10, 20, 30 rounds. But it's simple: Then don't buy it! But let the others who want it, for whatever reason, for sports reasons, let them have the right to get it. And as to whether the amendment or the law we're talking about right now is useless or not. So there is a risk that without the adoption of this amendment, we will be much more difficult to fight against euro nonsense. The risk is clearly here! And does it hurt to accept this simple novel? Well, he won't. And don't be mad at me, but we've already approved much more useless things here than this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u35	Mr Grospič with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u36	That's what this is all about. That is why I said that I would support the amendment to the law, although I am convinced that it will not contribute in any way to the fight against other nonsense posed by the European Union and the European Union directives which order individual Member States to adapt, so-called. implement regulations or directives into their national legal order. I think this law lacks one basic (?) and it may be possible to remove it in the course of the discussion, and that is that it actually refers to another implementing law. And it will have to be bound by this directive or simply by the European Union's guidelines. And that's where the danger lies. So, while we here are misleadingly adopting some supplement to the constitutional law, I agree with that, but I don't think it meets the whole objective. That it will still need to be worked up and thought about how it should actually be formulated so that in this implementing regulation, which will then have to be amended, there can be an adjustment that does not bind us to our obligations in relation to the European Union.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u37	Thank you. And if there are no further factual points, please Mr Ondráček and Mr Lank will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, one present, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, let me thank you once again for listening to my proposal, and during Friday's vote, you supported today's debate on this point here in the House. So thank you again and let's get to the point. Let us ask ourselves the basic question: Do we need to change the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic? The question is simple. But before we answer it, we should probably answer a number of arguments that are in the area against such a proposal. One such argument is that the change in the constitutional law is merely a populist act by Minister Chovanec to win voters for the Czech Social Democratic Party. Yes, that is possible, and it would be consistent with the morning or afternoon briefing, including the fact that it looks like it's a proposal only from the workshop of colleagues from social democracy. Here I would like to say that this is not the case. Because the joint translators are Members and Members of the KSČM Club, but also of the ODS Club and the ANO movement. In this, let me say, I hope the crisis situation does not matter to citizens exactly what minister and from which side he proposes it. Because it is not important who proposes what, but who will vote in favour. Without you, coworkers and colleagues, who will have to be 120, it just won't work. I must point out that the citizens concerned by the European Commission's directive are a large and relatively well-organised group from the Czech Moravian Hunting Unity to military or police history clubs to sports shooters who are very closely following the behaviour of politicians and will certainly decide in this year's parliamentary elections also how politicians will oppose this directive of the European Commission. We are talking about about half a million people, where only the holders of arms licenses are more than 300,000. Another argument against the proposal is whether they have weapons in the constitution only in the United States of America, even from the time they were founded, when there was no regular army and police. Today, this is an unnecessary excess. Such and similar statements indicate either ignorance or misunderstood the history of the United States and the ignorance of the real causes of various excesses with weapons that occur in the modern history of the United States until now, and we know many cases called. Crazy shooters. [[15.40 hours]] The main reason for the second amendment to the Constitution of the United States was not to ensure internal security by establishing some kind of folk militia, but after bad experience with the British government in American colonies in terms of citizens' right to arms and self-defense, i.e. the right to freedom, the second amendment was introduced as an insurance policy against any state establishment, even in the future. The founding fathers of the United States, led by Thomas Jefferson, were well aware that every tyranny government would always take the right to hold and carry a weapon to realize its tyranny on humans first. However, there is a very significant difference between the Czech Republic and the United States. Despite the developed and traditional so-called. weapons culture in the United States does not have in the United States any comprehensive uniform and high-quality legal standard for the acquisition of weapons by citizens, as regulated by our arms and ammunition law. In addition, different rules apply to the acquisition of arms in each Union State, and there can be no talk in any kind of functional central weapons register within the United States. This may also be the reason that the gun gets into the right (?) by the hands and there are tragedies. However, it cannot be argued that this is the error of the constitutional principle of the right to hold and carry a weapon. It is an error of imperfect implementation legislation or its individual violation. The vast majority so-called Crazy shooters, terrorists, and murderers got in and got their hands on a gun always illegally, thanks to the black market, or the misuse of a gun stolen. As I have mentioned several times, this is precisely what is prevented from happening in our country, and this issue is perfectly treated by our extremely successful arms law, which officially makes us the sixth safest country in the world, and the crime committed with a weapon, i.e. a firearm, is statistically negligible. Another argument against this proposal. I will ask myself whether I am in favour of maintaining the current conservation of the arms law, and I consider the current situation to be satisfactory from the point of view of the necessary defence, and that is why it is so called. Constitutional supplement unnecessary. This was also mentioned by my previous speakers. There is a lack of understanding of the most important mission of constitutional change and thus protection against the directive of the European Commission. They in the media mentioned the negative consequences of constitutional change, such as. permission to shoot terrorists is merely cheap and misleading statements willingly distributed by stupid journalists. The constitutional change follows nothing but the preservation of the status quo, or the preservation of our current proven law on weapons and ammunition and the maintenance of provisions on necessary defence in the Code of Criminal Procedure. From the point of view of the Institute of Needed Defense, of course, a legally armed citizen already has the right to defend himself and his surroundings by shooting in the event of a clearly attacking perpetrator not only a terrorist act. To remind you of Section 29 of the Criminal Code, the necessary defence: The act of otherwise criminal offense, which is averted by someone directly threatening or continuing an attack on interest protected by criminal law, is not a criminal offence. This is not a necessary defense if the defence was clearly an disproportionate method of attack. Another argument against this is that there is no need to intervene in the Constitution as we are filing an action before the European Court against the European Commission Directive. Yes, the Ministry of the Interior is already preparing such a lawsuit, virtually. it is processed, but - and maybe here the Minister could correct me - according to my information it has not yet been submitted. I consider this a sort of basically alibiism, how not to mess with citizens and at the same time act like we're doing something. Personally, I am rather skeptical and I think that we do not have much chance in the European Court under current legislation. And even if I did, this lawsuit will last for years. I take the action as a necessary expression of categorical disapproval for world public opinion, but not as a solution to this problem. Some argue that the amendment to the Constitution is useless and will not help us, because Union law is equally superior to our constitutional law. This is not true. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union in Articles 4, 72 and 276 explicitly states that the internal security of the State remains the exclusive competence of the Member States and even the European Court of Justice cannot rule on these matters. The Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union is one of the fundamental Treaties of the European Union which must not be amended without the consent of all the Member States of the European Union. In addition, the internal security guarantee of a Member State of the Union shall be governed by the provisions of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row: Original deduction according to Article 36 (1) point (a) of CRR. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the Treaty of Lisbon. Therefore, if the civilian possession of a weapon was made part of the concept of internal security of the Czech Republic, which is essentially proposed by the parliamentary proposal to amend the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic, it would become a matter falling within the exclusive competence of the Czech Republic under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. That is why we have perfect and legal measures, in the sense of European Union law, on how not to implement the directive in the future. This will, of course, also require the adoption of follow-up laws, which will ensure that the interconnection will be real, not merely formal. All civilian possession of arms will thus become a conceptual part of the internal security of our country, to which, under the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and under the Treaty of Lisbon, any directive of the European Union does not explicitly apply. Let us ask ourselves: I am against the directive of the European Commission, but I do not agree with the amendment of the constitutional law and I will not vote for it. That's what they're saying. Dear colleagues, with this view, it is not possible to lie to the citizen, to be against the directive and at the same time to be against the amendment of the constitutional law, or to be against the incorporation of weapons into the Constitution. It's just not possible. If anyone claims otherwise, let them make a clear suggestion of another equally effective solution. You may propose the establishment of state or state-registered defence associations or militias or other forms of military active backups. But this would be a classic attempt at so-called. eviscerating the European Commission's directive. Personally, I am in favour of setting up active advances to security forces, and I welcome the fact that we are already discussing this in part at the Ministry of the Interior. But that goes beyond this proposal. These advances would in a complicated way protect only a certain category of weapons and only within a defined age group of citizens. And the last argument is that if we accept something like this, we would be the only European country in which they have weapons in the Constitution. There's nothing else to answer but what the hell. So what? Then we'll be the only ones and we'll be the first. Someone has to be first. The abolition of slavery also did not occur across the board in all countries at once, but gradually from country to country. So don't worry about us being the first to do anything, and maybe somebody won't praise us for it. While the state guarantees security, as mentioned by the Minister or the petitioner, it cannot be always and everywhere. And he's also counting on a citizen today to help in case of skill and willingness. I will not mention how the cooperation and assistance of citizens with firefighters or paramedics is taking place, when the provision of assistance is even required under the threat of sanctions, including criminal. But I'll only mention to the police. If you look at § 95 para. 3 of the Law on the Police of the Czech Republic is mentioned here: The State is obliged to compensate the person who provided assistance to the police or police at his request or with his knowledge. Or - the State is obliged to compensate for the damage caused by a person in connection with the assistance given to the police or police. So also the law on police counts on this, and even in Section 100 states: A natural or legal person who has provided assistance to a police or police officer, particularly in the detection or apprehension of the perpetrator of a serious crime, arrest of a dangerous perpetrator, intervention to protect the safety of persons and property or to save life, health or property, can be awarded a gift or medal. [[15.50 hours]] I would like to announce that I am also in conflict of interest, I have a few short and long weapons, and I can say one particular example for you who are not so experienced with weapons. I've been trained to be part of, say, the task force for over 23 in the police force. I can imagine a situation where - and imagine such a situation, if you were there personally or close to you - there will be an ambush of a particular object, say a restaurant where your loved ones will be at lunch. Police have 20 minutes to check in after this act has been announced. Police, first-time patrol, will arrive, discover that there are two or three armed men inside, and the procedure is unable to perform. He's gonna call a task force that's got 120 minutes under the law. Two more hours. Imagine a situation where you still have someone inside, or you're alone inside. After arrival, the police find out what the internal arrangement is, try to find out how many people are armed, how many people are hostages, what the internal arrangement is and how the procedure is to be carried out. If there are one or more persons who have been trained or hold weapons in such a space, they may resolve the problem in a matter of order within a few brief moments. And most of the weapons license holders, I think, are able to perform this kind of procedure. So, even from the current legislation, it is clear that the state is counting on citizens' participation in security, and the promotion of this right to the constitutional principle is only an answer to the senseless policy of the European Union. The answer to the question at the very beginning of my speech is whether we need to amend the constitutional law on security of the Czech Republic. I'm responding with a definite yes. Dear colleagues, let me conclude by quoting Bertolt Brecht, who said: The good were not defeated because they were good, but because they were weak. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u39	Thank you, honourable Member. First of all, with a point of fact, President Kalousek, then Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u40	Sorry, I do not want to delay, but I would like to ask Mr Ondráček how the situation that he has described here can affect the directive of the European Commission, or how it can be influenced by the draft presented by Minister chovanec. It doesn't change anything! Suppose we are both armed in that restaurant, both of us, and if we do not lose the courage, we are pulling at the moment and we are defending ourselves, and this does not prevent us from the European directive adopted by the European Parliament. She's not stopping us from doing anything. And he's not gonna stop us at all. And the constitutional law that we're discussing here isn't gonna help us either. Then why in God's name are you making this argument? Or maybe I don't understand it, and please come and tell us how this legislative draft will change that. She's not gonna change anything! We can hold the gun, and we can use it if necessary under the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u41	Now Mr Ondráček was a Member - a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u42	Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, what you mentioned for (a) and (b) so b) is correct. You don't understand!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u43	Please Mr Lank, who is another duly signed up for the debate. Mr. Plíšek will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u44	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. For starters, I have to admit that I'm practically in conflict of interest, and I'm in possession of an arms license. And yes, I'm also the owner and owner of a gun that has, for example, a telescopic butt or a 30-gun magazine. From my point of view, this law has one main objective, namely to maintain the current state of affairs. There's no way to interpret it that they're all supposed to be armed. It doesn't mean that the rules for the acquisition of a weapon are being moderated, and it can't be interpreted as a challenge, as I've also noticed somewhere, to shoot my terrorist. No way. It has already been said that the Czech law on weapons and ammunition is one of the best possible in global comparison. The conditions for obtaining an arms license and subsequently weapons are quite strict and we only want it to stay that way. The way it is. So that a decent, blameless and law-abiding citizen who decides to acquire a weapon can acquire it after fulfilling the legal conditions, without fear that the European Commission will deprive him of his investment, his right, and he will slowly turn him into a criminal. The mentioned directive we're talking about here is wrong. It contains nonsense both from an ideological and technical point of view. If the European Commission's practically only response to terrorist attacks in European cities is that it has declared a fierce fight against terrorists in the form of a reduction in the capacity of a magazine for legal weapons holders, it is very sad. So I can totally see the heads of terrorist organizations spooked and summoned their jihadists to exchange a magazine in their Kalashnikov for a ten-morning one. I have information for the European Commission, which apparently did not reach it. Terrorists don't give a damn about laws and guidelines. Not to mention getting an illegal gun on the black market is easier, faster and cheaper than getting it legally. I don't even have to say that if you disarm decent people, the weapons will only remain in the hands of the rude. This directive will affect the legal holders of firearms, not terrorists. There are more than 300,000 of them in the Czech Republic, legal holders of weapons. Fortunately, the terrorists haven't yet. And believe that everyone is watching closely how we are going to deal with this proposal. They fear that this directive is only a first step, and we will soon be banned from knives, which, by the way, is already a reality in some Member States of the European Union. And given the experience of the expertise and functioning of the European Commission, it is rightly afraid. No, we do not want to make the Czech Republic the Wild West or the Wild East, but the fact is that the current security situation in Europe is not good and will probably not be better. It is a fact that terrorists choose particularly soft targets and they are the ones who determine the place, time and manner of execution. And the fact is, even if the police have unlimited budget, they can't have their people everywhere and now. And in the event of an attack, seconds play a role. It is enough to see how long a terrorist with a truck on the boardwalk in Nice, France, and how a similar attempt was made at a bus stop in Israel. There, the armed citizen correctly evaluated if it wasn't just a car accident, and when the terrorist started turning around to run over other people, he ended his efforts decisively and definitively. Yes, he was most likely given appropriate training, as is customary in Israel. But it must be said here that there is a large proportion of police officers, soldiers and members of other armed forces who cannot carry a service weapon out of service and therefore obtain a private one among the three hundred thousand holders of arms licenses in the Czech Republic. So there may be thousands of other people in the streets who are not only capable of intervening, but they know how. It would be a huge mistake not to use this potential. [[16.00 hours]] The worst dictators in history, whether it was Hitler in Germany, Lenin, Stalin in Russia, Mao Tung in China, have had the greatest efforts to disarm their own citizens. I think we know what the consequences of these regimes were. Where the European Union is going, I do not know. I might have a hunch, but decency keeps me from saying it out loud. But anyway, I don't want to assist her. And if he has such ideas, I don't even want to be in it. We must take advantage of every opportunity to defend ourselves against the similar pasquila that the European Commission supplies us with, and this bill is one of these possibilities. brát us also take this as a guarantee for the future if the European Commission wants to try to go even further. So please, for once, let us show that the security and rights of our citizens are worth more to us than party jurisdiction and political points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u45	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u46	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. I would like to begin by saying that, unlike my colleagues who spoke before me, I am not in a conflict of interest in discussing this constitutional change. I will return to the legislative process of the draft amendment to the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic. First of all, the Minister of the Interior presented him as a minister in a commentary procedure. He subsequently evidently found that the proposal was inextricable through commentary proceedings, that it may be inaccessible through the government, and therefore came along with his colleagues and other fellow Members with the MP's initiative. That is, in this way, we are discussing constitutional changes that will not go through the classic commentary procedure, where there is neither a professional nor a political debate ahead of time. In short, it is an election year and therefore it is necessary to present and promote the right to hold a weapon as constitutional law. I am a real opponent of unnecessary and senseless new laws, even if these laws are constitutional. We have the right to possession and use of weapons regulated in the modern Firearms and Firearms Act and there is no need at all to elevate this right to constitutional law. If we go this way, what other constitutional law will we want to anchor in the future? Will the petitioners want to come up one day that we need a constitutional right to a happy life or a sunny day? I therefore ask with such exaggeration because it is not possible for us to indulge our constitutional order with completely unnecessary, and as the translators themselves say, by symbolic provisions, symbolic laws that have no tangible concrete impact. I am opposed to such regulations and will also be in this case, because I do not know what would become of the Constitution of the Czech Republic. We would still be adding new and new constitutional rights, and it would really be very confusing. It was argued that the constitutional law, which was first introduced by the Minister, was a response to the Arms Directive, which I therefore fundamentally disagree with. But how is it that, unlike Sweden and Poland, the government did not come to the Chamber of Deputies, at least giving a dissenting opinion with this directive? This means, instead of dealing with this matter in cooperation with other states, with other states of the European Union, a constitutional law was invented that the form of directives had no effect at all. And it's been said here by colleagues - the plaintiffs themselves. The directive and this constitutional law are completely different things. And as the constitutional law is even proposed, it does not allow us to apply the directive. At the end of my speech, however, I will mention that we should rather talk about the amendment to the arms and ammunition law, how to adjust it and how to eliminate some of the bad effects of the directive and how to resolve this issue so that the arms community is not restless. There's absolutely no need to disturb anyone here. For a large part, for the vast majority of arms holders, the directive itself, and it has been said here, does not adversely affect. And where it hits, we must go the way of permanent exceptions, so that its reach is as small as possible. Of course, it has been mentioned here, but it is also probably ex post that an action will be brought before the European Court of Justice. This is indeed worth supporting. It is necessary to clarify in the future whether the institutions of the European Union have indeed exceeded their competence, because, from my point of view, legislation on the possession of arms should be a national legislation of that State. And it is okay that this action will be brought before the European Court of Justice. It can probably be filed there after the directive comes out in the Journal, which is said to happen shortly. So then I expect the government to file this suit. But I am not quite sure that the government has actually done everything in its power to prevent the adoption of the directive in cooperation with other states. Finally, I think that before this pointless unnecessary constitutional change, we should start having fun - and I know that the term of office is coming to an end, so that the petitioners only want to make political points for this constitutional change. But I think that we should also talk about the regulation of the Firearms and Firearms Act, quite specific, which will help gun holders right now, because this constitutional change will not help them in real matters and interests. So we, as TOP 09, will propose, for example, and I believe that negotiations will be convened to do this, and that it will actually be addressed at the expert level by the Security Committee, so that the category B weapons that will newly become categories A are identified as A1, including bins. We want to anchor, which is what this directive allows us to grant an exemption on grounds as we have so far, i.e. In addition to the reasons which the directive allows and which are related to the internal market, add the reason for the exclusive competence of the Member State, i.e. from the area of internal security, to the reason for the protection of life, health and property. This also allows us to do so by this directive. In order to strengthen the objective and purpose of the directive, we want to establish a right to grant an exemption for the possession of an arms licence for citizens of the Czech Republic, who are also holders of a D-group arms licence. Furthermore, we want to lay down the obligation of the holder of the exemption to take care of his weapon, which we also see as an important matter, and to lay down an obligation for the holders of the exemption in the event of a threat to the Republic to appear on a call with a weapon to fulfil certain obligations. This means that, rather than sitting here debating a few general provisions in the Constitution, it is also really necessary for the Resort Ministers, which means the Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Defence, to tell us how they want to involve the public, because apart from the original text, which said that citizens would replace the police with security and security, so far we have not seen any concrete proposal. So this solution, which I mentioned, makes it possible to maintain the right in implementing the directive to holders and candidates for a given category of weapons as it has been so far. It is necessary to evaluate it, go on the path rather positive for the future, not here to haunt and present unnecessary changes to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u47	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, every European directive can be submitted within a legal period of 15 days, I think, the so-called reasoned opinion. In this respect, the principle of subsidiarity is respected, which in Czech means what should remain at national level and what is regulated by the European directive. We just don't give these reasoned opinions. We don't serve them to energy packages and other things, and then we face the difficult question of how to solve some problems with post-mortem. Apparently, this matter has been neglected here. And the other thing. I would like to ask my colleagues, who are putting the number of 300,000 people at risk here, by not adopting this constitutional law, to kindly amend it to 299 999, because I am not at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u49	I thank Mr Pilný. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Bohuslav Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd just like to follow up on the words of the previous speaker here. Not Mr. Pilný, but Mr. Plíšek, through you. There was something here about a symbolism. I see some symbolism in the fact that, for example, the EU is constantly pushing the so-called. quotas. She has now devised a European directive on weapons and others, which I consider symbolic of how small states or the Czech Republic are perceived in their views regarding defence and security within the European Parliament and the EU. So as far as symbolism is concerned, I think the Czech Republic has the right to express the same symbolism towards the European Parliament. I'd like to start by putting out statistics like this. 743 million EU citizens have elected 766 Members in the European Parliament, and they have voted in some way. It's just to realize what position we are in as the Czech Republic. And if this directive has passed, as it has passed, I fear that there is indeed a very little awareness in the European Parliament and in the European Commission, a professional awareness of what defence security is. Because, as has been said here, our laws concerning weapons and ammunition are one of the best in the world. And I do not really understand why the European Parliament has not taken this into account. So, as far as the EU wants to combat terrorism effectively, and this has also been said here - a terrorist never, probably most likely, will ever use legally held weapons. He will use weapons that are smuggled from Ukrainian warehouses, from Libya etc. As some here have admitted, they are in conflict or not in conflict of interest. I'm not in a conflict of interest. I've enjoyed my professional experience in the past. However, I fully acknowledge the right of every citizen and adult citizen to defend myself. To defend his loved ones, his property, his friends, his country. I am sorry that the bill, and I am saying this here to the address of the Minister, as it was originally submitted, was not sufficiently discussed with us as Members before it was submitted. At least, then, on the Defence and Security Committee, because we might avoid some unnecessary discussions at the moment. I would very much hate if the whole thing, as is customary in our legions and in our defences, should become a multi-fight for political points at the expense of substance rather than a real solution to the defence and security of our citizens throughout their complexity. For then, all of this effort that we are going to make and spend here will become unbelievable again and will be very difficult to defend. Especially if we really want to pay attention to what is essential, and this is really the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic, both in times of peace and in times of crisis or other threats. Since this is a change of constitutional law, one of the most serious interventions of us legislators in the legal system of the Czech Republic, our parliamentary club and the relevant ministerial ministers have expressed, and I must stress, legitimate doubts about the purpose and effectiveness of such change. It is completely legitimate and corresponds with the natural sense of responsibility of our Members and Ministers to matters of high concern to the security of the country. It is necessary to admit openly that this legislative initiative is, and this is evident here, a response, and I have already said this, unfortunately very unhappy and, in my personal opinion, also an incompetent proposal from the European Commission and a vote by a majority of Members in the European Parliament. In this context, I would like to point out that I very much appreciate the work done by our MEPs, I think Members for the ANO movement, in particular Mrs Dita Charanzová, who has done a really significant piece of work to amend the directive in its current form, at least in its current form. I personally consider, and not only I, constitutional change to be unnecessary, but at the same time, I say that, given its importance, I do not ultimately have the ambition to prevent it from being discussed at second reading and approved. I am clearly declaring that this amendment is in no way self-savability, and if it were to remain with this, then it would be no more than a populist response to the revolting, yet understandable emotions of the citizens of the Czech Republic, the holders of arms. Unless we do and implement a whole range of other, equally or by our impact, major legislative and executive actions, nothing positive will happen in this sense in the final effect. What I mean by legislative and executive steps, i.e. - and I repeat this here after x-th - the introduction of congress training as a compulsory subject for schools. Unfortunately, I have to say that even after two and a half years, I have not met here in the House for the realisation of this ambition with any support. Restoring the Union of Defense is the next step we should take. That's what the Minister of Defence was talking about. At this point, a legislative proposal for a solution is being prepared. defence associations and all other civil activities related to defence and defence. We also discuss the possibility of establishing territorial militias, naturally replacing existing militias that I do not agree with. In this sense, we carefully examine how this issue is dealt with, for example. Poland, Finland, the Baltic States and, of course, very, very detailed research into the knowledge and experience of the State of Israel. I will also pay even more attention not to merely increasing the number of security forces, but above all to the effectiveness of his training and equipment of security forces, reducing administration and moving a number of officers in uniforms back to the streets. I will pay just as close attention to the legal standard of private security services in the context of the country's self-defense capacity to face crisis situations. As for the training mentioned - I will inform you again that we have a feasibility study available for the Integrated Training Centre project in Vyškov. Until now, nothing has been done for its implementation outside the work of the expert group, which I had the honour to initiate and manage. The reason is obvious resortism, concern about parts of the budget chapters of which resort. Another problem is shooting range, a way of training gun holders, which - personally I have a clue that many gun holders, although holding weapons, have passed very demanding tests, go to shooting galleries, but their use of weapons in case of real crisis situations may be problematic because training does not take place in this way. So we're losing range. There's something we should do to preserve the shooting range, eventually we set up a new shooting range. I attach the same importance to the declared ambition of the Ministry of the Interior for the submission of a new legislative standard on arms and ammunition, which will regulate the acquisition of a weapons passport and possession of weapons, in order to correct what the European directive is somehow damaging. I cannot ignore the current security situation in my decision-making, the consequences of the uncontrolled migration movement of persons in Europe, the unprotected border of the Schengen area, the increasing intensity of terrorist attacks in Europe. Unfortunately, it is quite obvious that neither the future estimate of the development of security both on a global and European scale, if I look at how Frontex is equipped, how Schengen protection is planned or planned to protect the Schengen area in order to be precise, I do not have any positive feelings about this at all. [[16.20 hours]] So if I have to choose between the three wrong decisions, i.e. the decision to accept the directive of the European Commission, the European Parliament on arms, or not to vote to move the amendment to second reading, or to vote to move the amendment to second reading, I have decided to support the proposed constitutional change and I recommend that our parliamentary club agree to the proposed change. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u51	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. So far, the last duly entered into the general debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u52	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, there has been a lot said here about the European directive on the possession of weapons and also about what is essentially its precise definition and what it contains. This means that the misinformation that resulted from this for members of hunting unity and similar are completely misleading. I want to address this bill now, because I believe it is false reasons, because there is a threat from the refugee crisis and from the war violence, and it is caused by pathological psychological manipulation with deliberately implanted concern into the public, averting a fictitious threat uniting the efforts of perverted patriotic friction. It is proposed that nothing be resolved by the amendment of the Constitution. It is merely one of the reasons for its existence as a unifying symbol of the nation. There is no real reason to bring this law forward and the stated objective of this law cannot be achieved by amending the Constitution. Because I think it's already been filled. I would like to draw attention to the provisions at issue. The amendment of the Constitution paves the way for the adoption of new legislation. These new regulations are to apply to Act No. 119/2002 Coll., on firearms and ammunition, i.e. the Act on Weapons, and implementation of the revised European Directive on the control of the acquisition and possession of firearms. Firstly, I believe that European law is equally superior to the Constitution. Secondly, the declared objective cannot be achieved by a new amendment to the Constitution, because it is already fulfilled. The existing Article 2 gives sufficient room to meet the objective. There is a widely defined obligation for all institutions and citizens to participate in ensuring the security of the Czech Republic in accordance with accepted legal obligations. Secondly, here in Article 2: State authorities, local authorities and legal and natural persons are obliged to participate in the security of the Czech Republic. The scope of the duties and other details are laid down in the law. What are the risks? I believe that someone is tempted to restrict the right to hold arms by constitutionally defining the purpose of holding a weapon. Anyone holding a weapon for another purpose will do so unjustly. Myslive will not be a game hunter in the first place, but, for example, a protector of the border, a military object, a member of the militia and so on. Defensive duty will be superior to any other interest and possible reason for holding a weapon. Finally, the militarisation of society under fictitious pretexts will only lead to an increase in aggression and violence. Any law that applies today can change the Chamber of Deputies. You can easily turn hunters into guardians of the border, but one sentence in the law on the possession of weapons and ammunition is enough. There's no need to change the Constitution. And finally, I want to say one more generally accepted fact when you look into the United States for crazy shooters. The size of a group capable of committing gun violence should be as small as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u53	I thank Mr Hovorka. I have two factual points here. First, Mr Igor Jakubčík, then Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u54	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would only like to respond to my previous speaker, colleague Hovorka. Nonsense, nonsense, nonsense, that's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u55	Thank you. Mr Antonín Seďa and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have been following the debate closely and I have missed one aspect and I would like to highlight it here. It is this European directive that will have a negative impact on Czech and Moravian arms and ammunition manufacturers. That hasn't happened here yet. And I got that information from the Defence and Security Industry Association. So this aspect also needs to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u57	Mr Ludvík Hovorka, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, followed by Mr Ivan Adamec, all factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u58	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would just like to respond to my colleague Jakubčík, through you. He said I said nonsense. I don't think so. I did not generally follow the European directive and I do not want to defend the European directive. Her true resemblance has already been communicated here. But what I want to say is that I have mainly devoted myself to the bill and the risks associated with this law. And I introduced them here. And I stand by what I said. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u59	Thank you. Mr Kalousek, then Mr Ivan Adamec, then Mr Igor Jakubčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u60	Thank you. With all due respect, a little illustration of the reasoning skills. I have put forward a situation here, and I have asked my previous speaker, Mr Ondráček, to try to explain how the amendment under discussion could change such a situation in any way. I couldn't, of course. And because he couldn't answer, he said, "You don't understand." Mr Hovorka made some argument - I am behind it, but that is not important - and Mr Jakubčík replied with a brilliant clear argument: nonsense, nonsense, nonsense. I am not making any big illusions about the reasoning capabilities of our mutual debate, however, if you have decided to simplify it this way, colleagues, perhaps to reach the end and say: nonsense, nonsense, nonsense, because it contradicts the final resolution XIV. Downhill. Then we'll all understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u61	Then MP Ivan Adamec and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u62	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I am also a bit of a conflict of interest, I am also an occasional shooter. But I don't think there's a dispute about whether the directive is good or bad. I think most of us here think that the directive is wrong, and all we're looking for is a way to deal with it. If the European Parliament had issued a directive on how to disarm terrorists based on the attacks that have taken place before, I do not think it would have frightened anyone and would have taken it as a reality. But disarming civilians, those with guns, that's probably what bothers us all, and that's why we're having this kind of debate here. And the question is just finding a form to deal with it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u63	Thank you. Mr Igor Jakubčík, then Mr Ondráček, then Mr Chalupa, then Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u64	Thank you for the floor. I'll specify nonsense, nonsense, nonsense. One single example. Hunters will guard the border. Nonsense. I could keep going, but I don't want to hold up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u65	Mr. Ondráček. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u66	Thank you. I'm sure you've noticed how I answered. Because Mr Kalousek mentioned either a or B, right? Some kind of argument. Or he said, or I don't understand. So I confirmed B, and in the subsequent discussion, when we were having it, my colleague Kalousek said he had a gun, too, and now we were talking about some bullets and so on. In the end, it turns out it's not a gun, it's a revolver, which is a completely different type. But it's just a drawing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u67	Mr Chalupa and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u68	Thank you for the floor. I was gonna say, like, in one movie, let's be nice to each other. But I guess that's nonsense. I really understand the position of this House and the adoption of this constitutional change as our message to the European Union, which may finally begin to perceive us a little bit more. It's a symbol, it's a message. As far as my colleague Kalousek is concerned, I don't think I'd be able to deal with the details here. I think the Defence and Security Committees will meet for that, at least. I think you have your representatives there, too, and we can discuss this from morning to night and look for professional and factual matters. We're not gonna explain it here anyway. I think it's pointless to think if someone's lying, saying nonsense and all that. It's whether we move it to second reading or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u69	Mr Ivan Gabal and his factual point. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u70	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I present that I do not have a gun or a gun card and, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, sometimes the left side of the House called me a hawk because I am pushing to increase defense spending, increase intelligence spending, improve European defence. I listen very carefully here to the debate of those who obviously have guns for various reasons, mostly about sports or interest. What comes from this, and I must say that many people with whom I do not often agree surprised me, is whether we should bend the Czech Constitution because we want to avoid... or to follow the standard of one European directive. Do we appreciate the Constitution so little? That's the Constitution we swore on. Everyone. And the other thing. Something extraordinary has happened in this country in the field of security and defence to say: the military and police are not enough for their tasks, the secret services are inadequate in the fight against terrorism and must we supplement them? And the third question. I take that as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, co-responsible for defending this country. Do we really want to burden private, sports and hunting arms holders with this constitutional law, with responsibility for defending this country? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Try answering these three questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u71	Mr Ludvík Hovorka and his point of order. After that, Mr Chalupa, Mrs Černochová, Mr Štěpán Stupčuk. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u72	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jakubčík here has made the words on nonsense clear. I just want to quote what's proposed. Paragraph 3 is added to the third Article of the Constitution: Citizens of the Czech Republic shall have the right to acquire, hold and carry weapons and ammunition to carry out the tasks referred to in paragraph 2. And it is stated in paragraph 2 that state authorities, local authorities and legal and natural persons are obliged to participate in the security of the Czech Republic. The scope of the duties and other details are laid down in the law. I think it's pretty clear, and that's how it's read, and that's how it's interpreted. That's what I came up with in my argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u73	Thank you. Mr Bohuslav Chalupa and his factual comment. After him, Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u74	Very fast. The answer to the question of whether something happened here is that of course it didn't happen. But the very important word at the end is "for now."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u75	Thank you. Mrs Jana Černochová. After that, Mr. Štěpán Stupčuk. Fame, I see you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u76	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like, by your means, to respond to my colleague Gabal. We have nothing to do but preserve the status quo, which is under current legislation, when crime, crime committed... [[The MP is silent because of the loud noise in the hall.]] ...with a legally held weapon, a legal weapon holder is 0.06. Please, this number didn't come up. I consider it essential that it be heard here. So much for my colleague Gabal. My colleague Kalousek through the Vice-President. I don't think the word shootout would be like that if the chairman of the TOP 09 club (?) he really read the directive and knew the number of rounds in each cartridge. He actually said stupid things here, and we had to respond. Enough to stand up for my colleague Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u77	Thank you. Mr. Ambassador Štěpán Stupčuk. After him, Mr. Jandák, if he meant it as an enrollment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u78	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to respond through you, Mr President, to Mr Gabal's words. It was just next door. The amendment does not concern the Constitution, so no one here is bending the Constitution, but it concerns one of the constitutional laws which, together with the Constitution, creates constitutional order. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u79	Thank you. Mr Jandák, after him Member Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u80	Thank you for your kindness, Mr President. I am not forcing myself here, but I am still impressed by Mr Gabal, who has said very loudly here that he is co-responsible as Vice-President or Chairman, perhaps, of the Defence Committee for this country. So I think that's why we should all make it mandatory for the Constitution, that every adult from the age of 18 should fake a weapon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u81	Member Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Because it's a habit to say who's in conflict or not, I also declare that I have a gun license for years, but I never thought I should use a gun against anyone, and I don't feel any conflict of interest. However, I believe that this proposal is very reasonable and necessary. It is needed for many reasons. It is necessary for us to give a clear signal that the way in which the European Union approaches security problems in Europe is absolutely wrong and that we reject this proposal. Two. This is also needed because it is necessary to signal the public that security is not obvious, as it was obvious ten or fifteen years ago, that the security situation is deteriorating significantly and that it is the responsibility of all of us to take care of security as well. I would like to refer to Mr Gabal's words through Mr President that perhaps there is some bending of the Constitution. First of all, it is a constitutional law and, second, who other than the Chamber of Deputies should legitimately, regularly debate the need to change something in the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. It seems perfectly understandable, absolutely correct to me, and I will be happy to finally agree that we are to make such a change.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u83	Thank you. Mr Miroslav Kalousek and his point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u84	Thank you. Excuse me, just two reactions, because some performances shouldn't be left unanswered after all. Mr Jandák's speech. Mr Gabal, whether we like it or not, has the constitutional responsibility because it was elected by the people and the Chamber of Deputies. He's got it like all of us. And if you have the constitutional responsibility of any of us, through the President, Mr Member, you understand as you have said here, then there is sufficient reason for us not to vote for you ever again, because you are only making fun of constitutional responsibility. [[16.40 hours]] The second point about me saying stupid things here. Yes, instead of number 10, I said number 30, and I humbly apologize for that, which I think was my only mistake. Nevertheless, I insist that the restriction of storage tanks on a self-loading rifle to 10 rounds is not sufficient reason to change the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This is a reason for us not to agree, but it is not a reason to change the Constitution of the Czech Republic. We're going with the cannon on the sparrow.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u85	Thank you to President Kalousek. Mr Štěpán Stupčuk and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u86	Thanks for the word, for the last time. The Constitution really doesn't change here. We're changing one of the laws that's part of the constitutional order here, so let's call these things the real names and not take the authority of the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u87	Thank you. Mr Jandák and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u88	I'll be brief, but decency is responding to our coalition partner Mirka Kalousek. I wanted to say, Mirek, just one thing through the President. [[Laughing in the hall]] [[President: Please, the coalition partner through me. Thank you.]] By my means, thank you very much, but the coalition partner was essential. I just wanted to say one thing that I didn't mean to make fun of you. It's a tragedy for me that this guy is Vice-President of the Security Committee! So, with that choice, be careful not to ever vote for me! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u89	So, so far, this has been the last one entered into the general debate. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I am asking about the final words of the appellant, or the rapporteur, as the case may be. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, there has been quite an intense debate over the proposal for an amendment to this law. There were arguments for and against, as could be expected after all. Personally, I believe that more arguments were made for the adoption of this amendment to the Czech Security Act. Although, of course, and I said it at the beginning that the objective is not to fight the European directive on restricting the legal possession of weapons, even though it was a certain impetus for starting work on this bill. I would just like to remind you that, within the framework of this directive, it is envisaged to re-evaluate it every two years, when it is expected that proposals will be tabled again for further tightening up, as European Commission President Juncker has, after all, announced at a time when the directive has not yet taken effect and has already stated that it is not very strict. So, from this point of view, the amendment to the constitutional law to the future can also be important for the Czech Republic. A lot of comments have been made, and I have noted only one that I am particularly interested in, and I think we should remember it, from Mr Hovorka, that in this case it is a perverse patriotic racket. Then I think it is really good to remember what the Member thinks. Several questions were also raised as to the reason for the presentation of this bill. I'd take the liberty of saying this here because there were some speculations about how it might have been, but I happened to be there. So, as you know, the Ministry of the Interior has submitted a proposal for an amendment to the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic, which took place by means of a short notice procedure. In this commentary procedure, there were reservations about this law, and when we were subsequently at the meeting of myself, the Minister of the Interior and Prime Minister Sobotka, and the President of the Government's Legislative Council, Chvojka, wondering if it was possible to discuss this law within this parliamentary term, we found that we were unable to do so in time and that the only option, and that is an objective fact, is to use another way of legislative process, namely to present the draft law as a parliamentary initiative. That is, in this consultation we agreed on this, we took into account the comments from the commentary procedure and the constitutional lawyer of the Office of the Government modified the text to today's form to be acceptable, and therefore conformary to constitutional lawyers. Subsequently, the law was prepared here in the House and we offered the opportunity to sign it to Members of other political parties. I must say that it was relatively short time, about half a day, so many Members who would like to sign it did not have the option. This was for the sake of order, for the audience at the gallery, that some who supported the law from the very beginning did not simply sign it because of the time and speed of discussion, whether it was Mr Chalupa, who claimed it, or perhaps Mr Lank, who did not sign it, because he would become rapporteur on the Security Committee and would not be able to do that as a petitioner. Thus, this bill, originally established, as I said, has become a proposal for Members across the political spectrum. And as it turns out, we'll see in the third reading if the law gets there, and I believe it will, and that's why I would like to ask you, at the end of my final speech, to support the law's procedure to the first (?) reading so that we can discuss it in committees. In this case, we still had such a debate with the rapporteur, because the organisational committee proposed this law as a constitutional committee to the constitutional committee of constitutional law, however, given that it is a constitutional law on security, it is also offered that this guarantee committee could be a committee on security, which I would like to propose. And I would ask you, because there really is, I would say, 50-50, which of the committees it is for the House to decide in its vote, which of the committees will become a committee of guarantee, and the other one should certainly then discuss it, of course, also, although not as a guarantee committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u91	Thank you, Mr. plaintiff. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. He does. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u92	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will also try to be brief and summarize just the course of the debate. I would like to have one comment here on the many times declared by some and undeclared conflict of interest. I believe that when it comes to constitutional regulation that prescribes some constitutional right, which is not implemented, that it is nonsense to declare there whether or not I am in conflict of interest. That's about the same as talking about the right to life, and each of us was saying that he was alive or potentially executed if he had done the sort of deed that would have led to it. I just don't think we're doing anything here, but we're talking about a constitutional law that guarantees the constitutional right to hold a gun. Seven Members spoke properly in the debate, two Ministers, although I was not sure in what direction they acted as ministers or Members, because they were both Members at the same time, and the Minister of the Interior acted partly as Minister of the Interior, but partly as a Member and co-signer, and the Minister of Defence acted at least very pacifistically, so I was not sure whether he acted as a Member or as a Minister of Defence. Furthermore, a number of other Members who have made factual comments. If memory does not deceive me, no one has proposed a proposal to return the applicant to work or to reject the bill, only Mrs Černochová has tabled a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 54 days. So much for a summary of the debate. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u93	Thank you to the rapporteur. Also, according to my records, no one has proposed a motion to return or reject the proposed bill, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to committees for discussion. First, we decide on the guarantee committee's commandment. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposed proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. I have noted Mr Váňa's motion on the commandment to the Security Committee as a guarantee, which I take as a counter-proposal, and I will be the first to vote on it. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. There's a check-out request. I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. [[Big noise in the hall. Members argue which committee is to be guaranteed because it is a constitutional law, even when it comes to security.]] We will vote on the commandment to the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 354, registered is 141 Members and Members, for 75, against 37. The motion was accepted. I'm of the opinion that the proposal was ordered by the Security Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? [[The conjecture in the room doesn't stop. Member Stanjura requests a vote check.]] There's a vote check. We'll wait for the vote check. [[Unbearable noise in the room.]] To the vote by Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u94	I'm really sorry, I wanted to vote no, but I've got a pro at high school, so I'm gonna question the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u95	Thank you. We will vote on Mrs Adamová's objection. Initiating vote on the objection of Mrs... [[Mr Okleštěk objects that there is no question of voting by words I wanted.]] I declare this vote confusing. The lady questioned the vote, she objected, Mr Governor, and I put her objection to the vote. If you object to my progress, please sign in. We will repeat the vote on Mrs Markéta Pekarová's objection to Adamová. I am opening the vote on this objection. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 356. 144 Members and Members are registered, for 132, against 2. Objection received. We will therefore repeat the motion on the commandment to the Security Committee as a guarantee. President Stanjura with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u96	It may be futile, but it is not normal to change the Constitution and have a guarantee committee to have security for those 74 colleagues who supported his proposal. [[Objection from the diaper that it's not the Constitution, it's the Constitutional Law.]] It's a constitutional law, okay. But we just have a constitutional committee. I think the title is very clear. As a club, we encourage this issue to be directed to the Security Committee as well, but not as a guarantee. Try to remember the names of the committees and the difference between the roles we have here. That's what the inspection committee could do, right? He'll check to see if the bill is right. [[Members of the Supervisory Committee are told from the plenary that it is not the task of the Supervisory Committee to check draft laws.]] Nothing against the inspection committee, okay? But there's a wiser chairman, and he doesn't suggest it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u97	We will vote on the commandment to the Security Committee as a guarantee. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 357, 146 Members and Members registered, for 50, against 75. The motion was not accepted. We will therefore return to the original proposal tabled by the Organising Committee, which proposed that the Constitutional Committee be a committee of guarantee. I am opening the vote on this proposal. Whoever is in favour of the constitutional committee being a guarantee committee, let him raise his hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 358; 146 Members and Members are registered, for 143, against none. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Mr Kalousek and Mr Benda applied for the proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u98	Thank you. I would like to propose ordering the draft of this law to the Committee on Agriculture, because self-loading rifles model 58 are used to shoot oversized black game. And I would certainly be interested in the expert opinion of our House expert body, how many pieces of game we miss out on the necessary regulation, if the stock of this rifle is reduced from thirty to ten rounds of bullets, and what damage it will do to our fields, our legions and our defenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u99	I thank Mr Kalousek. Mr Benda, Mr Kováčik after him. Sorry. Mr Kováčik, Mr Benda prefers you. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u100	Thank you. I also thank Mr Benda. I wanted to tell Mr President, Mr Kalousek, that by controlling black game, the amendment to the Hunting Act, which recently arrived in the Chamber of Deputies, which I believe will still be dealt with. And as for the gun he was talking about, I feel it's not a weapon that's allowed to be used for hunting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u101	Thank you. Mr. Benda. After that, Mr Korte. We're talking about the commandments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u102	Yes, I suggest we order the Security Committee after this dramatic last vote, because I think it belongs to him, of course. We just wanted the guarantee committee to be a constitutional committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u103	Yes. Thank you. Mr Korte has no further proposal. I said, who has a suggestion? Mr. Mr. Zlatuška. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u104	Given the frequent application of weapons abroad in this environment, I would suggest a Committee of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u105	The school committee. I don't think we necessarily have to repeat everything abroad. Mr. Pilný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u106	Thank you for the floor. If this law were adopted, I think we have a lot to fix in medical capacity, so I would also suggest a health committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u107	Health Committee, yes. Is that all? Or is there anyone else? Mr. Hájek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u108	Mr President, colleagues, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Seďa here spoke about the possibility of this affecting the armory, so I think that logically this must also be part of the negotiations of the Committee on Economic Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u109	Mr. Skalický.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u110	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Given that this is also a defense of the country, I suggest that the Defence Committee get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-005-176.u111	Defense. There. Is this the final motion on the commandment of the committee for discussion? Doesn't anyone else have a suggestion? [[He doesn't.]] Thank you. We will therefore vote gradually. First of all, Mr Kalousek's proposal on the commandment to the agricultural committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the agricultural committee. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the number 359 vote, 147 Members and Members, for 34, against 92. The motion was not accepted. Mr Benda has proposed the commandment of the Security Committee. Initiating vote on the Security Committee's commandment. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the 360 vote, 147 Members and Members, 136, against 4. The motion was accepted. [[17,00 hours]] Mr. Zlatuška has proposed the commandment of the Education Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment of the Education Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 361, registered 147 Members and Members, for 15, against 101. The motion was not accepted. Mr Pilný has proposed to order this bill to the Health Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Health Committee. Who's in? Who's against it? It is voting number 362, 147 Members and Members registered, for 30, against 87. The motion was not accepted. Mr Hájek has proposed a commandment to the Economic Committee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 363, 147 Members and Members registered, for 31, against 86. The motion was not accepted. The last, Mr Skalický suggested ordering this motion to the Defence Committee. Initiating vote. Whoever is for the command of the defense committee, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 364, 147 Members and Members, for 66, against 62. The motion was not accepted. The last proposal made here is a proposal to shorten the deadline to 54 days, as proposed by Mrs Černochová. I am opening the vote on the proposal to shorten the deadline to 54 days for discussion. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is the vote number 365, registered 147 Members and Members, for 98, against 25. The motion was accepted. I note that the bill has been ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee, as well as to the Security Committee, and the deadline has been reduced to 54 days. I conclude the first reading of this bill and thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
