ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-001-022.u1	22. Proposal for the election of the Presidents of the Permanent Commissions of the Chamber of Deputies This point was interrupted on Friday 15. 12. 2017. The debate on this point has been closed. I will ask the President of the Election Commission, Martin Kolovratník, to guide us through the next procedure on this point. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-001-022.u2	Dear Members of the Government, Mr President, colleagues, I also wish you a good afternoon and come up with election points. I promise that the procedure or my performance will be as brief as possible to take as little time as possible, which is now intended for the third reading of the state budget. Just as it was designed from Gremium, as we voted a little while ago, the first of these two electoral points is point No. 22, The proposal to elect the Presidents of the Permanent Commissions of the Chamber of Deputies, and then there will be another electoral point. In both cases, elections will take place in a secret way. At this point in the State Act, everything is ready. We did last week at the election marathon... One of the elections or one of those elections we made was not so-called. successful. It was the first choice, the first round of the chair of the Permanent Commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the General Inspection of Security Corps. Here in this election was the only candidate Mr. Zdeněk Ondráček, proposed under the KSČM. In the first round he won 85 votes and the number needed to be elected was 94 votes. Thus, once again, the only candidate - Mr Ondráček - has advanced to the second round, and in this case, the second round of the first election will take place shortly. There. At the same point, we have prepared a proposal for you to elect the President of the Permanent Commission of the House for the Constitution of the Czech Republic. It was the additional nomination from my colleagues in social democracy. We adopted Resolution No. 37 per rollam and there is only one proposal, which therefore corresponds to those political agreements. It is nominated and proposed by Mrs Kateřina Valachová. Since in the first case it is the second round of elections and in this case it is one nomination, we have not already given you the resolution, but all clubs have it at their disposal. And let me remind you, according to the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's chairmen vote in a majority manner and a secret vote. Now, please, Mr President, about interrupting this point and opening up another electoral point. That'll be the OKD committee mentioned. I only draw attention to this point if anyone would like to speak in the debate that it has been closed. One of the members of the government would have to reopen the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-001-022.u3	I thank you, Mr President, and of course I will oblige you. Interrupting item No. 22. Opening new entry point
