ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government... [[None of the members of the government are present.]] Here comes the Prime Minister. I start another meeting on the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all. I'd like you all to sign up with ID cards and, if necessary, let me know who's applying for a replacement card. I am saying that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Mr Vojtěch Adam for work reasons, Ivan Adamec for no reason, Margita Balaštíková for health reasons, Jan Bartošek for afternoon meetings for work reasons, Jiří Běhounek for work Josef, Josef Berdychová for work reasons, Marek Černoch for health reasons, Pavel Čihák for work reasons, Jaroslav Faltýnek for health reasons, excuse Mr Faltýnek for medical reasons, Jan Farský for Tureček of foreign travel, Karel Havíř for work Ivan, Olga Havlová for health reasons, Václav Horáček from 14.30 to 18 hours for personal reasons, David Kasal from 9.30 to 13 hours for health reasons, Jaroslav Klaška from work for Pleticha of work, for Jiří of work, Martin Komárek until 10.30 for personal Zemánek, Leo Luzar for health reasons, Květa Matušovská for Šenfeld reasons, Nykl Uhlík for personal reasons, Iglas for personal reasons, Josef Nykal for reasons, Jana Pastel, for František, for Roman, for Volný, for Jan for reasons of the Vlastimil of the Vozka of Pilný of Mr. From the members of the government today the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka apologizes from 9:30 to 12:00 and from 13:00 for work reasons, Andrej Babiš for work reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek for health reasons, Richard Brabec until 12 and from 14:30 for work reasons, Milan Chovanec for work reasons, Marian Jurečka for work reasons, Miloslav Ludvík for morning meetings for work reasons, Michaela Marksová for morning meetings for work reasons, Martin Stropnickýý for morning meetings for work reasons, Dan Ťok from 11:00 for work reasons, Kateřina Valachová for work reasons and Lubomír Zaorálek until 11.30 for work reasons. President Hamáček will be voting today with replacement card number 10. Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes from 9 to 10.15 today, and today, for personal reasons, Mr Jiří Junek apologizes. Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 290, which are the answers of the members of the government to written interpelations. Please note that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted no later than 11 o'clock and their draw will take place at 11.30 p.m. So we're going to go ahead and talk about this.
