ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u1	281. Information of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the situation on the completed section D8 I ask that the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on this extraordinary point, he was, at the request of Mr Laudát, through Mr President. I just wouldn't want to keep it too long. From my point of view, the D8 has a very long history that ended on December 17, 2016, when the motorway was operational. The Road and Motorway Directorate has proceeded to limit traffic on the basis of recommendations of experts, so we only ride one lane at Prackovická estacade, but I am convinced that all parameters of the motorway show that the next lane can be operational soon. The highway is serving all citizens today, and I think it has greatly relieved the entire region. I have information that it should be as an exit from this item of the resolution. I can say for myself that I have no problem with this resolution. I also support ensuring an independent forensic audit. There is one point, but we will probably get to that later in the debate that the Chamber of Deputies is asking the Minister of Transport to publish the processed analyses of the causes of the slide that took place in section 0805 of the D8 motorway in June 2013. I would just like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that all analyses are available on the Ministry of Transport's website today. And the same is paragraph 5 when the government is asking to submit all the costs that have been incurred in bringing an action. These are matters that are on the pages of ŘSD and SŽDC. I think they are open to the public, so I do not see a fundamental reason for this to be in the resolution. I'm ready to discuss it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u3	Thank you, too. As of 6:00 p.m., she's canceling her note, Mrs. Semelová. And now I ask that the plaintiff of this point, Mr František Laudát, take the floor, who will also be the rapporteur. You, Minister, may I ask you to take a seat at the rapporteur's desk? Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for allowing this point to be discussed. I didn't insist on him until Christmas. I don't know if the purpose was already included on the day when the state budget was approved, and here the stretching on the side of one coalition party was the purpose that when the motorway somehow opened up, it was more likely to open up in the section 0805 through the Czech Central Mountains, so that it would be an uninteresting topic. I believe that if you open up publicly available resources, you will also find a report from the Supreme Audit Office, so, of course, even the relatively simple report, which is far from going into depth, does not go into technical matters, so you must say that this cannot be the end of the action. Here we are witnessing that very often people in the civilian sector, in the private sector, in the backpacking business, officials are given great authority, and here, in my opinion, someone has made a series of completely fatal mistakes that cost many billions extra. And what's even worse is that in the future, they can lead to hundreds of millions or even billions more. And it may also happen that the motorways will have to be closed in case of possible additional slides and damage to existing works in the section, that is, transport can return to the original route for long months, i.e. the inhabitants of Bořislav, Velemína can continue to suffer huge transit traffic, with this section of course taking on further transport. There will probably be an increase in the transport burden over the next few years and the consequences for municipalities can be even worse. It is shocking to me that I have been given unofficial information that there are some serious problems going on, and it is alarming for me that a number of Members and Members here have known about this and have all been silent. I'm afraid that's what we're getting into before 1989, when someone's spreading optimism at all costs. Watchdogs of democracy lie down and happily gnaw at bowls full of food. It's okay. And yet this is about fatal mistakes. I fear that it may also be the case that someone has an eminent interest in making a fatal error in this action so delayed in time that they will be kept silent - something has happened for a long time. It is only about analyzing from the beginning to the present, with a view of what is potentially still at risk there, because the guilty should be found and should end up in their functions or, if necessary, a legal and material responsibility should be drawn towards those who have actually doubted. It is unacceptable for me to say that nature is responsible in this case because many things have been known for decades or hundreds of years and have been fatally ignored. But it's got a second leg. We are witnessing how much less roads and highways are built, all the more errors, defects, see D47, see part D3 through the Koberný pond and so on and so on. [[18.10 hours]] I'm no longer enjoying this for the huge money we're paying for those huge times construction companies are demanding and they're being tolerated. I don't know if he's so slow to stop somewhere in the world, and as miserable as the last few years have been here in a row of points. I'm not saying that everyone and everywhere does it, but the mistakes are starting to multiply, they're getting bigger. And I think that section 0805 through the Czech Central Mountains is the culmination of the whole crisis that has happened, and it is the culmination of the long-term state of the Road and Motorway Directorate. What I say and repeat to me is alarming that someone looks like there are problems, we solve problems. But it's not enough for me. To published analyses. I don't know. I mean, it could have gone without me trying to push the minister here, and only after it was clear and passed the point -- why couldn't the analysis be published earlier? Mr Hovorka here added my motion for a resolution in that there is still some original version and then a corrected version, and he wants everything to be published. I confess, and I may have overlooked it, but if you please, Minister, fill me in, the Road and Motorway Directorate and SŽDC filed a lawsuit last year on the Stone Zbraslav, which is the owner and operator of the quarry Dobkovička, from whose edge the slide fell off and went down on the highway, on the unfinished body of the D8 motorway. In view of the subsequent public statements made by some assessors, construction actors, etc., I consider that the basis for the application was a private opinion or an order by a private person. I'd like you to confirm or disprove here. It seems very strange to me if in 2013 immediately after the slide of the then government imposed on the Ministry of Transport, respectively. Minister's transport, find out the causes, enter the analysis and draw some suggestions and solutions from it, so the analysis wasn't specified until last year, sometimes in April, I think. That means there was a delay of two and a half years. In the meantime, three ministers took turns. Part of this belongs to Minister Took, the entire term of Minister Prachař, and before that, Minister Žák was in Rusnokův's government. So I'm asking if it's normal for the state to need two-and-a-half years to determine the causes of the crisis, the fatal problem there. And suddenly, a lawsuit is filed very quickly. I suppose - I don't know if it's on your site, because I've checked it again based on an interview with you, so there's also an opinion that's the basis for the lawsuit. I don't know whether it's possible or not, because it's an opinion - and I find it very unusual that the state is going to take some kind of opinion from a private person who probably has some property interests there, and that's what two state institutions are going to do. I got unofficially the views of the Czech Geological Society, which therefore has the private opinion at my disposal. I was asked not to delay for long, so I will only read the conclusion from the Czech Geological Service: In view of the above characteristics of the materials examined, the Czech Geological Service does not recommend the Road and Motorway Directorate of the Czech Republic taking into account the conclusions, quotes, expert superviserovský - about supervaizorovského opinion number 12/2014 Dobkovičky - slide on the D8 motorway - construction 805, and thus the relevant legal steps to respond to the complaint. Par excellence The Czech Geological Service, which is the pride of our country in this field, tells you: do not do this. I do not understand why an opinion has not been given which could serve as a defence for this institution or for someone truly credible. I consider it a disgraceful procedure that has happened in this case. Similarly, perhaps even harder words, it tears this opinion, on the basis of which the state institutions, our investors, filed a lawsuit against the Stone Zbraslav for the quarry, Arcadis, which is doing a very skilled job on a number of buildings. And again, I'm just gonna limit myself to the conclusion of their material, which is dated 24 March 2015, where the conclusion is - and I'm not gonna be here to read the answers to all the things that are in that opinion, which apparently wasn't published, the private opinion. Conclusion: The expert supervisor's opinion is unilaterally processed in order to blame the creation of a slide on the quarry Dobkovičky. The hypotheses described are rather based on own estimates based on individual experience and are not supported by relevant analyses and calculations. In addition, Sesov turned himself in outside of the destructions in which the previous downhill disturbances occurred. For these reasons, we consider him biased. So two institutions, unlike the processor of the private opinion, are telling you or the investor of ŘSD: don't do this. Still, the S.O.D. did it. I just, ladies and gentlemen, why do I ask you, I proposed a resolution here before Christmas, which was: Item 1 - to publish all the analyses. Something happened. Maybe the Minister here will specify if everything is there. Item number two - forensics audit of the whole event from the beginning to now with some prediction that's threatening there. Point number three... With the government guaranteeing that this will be an impartial and independent opinion. As you know, the Czech ČR is too small to wash the hand. And that the hand washes the hand now, I am convinced by the behaviour of the Ministry of Transport, the investor and others. It has sometimes flashed, but given that we have been driven out of the SFDI Executive Committee as opposition, we have very limited access to information, but I do not believe that it is being handled responsibly with the care of a proper economy, as it faces these problems. That means I want you to support the request for the government to provide an opinion. That he's gonna put it to the Minister of Transport, and who's gonna do it after that, it's her responsibility whether anyone will question the seriousness of the report or part of it, that's up to her. And point number three was that if possible and it could be done, the government would inform the House of Prime Minister Sobotka's mouth at the June meeting of this year about the results of the forensic audit, and all the results and the entire forensic audit should be known to the public. It's always been fenced in a lot of things, and we've been there since this morning, some past of anyone, and who's done what, etc. The Minister was not in the process of inventing this action, so I suppose he will have no problem presenting the material to whom he falls. And now for your own resolution. To my proposal, Mr Hovorka of KDU added, let us discuss whether or not we will support some of the things that are necessary. Item number one of the proposals would be: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Transport to publish all the processed analyses of the causes of the slide that took place on section 0805 of the D8 motorway in June 2013. And now there is a supplement: To analyze the Academy of Sciences version original and version corrected, after alleged comments by the Czech Geological Service, term January 2017. [[Result]] [[18.20 hours]] The second point is quite extensive in order to ensure that there are really no turns. And I think that whoever will be selected for a forensic audit, we have no problem, for example, in the Economic Committee, getting to know the assignment so that no part of it is apparently left out. However, that point here is the resolution: calls on the Government to ensure an independent forensic audit of the construction of the 0805 motorway D8, which will include in particular the examination of the preparation of the construction, the quality of the project, the performance of the technical supervision of the building and the construction manager, the course of the construction and the events relating to the real findings on the construction, the legal audit of the contracts concluded, including additions, compliance with the public procurement law, the fulfilment of the Czech Government resolution by the investor, analysis of the multi-work, the costs incurred in the remediation of the slide, the supporting walls and all the instability of the entire work, including the work experience, and an estimate of the cost of remediation of the work in the area of potential slides and monitoring of the territory for a period of time - here is 100 years, but I think for a further decade, I would rather clarify it. Multi-work must be documented including all documents, documents, research, geodetic focus, analysis, project documentation and written protocols on the approval of multi-operations of the Czech Republic, designer and technical supervision. Date: without delay. This means the assignment so that the processing company is selected and the work is started. Many of these things are also based on a publicly accessible audit finding by the Supreme Audit Office, number 15/29, where there is talk of violations of the Public Procurement Act, neglect by the ŘSD, poor preparation of the project and so on and so on. I'm just saying, although it wasn't deep control, there's still a lot. And I think that in this case, it is not about formal errors, but about really very serious findings that should not just be kept in mind, as is common practice for all governments, with regard to SAO audit findings. Mr Hovorka then proposes item number three, which asks the Government to present an overview of all natural and legal persons, including employees who participated in the construction and supervision of the building, including the geodetic focus and geological, hydrogeological and geotechnical surveys, including all legal services, monitoring and project services from 1993 until now, the current date January 2017, including the individual costs incurred for these activities and services. Individually state responsible persons of employees of ŘSD CR and their functions and positions since 1993 in relation to this event, and what specific activity they have performed. There's a deadline for January 2017. And another point, fourthly, asks the government for information on the audit results. Date June 2017. Fifthly, Mr Hovorka's proposal asks the Government to submit all the costs incurred in bringing an action against Kamen Zbraslav, a. s., the owner of the quarry Dobkovička, including the costs of legal services, the composition of principal, the costs of producing expert opinions, including a list of all the expert opinions that have been supported by the ŘSD and SŽDC in court. Date January 2017. My brief comment, and that concludes my resolution so far. If the Minister says on those pages it was just my incompetence or my stupidity to find all the opinions, including the variants, I take it, there's no problem to rule out that point number one. If that's not the case, then the Department of Transport should complete it. Point two is absolutely crucial. This concerns a forensic audit of the entire operation. Point three, I believe that if a forensic audit and a smooth audit are carried out, there will be companies, natural, legal persons who have been responsible. I assume she'll be part of the forensic audit. However, if Mr Hovorka insists, we would vote on it. I note that there will be a vote on all points, I will propose individually. About that last point, that's the lawsuit, I don't know. We will, of course, vote on this, depending on how the colleague insists or does not insist. However, it is rather shocking to me that the state will take some private opinion, even though it has a top-notch institution and we have top-notch world workplaces in the Academy of Sciences, and it relies on some private opinion of private, apparently natural persons. And that's what lawsuits against some businessman are all about. That sounds very, very, very, very dilettant to me. Of course, if there was any delay in time, surely the time delay was that someone had not fulfilled, did not bother at all since 2013, since the order of the Nečasův government, to fulfill the tasks assigned to the Minister of Transport, that it had to take two and a half years. For another thing, then, when there is a time pressure, I suppose it was possible to invent a legal structure, to file a lawsuit with some preliminary opinion, but not to rely on this opinion, if you could possibly call it a case based on the two conclusions I informed you about here, with the fact that it could then be supplemented in the lawsuit. It's just that the state will be embarrassed by the shame of the coat. And I think he already has that procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, moreover, any pink-painting should be stopped, but also in the black, the situation that is there. The Minister recently assured that during January the motorway would be open in full. Now you know it's not gonna be open whole, so it's gonna be halfway there. pánbůh knows how it's gonna work out. I believe that the ŘSD should inform the public and all and Members of everything in an objective and transparent manner. I noticed, before Christmas, the engineer Lány, already retired today, who was the manager of the construction of the section from Ústí nad Labem through the Krušné hory on the state border. He said it was actually our fault. That politicians are responsible for the frequent exchange of ministers and then politicians in the House. I don't know if he said directly in the House, but I don't know, and I'm not aware that we should be overseeing individual buildings, that we should be overseeing... And I even think that the Minister should not be the technical supervisor of an investor, that he should not be rechecking projects. That's what the investor's responsibility is for. And, of course, I don't think there's a problem now, and there should be names of who was the building manager, who was doing the technical supervision, who was designing it, because, in my opinion, there are some mistakes that have led to what happened. Thank you for your attention so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u5	Thank you. I am now initiating a general debate and asking who is applying for it. Please, Mr. Ambassador, the next envoy is Mr. Hovorka. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Members of the government, esteemed colleagues, it is true that I prepared for this speech for an extraordinary meeting last year, when the issue of opening up and putting into service the last section of the D8 motorway was a very topical and medialy popular topic. It is a fact of what my colleague Laudát said that today we are in a situation where this section has been opened and put into operation, albeit in a limited measure as regards the workstation. [[18.30 hours]] I expected information from the Minister about the stage at which we are currently in terms of successful operation and monitoring of this part of the motorway, because, as has already been mentioned here, in 2013, after approximately 27 years of building the D8 motorway from Prague on the state border with the German Federal Republic, there was a landslide. And I took the liberty of intersecting the Minister back then because of the track that was part of the transport infrastructure damaged by this slide. I have received answers as to how many projected estimates of the costs of this activity are, and therefore we still have unsolved questions, and unfortunately I have to join my colleague Laudát, that it is not enough for me to notify and recommend the Minister to contact the public pages of the Ministry of Transport and ŘSD, where we will know the required ones. I think that we are on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies deserves the Minister, together with the heads of the ŘSD, to present us with reports as required by the resolution. It is a fact that, as a representative of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, I do not require all the points proposed in the resolution, because I believe that some are too technical, and there are too many details which do not explain what we expected as politicians, that we will get information on the sustainability of the last section of D8 and, in particular, all technical and technological measures that are further related to this operational section and also what costs will be associated with it, because I understand that the Minister has entered into a situation with D8 at the time of completion of the last section. He could not influence the previous developments and I consider him a great hero when he promised in the summer of 2015 that the motorway would be fully operational in December 2016. He entered the office with the fact that - I understand - he could not know the details of how the situation was developing with regard to the establishment of the construction and all technical and technological processes, which are related to the construction of the workstation and also in the section of the tunnel, which were chosen in this surface variant. I think, overall, the construction was an unfortunate construction. First, it lasted a very long time and it was expensive. I'm just gonna mention one thing when I'm talking about the price. This 17-mile section, which we are now to talk about, was originally to cost the project $3 billion. Subsequently, when problems with this route were solved, the price of magically increased to CZK 7.4 billion. The contest for the contractor at a time when it was decided several years apart, it was written to CZK 9.9 billion and the final implementation was estimated, and this was just to be told by the Minister, overall to CZK 15 billion. I am convinced, after all the information publicly available and after all the assurances that this section of the motorway will not only be linked to the cost of its own construction, but must continue monitoring. Further measures related to hydrogeological storage of the building must be continued, with underground water being lost in individual municipalities related to the motorway. Yes, municipalities will certainly be relieved of the dangerous transport burden, for that is thanks to the Minister's courage, but on the other hand there are other and other costs. And we never know how high they will be, how long these costs will last, and I expected that we would learn at least in the outline today as part of the Minister's information. In conclusion, let me just say one thing. I am prepared to support the proposed resolution in paragraph 1, 2 together with my colleagues from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. Of course, even at point 4 proposed, when this is the result of a forensic audit. And we will certainly not miss paragraph 5 of the resolution either, because there are so many uncertainties related to the way in which the claim was brought on the quarry, which, in my opinion, is or is not in addition to this construction, has, according to the information available, had no major influence as water retention on the land slide. The land slide was after rainy rains, and I believe that if this weather situation recurs, no one, not even the Minister today, can guarantee that there will be a partial repetition of the situation with the movement of the slope, and in particular no one can guarantee that the establishment of the workspace is so stable that the monitoring that is carried out there will serve us to prevent the worst, which means that construction becomes dangerous for road traffic. So much for the motion for a resolution. And I hope that the Minister will answer some of my questions during the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u7	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Next up is Mr. Hovorka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u8	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I am already on the D8 motorway and have repeatedly intersected Minister Took in the case of the slide. He's always answered me so far. I even have a promise that we will get a list of people who have been involved in the course - since the beginning of the construction on supervision, control of design, etc., which I think is very important. At the same time, in my opinion, some kind of audit should also be commissioned, so that we call it forensics, simply an error that has occurred. I think the whole problem of the D8 motorway can be divided into several such major points. And the first, biggest mistake occurred in the case of the decision to guide the route, when essentially the Ministry of Transport - then, of course. The decision took place in the deep past, it had to have a clear basis. And the SAO's finding, which dealt with the D8 motorway as such, also pointed out that it had decided to lead the route in the given territory, even though it was known that there were at least nine active slides in the given territory. So it was a fundamental error that actually brought about the problems that culminated in 2013 and that we are still dealing with today. The second - this is the slide, the rendering of the slide and, of course, the causes of the slide. The main cause of the slide was the quarry Dobkovičky, which belongs to the company Kámen Zbraslav, both by the fact that on the edge, on the top of the top of the slope was stored extracted gravel, thereby overloading the slope, and on the one hand, that all the water from this quarry was taken towards the highway, to the troublesome place where the slide eventually occurred. That means there's been a insertion into the basement and there's been a slide. The slide was huge - 400 times 600 meters. There has been a shift of both the highway and the railroad itself, which is a short distance away. The problem of remediation, which was actually the subject of the greatest conjecture, in my opinion, cannot be resolved definitively, because if you are talking to geologists, they will tell you: the shear surface on which the slope runs is at a depth of 30 to 50 meters. This normal technology normally available in the Czech Republic is very difficult to reach, and therefore probably the movement of the slope will continue. It is a question of how many times the winter season and the soil thawing season will repeat, and it may occur that the highway will continue to run again. [[18.40 hours]] As far as the SAO's finding is concerned, I would recommend to each of the Members to get acquainted with it. All it takes is a check-up. I also requested the protocols themselves. It was our former colleague Karel Sehoř. I think he did it very well. What was essential to me was the finding that the SAO's audit bodies did not have all the documents and documents available for this construction. How is it that building that is not yet closed, I think evaluated and so on, cannot be traced through building journals and so on? So they were either withheld from the SAO authorities, or hidden, or shredded, as I learned. Then I do not understand why there has been a change of instructions, which have been established under Minister Čermák that all parts of the documentation, meeting records, project documentation, all items relating to supply relations, etc. must be archived during the lifetime of the construction. I know it's even been decided to digitize these materials. And if another minister came along and decided that this measure had been repealed, I think it was a gross mistake that should not be repeated. This means that there must also be some conclusions that ŘSD and the Ministry of Transport really must ensure that the materials of the buildings must be digitized and archived for the lifetime of the construction, otherwise it is not possible to track specific culprits. I, of course, support the motion for a resolution tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Laudát. I just wanted to add what he mentioned here so that we could analyse the Academy of Sciences, version of the original and version corrected, resulting in the alleged comments of the Czech Geological Service, so that we could get both variants. On that point, I asked for the analysis of the multi-work and the costs incurred in the remediation of the slide, supporting walls and all the instability of the whole work, including the workstation and the risk assessment of the work, the quantification of the costs of remediation of the work in the area of potential slides and monitoring of the entire territory for a hundred years, that is the lifetime of the construction. I also received a promise from the Minister that I would get an overview of the list of those persons who participated in the construction and self-supervising of the construction, including geodetic focus, geological, hydrogeological and geotechnical survey. To conclude, I think that even the average educated and on average experienced surveillance of the construction had to know that if water flows into the area of the construction from the nearby quarry, and it had to see a stone extracted at the end of the slope, it must have been clear to him that something was wrong. And then it is not possible to describe as one single culprit the relevant quarry, but it is necessary to ask why the relevant people who were on the construction site and saw what was happening in the given section, that the waters were flowing into it, that there was a removed stone that overloaded the slope, so they should have intervened much earlier. That's from my point of view. I support the motion for a resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u9	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see anyone else. If so, I am ending the general debate. The Minister wants to take the final floor at this stage. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u10	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, I do not wish to extend the debate too much, because I said at the beginning that I had no problem with a sensible resolution and that a forensic audit should be carried out, but I was asked to comment on some things, so I would like to do so. First of all, I'd like to say one thing. Please, let's not make the D8 scarecrow for people, let's not say it's a highway that could be dangerous or dangerous. I want to assure you that for any construction that could potentially be called dangerous, I wouldn't dare let go of a single person. There's no such thing. This means that the dissemination of alarm messages from the Chamber of Deputies should not be a standard, and certainly not a standard in transport constructions. Second thing. You know, I know he's coming and he may already be in the run of the election campaign, but I would still like to say, let's not spread bad news at all about transport construction and construction in the Czech Republic, because his position and quality of what's being done here are not as bad as we're supposed to say, and all those reports about the most expensive and least-quality motorways in Europe are not true and do not belong in the usual dictionary of politicians as they should assess our economy. There's been a lot of rumors here. I want to say that the Ministry of Transport decided and published that opinion at the end of last year, although we had the opinion from the lawyers that we did not have to publish it. The evaluation is available. I had a feeling that in digital time, if it's available, it's okay. If it is accepted here that the Ministry is to give each Member a paper copy, then we will simply multiply them and hand them over to all of you if there is such a problem to download them from publicly known sources. On the other hand, I'd be a little surprised -- you know, I find it very strange when it's said to give an assessment in all versions. This seems a little similar to when a writer writes a book and does not give the resulting product on which everyone agrees, what is his best work, but has to give all versions so that the reader can make an idea of how the book developed and how the overall view developed. In terms of opinion, I have one thing to say here. Yes, there's an assessment of the University of Technology. He has a round stamp of the expert who was used in the prosecution. As far as the lawsuit goes, I'm going to comment on it in a minute, but it's just material that's part of the file. Of course, all parties have access to the file, which means both the plaintiff and the defendant. He can publish it - I don't know if it's necessary here - and I think the opinion is publicly known and it's clear, so we can discuss it. I've been informed that it's supposed to be an opinion ordered by a private person. I have to check it out. Now I haven't had a chance to check it out, but I doubt it would be an assessment that would order state organizations, both ŘSD and SŽDC. There's one thing I'd like to say. We never said the only culprit was the quarry as it fell. What is being sued today is, please, the objective responsibility of the quarry for the damage that might have occurred. This is something that the court has to judge. Let us not confuse that we call someone guilty or that the court is to assess objective liability from work. Just because objective operational responsibility is assessed doesn't mean that the quarry, for example, would do something on purpose or want to contribute to the fact that there's going to be a slide. [[18.50 hours]] The second thing I would like to say - and that is very often forgotten. In 2013, it was a natural disaster. There the Elbe climbed up to Pracovice and there was almost a meter of water, the water went from above, from below, it was everywhere, so it was an extraordinary situation and I would like it to be treated this way. Here it was said how long it took to pass the evaluation. Yes, we have to realize that at the time when the slope started in 2013, I think it was some time in June, then it was left for quite a long time, and when the analysis was done, so the analysis of the slope, all geologists said no gentlemen, you can start doing some analysis - which we had to compete with, by the way, it wasn't so that we could give it to someone out of the hand, but the competition could be announced only after the slope had recovered to be analysed. So tonight, just say it's been a long time and who knows why it's been like that and what's been going on... Well, she did a simple thing. It was just the first time that the slope was removed, when the slope had been removed, that the slope could have been analysed. Nothing else could have been done. Yes, there may have been two months in the process when things could have been done faster, but if we look at it objectively when we make all the effort and when the whole thing competed, the situation turned out the way it did. And as for the monitoring, of course, the monitoring is done and will be done, but let's not expect it to be on this slope that we're just going to debate every month about whether or not we're going to have this one or something. It's just that the highway leads downhill is true. As the workers of the Institute of Rock Mechanics of the Academy of Sciences have told us, there are many of those descending territories in the Czech Republic, many of these territories are led by the highway and it is nothing major. So please, let's not make a mosquito of a camel and try to look at the whole thing rationally. I want to say for myself that I don't have a problem with point 2 and I don't have a problem with point 4. The only problem with point 4 is the deadline. Because it is nice when the House decides to present the outcome of the audit in June, but given the scale of the company that will be able to carry out such an audit, we need to ask when they will be able to do it. I think then it's just a question of finding a firm in a potential audit competition that will be able to do so in time and in time. So much for me. Thank you for your attention, and that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u11	I thank you and ask the rapporteur if he wants to take the final floor at this stage. Looks like it. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u12	Thank you. I refuse that the term of office is coming up. Excuse me, but if two neighboring highway sections are expensive 3.5 times, it's not about any electoral populism, it's an objective fact. It's written in the SAO's report. Is there anyone here who doesn't believe the SAO report? I don't think so. And I've been asking for this for a long time. I even, when I was on the SFDI Executive Committee, asked for control of the operation. It was a weird twist, and it ended up kind of weirdly lost. After that, I was fired, so I couldn't insist that it be finished. So that's where very strange things happen. The state lost huge money by having to cut it out of funding from European funds. Why is there a word in forensics? How can anyone afford, Minister, how can they afford unfinished construction to sweep up or scrape down building journals? After all, there are longer responsibilities than just warranty periods for completed works. Don't be mad at me, it almost looks like the police should be on the O.R.S.D. If someone's doing this, let's not let anybody say there's no documents. That's why forensics. Let someone reconstruct the responsibility of who's responsible, who's violating the directive, let someone be responsible. I know that some case that's in court at the interstate rest stop turned out to be where the entire contract was actually lost. No one knew and the state would pay the way for some 35 miles of action. extra. So when is this mess going to end? Somebody tell me. Can the state really afford an organization like this? This is really shocking. So let's build a new one, and let's cancel that without a replacement, because this is really weird. About the other points. I don't know, when the minister... I didn't want to insist on the others, and some of them are Mr. Hovorka's colleagues, but don't be mad at me, perhaps the Minister should know if he's holding a press conference and how he's going to deal with the irresponsibleness of the quarry, so maybe he got to know what the basis is, who's processing it, what and how, the lawsuit for 1 billion. Crowns. That's not a small amount. That's a major lawsuit. And now he says he doesn't know who did it. I read here because I only have a piece of information... so publish everything at last. What's there to hide? The public has a right to know how its finances are handled. Now, if there is no response, then all I have is a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u13	Since you have completed your final word, I am opening up the debate in detail. I am registering your application and asking you to read the motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u14	So, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I suggest that each item be voted on separately. Point number one is going to sound - and I'm going to split it with my colleague Hovorka, if you don't mind. Point 1: "Asks the Minister for Transport to publish all processed analyses with the cause of the slide that took place on section 0805 of the D8 motorway in June 2013.' I'm asking my colleague Hovorka if she insists on completing the options. [[Mr. Caller off the microphone.]] Original and edited. I'll take that as a counterproposal. This means, first of all, we would vote on the counter-proposal, which means, the text would be: "The Minister of Transport asks for the publication of all the processed analyses of the causes of the slide, which took place on section 0805 of the D8 motorway in June 2013, to analyse the Academy of Sciences, the original version and the version corrected after the alleged comments of the Czech Geological Service. [[Result]] Date of January 2017'. My position is neutral.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u15	We will only proceed to the vote after all the motions for resolutions have been read.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u16	Okay, sorry. And then the original proposal will be: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Transport to publish all the processed analyses of the causes of the slide that took place on section 0805 of the D8 motorway in June 2013.' Item number 2 is long: "The Government requests an independent forensic audit of the construction of the 0805 motorway D8, which will include in particular the examination of the preparation of the construction, the quality of the project, the performance of the technical supervision of the building and the construction manager, the course of the construction and the events relating to the real findings on the construction, the legal audit of the contracts concluded, including additions, compliance with the public procurement law, compliance with the Czech Government resolution by the investor, analysis of the multi-work that has been carried out on the remediation of the slide of supporting walls and all the instability of the entire work, and estimation of the cost of remediation of the work in the area of potential slides and monitoring of the entire territory for tens of years. [[costs]] [[including workpiece stacade]] Multi-work must be documented including all documents, supporting documents, project documentation and documentation and written protocols on the approval of multi-workers of the Czech Republic, designer and TDI. [[survey, geodetic focus, analysis]] [[technical supervision of the investor]] Date without delay.' My colleague Hovorka has a little nuance - a hundred years. I've been saying it for decades, and that's how I would recommend it. Agreed? So there's only one suggestion. Point 3 is a proposal from Mr Hovorka: "The Government requests an overview of all natural and legal persons involved in the preparation, construction and self-supervising of the construction, including geodetic focus and geological, hydrological and technical surveys, including all legal services, monitoring and project services from 1993 until now, including individual costs incurred for these activities and services. [[Including staff]] [[current dates January 2017]] Namely state responsible persons of employees of ŘSD CR and their functions and positions since 1993 and what specific activity they have performed. Date of January 2017'. [[19.00 hours]] Then there is item number 4, which says: "The Government requests information on the audit results, the deadline June 2017." I'll make a note if the job isn't selected or extended in time, then the government would have put information here as to when it's gonna take. The deadline for June is for information to be submitted, there may be ongoing information and so on. That's why I'm leaving it here so this House knows what it's up to. Point 5 is a proposal from Mr Hovorka: "The Government requests the submission of all the costs incurred in bringing an action against Kamen Zbraslav, a. s., the owner of the quarry Dobkovička, including the costs of legal services, the composition of principal, the costs of drawing up expert opinions, including a list of all the expert opinions that have been supported for the ŘSD and SŽDC action in court. Date of January 2017'. Well, that's all the suggestions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u17	Thank you. I ask whether anyone else wants to speak in a detailed debate and, where appropriate, clarify, or give another motion for a resolution. I don't see anyone. If so, in that case, I conclude a detailed debate and ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor at this point? It's not like that. First, then, I will ask you, rapporteur, to inform us of the procedure for voting on individual resolutions and then to conduct us by individual votes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u18	So we have five points here. At the first point, it is a request for publication of all, is the counterproposal of my colleague Hovorka, which is the extension of my original proposal, which means the publication of all analyses. Mr Hovorka wants two more versions of the Academy of Sciences before the comments and probably final. So we would vote first on Mr Hovorka's proposal as a counterproposal, then on point one, on the original proposal. Then there would be a vote on item 2, a short-term forensic audit for everything. Point 3 is a proposal from a colleague of Hovorka concerning the overview of the people who were working on it and legal persons and responsibilities. Point 4 is my original proposal, which means asking the Government for information from the House on the audit results in June 2017. And point number 5 is the proposal of a colleague of the Hovorka. That's the question of lawsuit against the Stone of Zbraslav. So this is how we would vote and on each point separately
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u19	Thank you. Yes. I wonder if anyone has a proposal for an adjustment, a change, a procedure for voting? I don't see a suggestion like that. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees with the proposed voting procedure, so... I'm sorry, I'm registering the application for a check-out. In that case, I declare this vote misguided. First, I'm going to take you all out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the procedure proposal, as presented, to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 54. 118 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 117, against 1. The proposition of the procedure has been agreed. And I am going to ask you, rapporteur, to give individual points, to give an opinion on them, then the Minister, and then I will put it to a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u20	The first will be the counterproposal of my colleague Hovorka. "The Chamber of Deputies requests the Minister of Transport to publish all the processed analyses of the causes of the slide that took place on section 0805 of the D8 motorway in June 2013. To analyse the Academy of Sciences submit a version of the original and a version corrected after the alleged comments of the Czech Geological Service. [[Result]] Date of January 2017'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u21	Opinion? [[Rapporteur: Neutral.]] Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 55-order vote. 120 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 42, against 47. This proposal was rejected. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u22	Then there will be the original proposal. "First, the Chamber of Deputies asks the Minister of Transport to publish all the processed analyses of the causes of the slide that took place on section 0805 of the D8 motorway in June 2013.' Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u23	Mr. Secretary? [[Since they're already published, so disagreeable.]] Dissenting position. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 56. 120 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 80, against 31. This proposal was adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u24	Then, if you don't mind - if anyone insists, I'll read it again - but it's the article, short for forensics audit. Date immediately entered. Opinion positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u25	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 57-order vote. 120 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 116, against 1. This proposal was adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u26	Thank you. Then the proposal of my colleague Hovorka will be briefly an overview of all natural and legal persons, including employees who were in preparation, construction and so on. Date January 2017. A neutral opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u27	Minister's opinion? [[Negative.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 58. 120 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 9, against 52. This proposal has not been agreed with. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u28	Thank you. The next item will be: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government for information on the results of the audit. In June 2017. Opinion in favour.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u29	Mr. Secretary? [[Agreed.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 59. 120 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 117, against 1. This proposal has been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u30	The final point is a proposal from my colleague, Hovorka. "He's asking the government to submit the costs and other elements of the action. Date of January 2017'. My position is positive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-024-281.u31	Mr. Secretary? [[Negative.]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 60-order vote. 120 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 59, against 45. This proposal was rejected. I think we have dealt with all the motions for resolutions. I am merely stating that the first, second and fourth resolutions have been adopted. These motions for resolutions have been approved. Ladies and gentlemen, I am done discussing this point. Thank you. I'm interrupting our meeting until 9:00 a.m. tomorrow morning. Thank you, and I wish you the rest of the day.
