ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u1	66. Government bill amending Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members, as amended /German Press 1024/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, let me briefly mention the bill amending Act No. 361/2003 Coll., on the Service of Security Corps Members, as amended. The proposal is presented on the basis of the commitment contained in the programme statement of the Government of the Czech Republic and also in the coalition agreement, and is therefore one of the government's priorities. The approval of the proposal should contribute to the increased attractiveness of the service in the security forces, thereby strengthening their staff stability. The proper and effective functioning of security forces is one of the pillars of a democratic state. The aim of the proposal is, in particular, to make a systemic change in the area of the reimbursement of overtime for members of the security forces. At present, the member's service income is already fixed taking into account the overtime service, to the extent of 150 hours. The proposed amendment proposes to remove this and to remove the obligation to serve 150 hours a year without entitlement to leave or service income for overtime, with the exception of declared crisis situations. Thus, it clearly defines the circumstances under which overtime may be required for a member of the security forces. With this change, we will avoid the collisions that have been here in the past, we will avoid any litigation that may have taken place. This amendment also allows, for example, an accelerated service procedure for members who have proven themselves and have secondary education. It also introduces a recruitment allowance which will increase the competitiveness of the service in the labour market security forces, especially in exposed professions, such as information technology, law and others. It introduces an extra charge for the holiday service and also makes minor changes in the field of management in matters of service. I would like to emphasise, at the end of my introductory words, one crucial thing that this law has no ambition in any way to break into service. That means this law doesn't have the ambition to change, tax, anything else. For us, the service is a fundamental pillar of our service, and it must remain that way. Before we came here to the Chamber of Deputies, we acted very intensively within the coalition experts. The proposal that we bring here is balanced, it is coalicly approved, and I want to guarantee that I would not bring it here without there being a consensus on the area of service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u3	Thank you. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Stanislav Huml. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. I'll follow up on the Minister's words. We had representatives of both trade unions in the Police of the Czech Republic on the subcommittee for the Police of the Czech Republic. The proposal has been discussed with them, and they really have no comments whatsoever against it. It's even absolutely consistent and consistent. I'll try briefly to introduce the bill as a whole so that you all understand what goes. It regulates the new trial period of the newly adopted member. It then regulates the new rules for the termination of service during the probationary period. I'd say he's more specific. Of course, they're dealing with the foundation stone, and that's overtime service. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Constitutional Court, in several judgments unpaid or unpaid overtime work by police officers and firefighters, annulled and judicated that this was contrary to the Constitution. It adjusts the reward for the service on the days of rest and on the holiday. He's adjusting for a new holiday reduction. It deals with the extra leave and the extra charge for the holiday service. Basically, it brings it into line with the Labour Code, when the employer must first propose that a police officer or firefighter should be given leave of absence, and only if he doesn't run out of spare leave, or because it is not possible for a small number of police officers to give him leave of absence, so only in the second wave as if a surcharge is paid by law. He's adjusting the new recruitment fee. That's where it's really for discussion. It is from CZK 30,000 to CZK 150,000, and the amount is set by the Director of the Security Corps. The member is then obliged to remain in service for four years, and if he had finished earlier, he returns the alquacial part. It's fairly transparently modified. And in the final points from paragraph 27 until the end of the bill, in some way, the procedure for disciplinary matters and matters of service is regulated. The efficacy is proposed from 1 January 2018. Once again, I'm glad to confirm that he doesn't have a law or an amendment to the ambition to change the allowance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u5	Thank you, too. I am opening a debate to which I am registering two applications. First of all, Mr Ondráček will appear, and Mrs Černochová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, fellow Members, I am happy for the words that have been put forward both from the Minister and from the rapporteur that this law has no ambition to interfere with the contributions of security forces members, and I would like that information to be heard in the ears of the security forces, because after the panic that is now circulating among the members, it is probably necessary to get this information among the members. The law itself - the colleague mentioned that we have already talked about it at the subcommittee for the Police of the Czech Republic, the municipal police and private security services, where we had representatives of both the petitioners and representatives of the Police Presidium and representatives of trade unions. A colleague mentioned two, but it should be mentioned that there was also a representative of the trade union at the independent union association Prison Service. So representatives of two police organizations plus two security forces. Now I'd move on to the law as such. I've studied it, say, very thoroughly and there are some things I don't understand enough, and I'm sure I'll require an explanation in some negotiations. [[14.40 hours]] I would also like to mention the unfortunate, say, simultaneous practice. If we look at the points - it's hard to talk to the minister, if he doesn't listen to me. But I would like us to be able to talk about points 9 to 11, which refer to Section 22, the tender for the post of service. I agree with the procedure proposed, but at the same time I draw attention to the problem that is, and that the policeman can apply to the selection procedure if he meets the evaluation of at least very good results within the service. Unfortunately, it is quite often now that the heads of individual security forces evaluate their members only good grades of evaluation and thus make it impossible for them to sign up for a higher post because they are not members, and each leader must protect the number of people who are in the service at all, so this poor evaluation is taking place. The representatives of the trade unions that we discussed with on the subcommittee wanted the law to be amended in order to allow a police officer to enter the competition, who is only good at the evaluation. But that's not the way to go. I would like the Minister, on the way to the Police Presidium, to appeal that police officers be assessed objectively, not just for the need to keep them in a particular place. Paragraph 18 is already mentioned in Section 54, which abolishes the obligation to serve 150 hours a year free of charge. It is, of course, okay, with the fact that it is also stated that the total amount of overtime service must not exceed 10,5 hours in one week and can be repeated within 52 weeks of consecutive, that is, over a whole year. The number 150 passed out, but I don't know why she stayed in other parts of the law. I will mention right away when you look, Minister, to paragraph 25, which is Section 112 para. In the second paragraph, it is stated that a member is provided for a service income, taking into account, where appropriate, an overtime service of 150 hours per calendar year during a crisis period, supplementing only the "emergency period'. I don't know why the number 150 was left when no such number should be in the law anymore, because if we calculate the period of service that a member can perform under § 54 para. 2, that means the 10.5 hours a week times 52, so we're not going to get to any 150 hours, so it's not clear to me why in Section 112 para. 2 is the number 150 hours per year. The following is point 31, which provides a spare leave and a surcharge for the holiday service. The question is whether it would have to be paid after three months, or whether the Security Council must try to provide a three-month leave or whether the following calendar month should suffice, because the holiday is calculated, or additional sickness benefits, from the quarter. In order to avoid the fact that in the exposed months, for example, where the tourist season is, police officers serve tens of hours of overtime, and then when the cucumber season is, they get it to be chosen. In Section 125, which is paragraph 32, it is again mentioned that the member is entitled to an extra leave for each hour of overtime service. This does not apply to an overtime service of 150 hours per calendar year during a crisis period. There's that number 150 again. I don't see why. If there is a crisis, he can do more hours, because it depends on what service is needed. If there's a crisis, I can't imagine a police officer serving only 150 hours. Then no one's gonna keep us safe? That's the price, but here we have that section 54 paragraph again. Two, where they talk about the ten hours. [[a reaction to the question of a reminder from the diaper.]] I'm sure I'd be glad if we could discuss it. As the overtime surcharge is calculated - I understand that it is ideal for calculation when there is a basic tariff and then a personal charge or a so-called risk premium. Here is added an additional charge for the management, which makes me a little dizzy by the fact that this surcharge was added by someone who processed the law and apparently the surcharge for the management leads and expects to perform overtime on the holidays, and so wants to increase their average. The old, or let's say the law previously applied, if there were overtime hours, only from the personal surcharge and from the risk premium, plus the basic tariff. The premium for leadership was simply not there, and we even have written that the directors and representatives of the security forces are basically not doing overtime. And now the point itself, paragraph 34, § 135a, so much discussed recruitment allowance. Range 30 to 150,000. It is, of course, a good achievement, but we are just talking about it being provided selectively according to which head of the Security Council decides which place to write the recruitment allowance or subsequently provide it. It also describes the structure of how it will be paid, with which I do not have a single problem, with the fact that if a police officer fails or leaves the Security Service, he has to return this bonus. The length of time for a police officer to remain with the Security Service is four years. I would like to remind you, my fellow Members, or to say that in 2016 the police did, or virtually. recruited 1,621 police officers, but at the same time 1 309 of them left the service, which represents strengthening the Security Corps by only 312 police officers. However, if you look at the period of service when police officers leave, I mentioned that 35 percent left in 2016, i.e. one third of the police officers left even before they were entitled to a pension, that is, up to 15 years of service. And if you look in connection with the recruitment allowance, within four years of the service, that means, without waiting for it to expire, leaving last year, in 2016, 17 percent of the police officers, that means almost one fifth of the people that the police have recruited will leave until four years of service. After four years of service, between the fifth and ninth years, 13 percent of police officers leave. That's the state of 2016. If I look at the new statistical data, which are for 2017, then 24 percent of police officers left the service within four years of January of this year. [[14.50 hours]] Colleagues and colleagues, that's one quarter of those who come and leave at the same time. Within four years of duty, every fourth police officer recruited will pack up and go somewhere else to work. Why, we could talk about this for a long time or a long time. And the Minister knows that this is also for underestimating the appreciation of their work, the wage appreciation of their work. I'm so worried that the recruitment allowance wouldn't be paid to those police officers who are getting in, and those police officers wouldn't have left us after four years anyway, and in four years, if the recruitment allowance were, say, 100,000, which is about 25,000 a year, it would be 12 again, so it's some good 2,000 and some change a month. So they're going to add the 2,200 to the pitiful salary, they're going to take the recruitment allowance, and after four years, they're going to leave the police anyway, because, as I mentioned, in 2016, we lost 35 percent of the police officers by the 15th year of age (?). And now that I look at the data from this year, it's 29, 30, 36 percent - 36 percent, so even a percentage more than last year. How do we manage to recruit at the beginning of this year is the same - 115 police officers came, but 97 police officers, sorry, members - no, in this case police officers left. Recruiting for 2017, first month, plus 18 cops. And if we look at Prague, which has a long-term base, more police officers went there before they were recruited. So I see the recruitment contribution as a step, but I'm a little afraid it won't be enough that something else must come up, crucial, and that is a flat-rate increase in the salaries of all members of the security forces, as you promised, Mr Minister, and possibly. And the Prime Minister, from 1. 7. 2017, but today we know that your coalition partner is stuck with you. And I am very sorry that yesterday, as the Czech Social Democratic Party, you did not support me in this. We could have discussed this topic today. I take it this isn't such a pressing problem for you, because you don't really want to deal with it. I would also like to mention that the recruitment allowance will not only be provided by the police, or possibly by the police. security forces, because a recruitment allowance far ahead of you already provides, for example, the Municipal Police in Prague, which has a recruitment allowance for one officer of CZK 100,000, and it is received essentially by everyone who decides to work at the Municipal Police in Prague, and it is paid to him during the first two years. Other benefits that the private sector is able to offer, or, in this case, the city of Prague, the capital of Prague, I will not even talk about, because in all police indicators, it is like a cinderella. Finally, I will say that I will be very happy, and I dare say that the entire KSČM MEP will support this proposal at first reading, and I will be happy if we can discuss it at second reading on the committee, if any. on the committees, and some of the questions I have said here will be answered or better explained to me. I say for myself that I will also put forward an amendment, one amendment that will concern Section 164 of the Act, which is death and a contribution to the funeral of a member. At present, the Security Council is paying three times the salary for the death of a member of the service, which I do not consider to be a good or a good impulse, and I will therefore propose that, in the event of death related to the direct performance of the service, the amount of the death allowance should be, say, one annual salary, that is to say 12 times the monthly salary of the member of service. And let's remember here a fellow police officer who died at the end of last year after he wasn't sufficiently protected ballistically, and maybe if he had ballistic protection, he wouldn't have to die. And let us also remember the firefighter who died last week in fulfilling his promise to this state. So, Minister, I say yes for myself, the law is needed. I'm glad he finally made it. Unfortunately, you have given us a very short period of time to have a chance to discuss it well and to be sure that the law will be adopted in such a way that police officers and security forces feel better about it. I will be happy to discuss it, and I am prepared for such a discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u7	Thank you, too. Before I give another word, I'll read the apologies. Mrs Šánová apologizes today from 17:00 for reasons of work, today from 17.15 to the end of the negotiations for reasons of work she apologizes to Mrs Markéta Adamová and from today to 24. 2. on a business trip, Mr Michal Kučera apologizes. And now, please, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As has already been said here, the Government has submitted a proposal to Parliament of the Czech Republic for an amendment to the Act on the Service of Security Corps Members. The proposal has been proclaimed several times as an elimination of injustices, which occurred mainly as a result of the fact that members of the security forces, in particular the Police of the Czech Republic, are forced to serve 150 hours of overtime free of charge during the calendar year. At the same time, the proposal includes the establishment of a recruitment allowance, a supplement for the holiday service, the introduction of a probationary period on taking up duty and a number of other techniques that have accumulated over the years, and the Ministry of the Interior, as a gesturer of the relevant law, considered it appropriate to address them now. Members of the security forces - and I say, unfortunately - will not receive any more money after the adoption of this amendment, the destabilized police will certainly not become more attractive to the applicants, the social security of the members will again be slightly more endangered. And even though it doesn't bring anyone anything, there will be far more paperwork in the offices instead of overseeing the security situation in the streets. All of this must be clear to each insider immediately after the first reading of this government standard. Unfortunately, Mr Huml is wrong, through the Vice-President. In November 2001, the Constitutional Court rejected the proposal of a group of Members to repeal Rule 112 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. Articles 4 (1) point (a) and (b) of CRR 4 of Act 361 on the service of members and stated that the argument of the appellants on the inequality between individual members of the security forces according to the amount of overtime worked does not stand, and decided that in principle all members of the security forces have equal status before the law and inequality could occur only in specific cases, e.g. The same commander assigned two overtime officers diametrically differently in terms of the number of hours served. So please don't let us mess around with any announcements that the Constitutional Court has confirmed something. I didn't! The Constitutional Court did not find the anti-constitutional or second contested provisions of the law because, even in this case, the legislature did not act irrationally under the Constitutional Court and the Constitutional Court did not find the legislature's liking for it. With regard to the legislation on remuneration of members of the Security Councils - I am still quoting the Constitutional Court's finding in general - the Constitutional Court recalls that it is primarily for legislators and authorities of the power to propose and adopt, according to the situation and possibilities, such legislation as would enable the proper functioning of these components and their material security to be ensured. Which, unfortunately, is not happening and there is no bill proposal, by amending the law, you will not, Minister, fix it. [[15.00 hours]] You know, the government proposal, apart from the mistakes that my colleague Ondráček mentioned here, does not respect the established legislative rules at all, in relation to an inadequately processed explanatory statement. This is not true and is misleading in the impact on the state budget. The draft amendment introduces an obligation to pay overtime to security forces members up to 150 hours a year, unless the Security Board provides the member with a leave of absence within three calendar months of the overtime service or at an otherwise agreed time. According to the explanatory memorandum - let me quote: "The measure envisaged, according to the data provided by the security forces, an increase in the cost of the state budget of 210 million. koruna a year." But this is not a realistic estimate in the knowledge of the current state of affairs in the security forces. If so, where is the analysis that would confirm the figures? My previous speaker also spoke about the increase in the fare and how Minister Babiš stood up to it. It is not possible to say, Minister, that in the case of the Police of the Czech Republic, the impact on the state budget will be 88 million. 400 thousand. CZK, which is an estimate of overtime payment up to 150 hours a year. A more real number would perhaps be about 1 billion. Crowns. 150 hours is a coincidence as one working month a police officer. Thus, a more realistic impact on the state budget can be well calculated. The proposed average monthly salary for 2017, as I read in the budget, is CZK 35 393 in the approved budget. Well, yeah, I'm sure most of those who may be watching us call themselves golden eyes. If we add contributions to this, and we multiply the average monthly salary of 1,35 by CZK 47,781 per police officer. Currently, the number of police officers is around 40 thousand. Of course, they don't all serve at once. And so it serves at a given time, for example, half, about 20 thousand. This means that we are already around 1 billion. Crowns. Those are very simple merchant numbers. Then I don't know why your reason message is lying. The argument that police officers will primarily choose a spare leave will not stand. Because this can only be done if there is someone who can serve for them. But what if there's a base? And we know the base is. A colleague once again spoke of my hometown, the capital of Prague. Can anyone, Mr. Secretary, collect extra leave for overtime when there's no one to serve for such a cop? Of course not. And there will be a claim for overtime, which will be widely used in practice. But the budget in the explanatory memorandum doesn't cover the funds at all. And so far, we're just talking about paying overtime. But what about the proposed surcharges for holidays and days of peace? Then do you not find it quite odd to claim further in the explanatory memorandum that, once again, "the other proposed measures are budgetaryly neutral, including the introduction of the possibility of using the recruitment allowance and introducing a supplement to the holiday service, as the costs associated with them will be borne by the security forces from their own budget"? You know, I can think of one thing. Everyone's gonna do better, no one's gonna slave for free like they've done before, and yet it's not gonna cost a penny? Miracle or nonsense? Okay, if the police and other congregations are to bear their additional costs from their budgets, the question is how the budgets were designed. Whether they really counted on it and the individual security forces have enough funds for their members. It is not just a law that applies only to members of the Police of the Czech Republic. This concerns firefighters, customs officers, members of the Prison Service, the General Inspectorate of the Security Corps. Just to remind you, if memory doesn't deceive me, in the past, extras for Saturdays and Sundays and all public holidays and all other extras were canceled, and consequently there was an increase in salary jumping, which was about 30%. And now another very important thing for me. The Supreme Administrative Court, Minister, has responded with criticism to your proposal - and let me quote: The bill submitted does not correspond to the stated objectives at all. It does not remove the obligation to do overtime in the range of 150 hours, but only a time limit to this obligation. Thus, the obligation to do overtime continues, even without any restrictions. What is changing is a newly admitted entitlement to the overtime service except overtime service in the range of up to 150 hours in crisis situations. The Supreme Administrative Court calls for this discrepancy to be eliminated between the various documents of the present proposal and notes this as a fundamental point. How did you deal with this reminder of the Supreme Administrative Court, Minister? Thus, as this fundamental comment by the Supreme Administrative Court shows, the obligation to apply 150 hours of overtime correctly can already be applied, and that this is not the case, the fault of the functionaries of the security forces. It should be recalled that not only the Constitutional Court but also the Supreme Administrative Court found the legal regulation of the overtime obligation problematic itself. The application of this legislation by service officials has been repeatedly found to be problematic. Again, I quote from the Supreme Administrative Court's decision, I'm not making it up. According to the Supreme Administrative Court, only political mimicry is the abolition of the obligation at the same time. It is therefore entirely a matter for the petitioner as the central administrative body - you, Mr Minister, whose competence falls within coordination in the field of service of members of the public security forces and its proper legislation - whether to ensure the proper application of existing legislation in accordance with the rights of the security forces, or to decide to change it. Even according to the argument put forward in the explanatory memorandum, the reasons for the proposed solution were political rather than legal. - This is literally written by the Supreme Administrative Court. The government's proposal for an amendment to the Staff Service Act is absolutely unsystemic and will lead to even deeper destabilisation of police and other congregations. We must not ignore the fact that the service law applies, as I said, to firefighters, prison service, customs officers, GIBS. Nor are there satisfactory explanation of the differences between the various security forces. For example, firefighter, let me use the word wet that goes into action, works 24-hour shifts, and has 240 hours in a month. But a police officer 37.5 hours a week. For comparison, a soldier has 40 hours a week. What about prison services and customs? Unfortunately, the other ministers aren't here. They left you alone, Minister Chovanč. I would really like to know how Defense Minister Stropnický will proceed in the case of professional soldiers. I mean, it's exactly the same there. So, once again, there's gonna be differences between security and armed forces? Can you please ask Minister Stropnický to come and answer these questions for us? Is he planning something similar for professional soldiers? So that, again, someone here does not say and object to the Constitutional Court that there is another assessment of the work of people who care about our defence and security. You know, the recruitment allowance itself is problematic - my previous speaker once again spoke of it - which is to be given a new member after four years of service, when they serve for a fixed period. Remarkable is that no one ever addresses the question of how to stabilize and motivate already trained and serving police members who then logically go elsewhere and are disgusted by the fact that politicians are always promising them something and running away. [[15.10 hours]] Wouldn't it be more beneficial, Minister, to pay a recruitment allowance or any other contribution to someone we know is trained, trained, has a service for an indefinite period of time, has he done something in the police department and will he be trained for the next generation? Isn't it a waste of money that you populistly put funds into recruitment and can't appreciate and value those who serve here and put their lives on our streets every day? You know, I'm worried that there's a risk of abuse of recruitment contributions, when a new member is trained, gets a recruitment allowance, and after four years he goes to another security or armed corps. It is already happening today that young men and women able to do this work are being dragged over by individual folders. Once again, I will repeat what I say: I would consider it beneficial if the relevant ministers, under which armed and security forces belong, agreed on a single database, so that simply someone who does not meet the conditions for being a professional soldier, but can, for example, be a customs officer or a member of the Prison Service, so that the person knows about it and does not have to report to ten competitions. The recruitment allowance is supposed to lead to greater attractiveness of police work. We can really laugh about that. The Minister has been told that the police need IT experts, lawyers, and that is what the recruitment allowance is supposed to do. Where is greater attractiveness for police officers serving 5, 6, 7, 10 years or more? How will the service be more attractive to other police members if it depends on the decision of the Regional Director or the Director of the Police Service whether he will make a contribution from his own budget? Are the directors going to take money from other members of personal evaluation or from rewards to those already serving police officers, at the expense of those new, untrained, untrained, untrained, inexperienced? Do not tell us here, Minister, that your proposed change will not affect the state budget and the officers already serving and the overall stabilisation of the corps! When those who serve today read the bill, they'll leave the choir! Get a grip! The draft amendment is therefore, in contrast to expectations and first sights and media appearances against members of the security forces and does not lead not only to better evaluation and overall status in security forces, but also some security forces can destabilize even more than the current situation. I cannot get rid of the feeling that in certain matters the leadership of police forces has agreed with a government that promises an easy but dysfunctional solution, because this government offers the way "we will add to everything and it will not happen, it will not touch anyone." But that's a big mistake and pre-election populism. Where have you been, Minister, all through your mandate, three years, waiting a few months before the election to quickly push through a completely unconceptionable, unsolvable novel? I am in favour of stabilizing the police and improving the conditions of duty. But let's face it, it's definitely worth something, not enough. As a better way, I see a stabilization allowance for those who will be with the police for a certain period of time, not as a recruitment allowance, when it is the time when the new police officer is in the congregation for a certain period of time, places of service, and there it will make sense. [[right?]] I therefore propose that the bill be returned to the petitioner for revision, and I tell you that we are prepared to support the amendment to the Act on the Service of Members of the Security Corps, but the amendment that will bring something positive to these members. Not a novel that will make their situation worse.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u9	Thank you. Another duly registered member is Mr. Štětina. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u10	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether I have too complicated or too simple to answer what we have heard here, on the one hand, from the Minister, from the rapporteur and from the two previous speakers. I don't think I'm gonna talk for that long, much less briefly. I think I suggested a few things about who wanted to know about it, so he read what it was about when I was discussing the activities of the commission of inquiry. But that's over, I'm not going back to that. I am glad that there is an amendment to the law that is needed. I am truly in favour of all the honest police members, who are a vast majority, 99.9 percent, who deserve to be adequately paid for their work, for everything they do. I mean, not 150 hours to give for nothing and not have it paid for. Of course, it is not only my opinion that I drew from the air, but I have been discussing with police officers who were in the service and, in particular, left after 2008, 2009 or were taken away. Of course, the number of police members - and in this, I think, all agreed - is still declining, although there are some measures that could bring about an increase in the number of members. But I think we've heard it from two sides here, so I'm not gonna comment on that. But I'm going to say one crucial thing. This is Title II - Social allowance. I am convinced that every member of the Police of the Czech Republic or even armed corps deserves a proper allowance. When I compare how members are paid, who leave for various reasons, and of course those who are in the service and are not in the management functions, it is not a large amount. But there are known cases, and I've already said that we have cases where a former high-ranking member goes into political office and has 62,000, another member has 70,000, which, of course, are untaxed, but a normal regular member gets to that amount in two, three months, and it only has one. Whereas he who has such a service has it all the time. I will put forward an amendment in which I will propose that the debts be covered, which means that we cannot pay the sums I have mentioned here to the chosen ones. This means that the amount will be, and we must, of course, in some way put it in the relation to minimum wage or average wage, etc., but in my estimation, this amount should not exceed 40,000. So that's something I'm interested in and I'd like to discuss. And I don't want to piss off the Minister. If he doesn't agree, of course we can discuss it. But it is really immoral for us to give such great benefits to some of the chosen ones. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see an application. If so, I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor. The plaintiff, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u12	Many have been said by our esteemed colleagues. I don't know if I'm gonna remember all the questions that came up here. On the question of the stabilization allowance or the recruitment allowance - I don't know if my colleague Černochová has read it, but it says in the law that it pays after half a year, and if the police officer serves four years, she doesn't have to return anything. But it pays after six months. Right away, the seventh month's recruitment allowance is paid. [[15.20 hours]] I don't know how to bring people to the police without getting some bonus at the beginning. And if you go through those counties today, the extremely low starting salaries in the police are the reason people don't come to us and why they're leaving. The road for us is that this stabilization recruitment contribution could be made. The police president decides how and where it will be used, so he can model the issue by region, where we are called. The shoe's pushing. In other questions, why it took so long - the debate around this law lasted maybe eight months. And in the beginning, I said one crucial thing: If the coalition doesn't agree that this law doesn't affect the bailout, then I'm not going to bring the law. We have been in this situation, and it is a great pity that Mrs Černochová, through Mr President, did not convene such extraordinary press conferences and did not have such intense communication at a time when right-wing coalitions gave the police to play, for example, Minister John. By the time the cops were 37,000. By the time we had two police presidents. By the time you took away the police, the firefighters, and the other congregations, 10 percent of your wages, and you brought a lot of policemen into existential trouble. That was when you were supposed to perform, my colleague through the President, and hit the door and say: This is not the way. The police were really destabilized back then. Police today are approaching 40,000 police officers. We managed to return the 10 percent you took from them, and a little bit more. I'm not saying I'm happy with the situation, and that's why we've proposed since 1. 7. a flat-rate salary increase of 10 percent for police officers and other security forces, and we will wage a battle with Minister Babiš. We have a meeting on 28 February on this subject, and I think that this measure should be implemented. Of course, there is one big problem that other costs are for a police officer in Prague or for his life, other costs are for a police officer in North Moravia in relation to housing and other costs associated with it. We're gonna have to look for a match, and we're gonna have to look for some kind of tool for the future to deal with. We just didn't find him in the coalition debate. We did not find a functional model that would take into account whether a police officer serves in Prague or whether he serves in Ostrava or Zlinsko. As far as Mr Ondráček is concerned, through Mr President, I am very surprised that during the debate that took place across the coalition, the trade unions were led by representatives of the security forces, a number of experts led to the fact that there was no proposal to increase precisely the amount for the death of a police officer or a member of another security force in the service. Personally, I think this is where we should be on the way...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u13	I understand, Minister. I'm gonna ask you to keep it down, and in case you have a need to deal with some issues, I'm gonna ask you to go to the lobby and deal with them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u14	...that we should be on our way here the same way as in the army. I will personally propose that a police officer, a firefighter and a member of the Security Corps and his family, if this person dies in the service, receive the same compensation for the family as my army, which is 20 times the salary. I don't think there's any distinction between the death of a soldier, a policeman, a fireman or any other member. That life, when that man loses him in the service of the state, should be of the same value to the state and to his family in particular. That is, this amendment I am calling on, with this I will come up with. In the debate that went on for a really long time, the request did not come up. And I have to say, I was quite surprised. And I thank my colleague Ondráček for bringing this up. Of course, honourable Members, we are prepared to discuss in detail the various comments in the Committees' discussion, as always. And once again to Mrs Černochová, through you, Mr President. The objection, I guess it was the Supreme Administrative Court, when we explained it to them, they pulled it off. They got the impression of the law, I don't know how they read it, that we're de facto canceling, absolutely canceling overtime. But that's not true. We merely specify the conditions under which exactly the police officer, firefighter and member of other congregations is obliged to suffer 150 hours in favour of the state free of charge. If it's 151, she'll get paid. As far as the costs are concerned, here we are based on the calculations of individual congregations. And I have to say, we've been giving it back a couple of times to redeploy them. And this amount, which is in the explanatory memorandum, is based on their estimate. I don't know how to make that estimate except that the directors of these congregations will make a qualified estimate by the number, by the status of the members, by the knowledge of the matter. I can't. We can discuss this, we can provide you with a more detailed analysis, a more detailed calculation in the committee debate. But I say again, it's derived from individual congregations and their numbers. I don't know if I answered all the questions here, there were a lot of them. Once again, we are ready to debate this in detail in the committees. But I completely refuse that this law would not help the members, that is simply not true! Whoever wants to see it sees it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u15	Thank you. Now, the rapporteur's final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u16	Okay, good afternoon again. I'd just like to sum up how the debate went. Three Members spoke, Mr Ondráček, Mrs Černochová and colleague Štětina. A colleague of Ondráček. I also want to thank him for reminding him that the novel did not work out and could and should have dealt with the families of the fallen. Personally, I think that if a member or a firefighter died on duty, his family, especially when he has children, should be richly secured for the rest of his life. Especially children. So I also welcomed the fact that the Interior Minister has just said that he will fix it and Zdeněk Ondráček will receive legislative support. To my colleague Černochová, I remind the President that there has been a motion for a re-evaluation, so that this is not forgotten. And I just wanted to respond to the fact that it's not actually gonna bring anything to the cops, and it's gonna cost a billion dollars at the same time. That's a contradiction. Nothing more, nothing less. It's not gonna bring anything to the cops, but it's gonna cost the state budget a billion. You have to choose. Either it's gonna cost something, and of course it's gonna reach the cops, or it's not gonna cost anything, and then the cops won't get anything out of it. Do we understand each other? I think the populism here sounded more like your mouth. And a colleague of Štětin, a retainer's contribution. I agree that the amount of some service is really immoral, 50, 60 or more thousand. We talked about this on the Sub-Committee for the Police. Personally, we don't want to interfere. If you submit an amendment, we will make some comments on it. That's all I'm saying, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u17	For the record, Mr rapporteur, you said there was a motion to return?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u18	Yes. In the course of the debate, my colleague, Černochová, made a motion for a re-evaluation, and this is how I noted it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u19	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u20	Thank you for the floor. The Minister is very often based on the fact that he is ready to communicate face to face, that he is not avoiding difficult debate. Unfortunately, he did it today. And you didn't answer my colleague until the final word, and he doesn't have a chance to respond. Minister, I would like to call on you to come to the microphone one more time, open the debate and listen to the opinion of a colleague who is responsible for this bill. For the rapporteur. If anyone has an opinion, don't say it's populism. Because unlike you, I don't think it's automatically certain that an increase in spending is going to go all the way to those cops. I'm not saying it doesn't. Just the absolute belief that it's automatically certain, I don't have it. And it's not just about this resort, if we understand each other. But it's my general point that it's not automatically certain. Well, Minister, if you'd considered it appropriate that you're not afraid of it...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u21	Through me, if I may.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u22	No, Mr Vice-President, I can address the Minister directly!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u23	You can address the Minister directly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u24	If you want to, Minister - through the Vice-President, it doesn't make a problem for me - I'm asking you politely. There's nothing else I can do right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u25	Okay. The Minister is about to appear. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u26	That is what the Minister really calls himself directly, Mr Stanjura indirectly. So, through Mr President, I will be very happy to continue this debate, because I think we need to get these things settled. We're obviously gonna be here a long time, but that's what the House is for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u27	Thank you for opening the debate. And now, Mrs Černochová will perform. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Thank you, Minister, for opening the debate. You know, maybe this discussion wouldn't be that long if your resort acted the same way as your predecessors at the Ministry of the Interior, i.e. that would be a service law, virtually. The law on the service of members of the security forces was considered a standard to be the highest possible political consensus. I guess I don't need to remind you how long the service bill was discussed, what legisvakance was there, before it even applied in this version. You made the job easier for yourself. You've only discussed this with your government MPs. Apparently, the opposition is not worthy of you talking to her about this standard, which is a shame to me. And I don't think it's standard of you, either, because I think you're a person who can communicate these things. But here, I don't know why you left us out of these debates. So I'd like to raise my questions to some committee of experts who would deal with this issue. About what Mr Huml said here through the Vice-President. Mr Huml, it is your explanatory report that speaks of a very different amount than that billion. I've been doing the math here, and I've made it very clear. I guess you didn't listen to me. Minister, I also agree with you that Mr. Former Interior Minister John has destabilized the police of the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, I can say that as a fact. There's nothing I can do about it. And I think that you know very well and that some colleagues know that I have played against him very often at all possible levels and that I have resented the things that you have mentioned here. You mentioned here that I didn't understand the stabilization allowance, that it would be paid after six months, for those four years. I understood that very well. Mr. Secretary, do you want a police force where police officers will serve for only four years? I didn't. I would like those people to stay here and to be honored by those who have served here for some time and have been able to do something. Give them the basics. Don't worry about it with a stabilizer. Raise the tariffs, let them really be competitive on the labour market. Find out what the minimum wage in the Czech Republic is, what the minimum wage in individual regions is. From this, you can derive the funds that these people deservedly receive. With the comparison between the security forces and the soldiers and those amendments, as you mentioned here. I'm happy to participate in them because I know of a problem that bothers police officers. It's a problem for the URNA police, the Rapid Forces, who, as you know, are deployed abroad, whether it's the embassy security guard or the diplomats' escort, the ambassadors' escort. And unfortunately, these members are going abroad to go on a business trip. Yes, you can hear me well. Cops who face every day in Afghanistan, Iraq, other countries with possible conflicts, so there - i.e. they have ballistic protection - I must defend the Minister, but he goes on a business trip there. So what's in it for you? Same as me, I guess. When they go there on a business trip, they don't have a quicker credit for debts, they have much lower funds. I would like to ask you, in this way, to compare the urn's claims with the wages of professional soldiers who go on foreign operations, because there really is no difference in their deployment. They face the same problems, they can face the same attacks, and they're putting their lives on the line as soldiers. So I'm asking for this very much, and I'm adding, if you're gonna stand for me, to some team on an amendment that should compare some things to police officers as they are now being done by professional soldiers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u29	Thank you, too. Before I give another word, I'll read the apologies. Today from 15.30 and tomorrow for personal reasons, Mr Adam Rykala apologizes for the whole day, and from 15 to 16 o'clock for personal reasons, Mrs Kovářová apologizes today, and today from 16 o'clock to the end of the meeting for work reasons, Mr Pavel Šrámek apologises. Mr Ondráček, now duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, fellow Members, Mr President, by your way to Mrs Černochová. They don't just go abroad on business trips. They're all going on a business trip there. Even colleagues who now strengthen the security of the Schengen area and work in Greece, Slovenia, and I don't know where everywhere, in Hungary, they all go in the same way for two or three months, and are still looking to see if they've gotten a meal from someone so that they can take out their lunch bonus or the diet per day. So the problems are and we know about them. I'm bohužel so. And here I wouldn't say it's a problem for the Minister himself, it's a problem for the Police Presidium itself. But, of course, the Minister can deal with this, because it's really embarrassing, if you take what danger people, even from the foreign police, or those who are now going to help these areas, can face. And they are various diseases, and even the aggressiveness of people who enter the Schengen area, they are there. And the service abroad is not adequately paid to those members, just in comparison with what you are saying, how they are paid and what logistical security is provided by soldiers who carry out their military duties in foreign missions. So that's just to complete what you said, my colleague. And I'd like to go back to the minister's office to explain why I've never discussed the death and funeral allowance of a member before. I'm a little sorry that the material was discussed with union representatives, but none of the two union unions came up with this. And I'm kind of asking how union representatives defend the rights of their members when they don't come up with this basically simple thing themselves. I looked into it as part of the preparations for today's meeting this weekend, when I reread the entire law on the service of members of the security forces and compared what would actually change, and I went to the section after the section. And I got to that section 164, where I was struck by the lack of payment of death. When I saw the triple, I considered - and I confess, I don't know how it is with the Army of the Czech Republic - how much you can take. I originally said six months because there are three at the moment. Then I thought to myself, six months on average salary of 25,000, that's very little, even according to the Civil Code, it was once 200. So I said that, that's not enough, I have to get above 200, more like 250. So I said ten. Then I thought I'd round it up to the twelve as one calendar year. I'm glad you're saying the army's 20. I have the proposal, and I've already given it to you, Minister, through your colleagues here in the House, so he's basically ready. I'm ready to discuss him. We will replace the twelve with the twenty quite quickly and add only the justification, which will be quite simple, and we will discuss the proposal in the Security Committee, if any. in the legal committee, where I assume that this material will also be discussed. I'll be glad if this thing gets there. And the other things that are. It is true that I have not even been familiar with this material as Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Police, and I would probably confirm what my colleague says that we do not have room for opposition. But I knew about this material because I'm in close contact with the trade unions, and I've been getting that material through the union. So I saw him, the whole process, which is why I was able to repair the Prime Minister here last time, who was still living in the old version, who was talking in her conclusion about taking effect. The 7th of this year, when the last version that entered the government is up to 1. 1. 2018. [[15.40 hours]] So I am ready to discuss these issues and those topics that we would like to discuss, and it does not matter if it is the opposition, the coalition, because the security of the citizens of the Czech Republic should not be coalition or opposition, but should be legislative. And there are, I think, enough of us who are dealing with this issue. I have already offered several times a subcommittee for the police, where we can act closed, without the presence, we can so-called barking, and we can draw conclusions, whether they are members of the security forces, whether it be the law on the Police of the Czech Republic, the law on the municipal police, where I once again mentioned one of the nonsense which the Security Committee has managed to approve. And what we talked about, Minister, and then you mentioned it publicly, i.e. creating some active backups for individual security forces, that is another topic I would like to see if you could create a working group where every political entity would have some representation, and let's talk about it. Let's talk about this now, let's talk about it by the end of the term, let's talk about it if we want something like this and how we can justify it to citizens, why we think that security forces should have active backups like my Army of the Czech Republic. So there would be a lot of topics, I could have a long discussion here, but it's not the point. I am glad that, despite the pain of birth, this material is here, unlike Mrs Černochová, I think that we are able, if we want and will on both sides, to discuss this material on the committees, or possibly. subcommittees, and to get something to happen. So thank you for your attention, and I'm willing to give you the material, my amendment, which I've already announced in advance, once again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u31	Thank you, too. It is therefore now Mrs Černochová, who has been duly applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u32	Thank you. I just thank my colleague for adding a circle of cops who go on business trips. Indeed, I have information that on these - in quotation marks - service trips, when they work within Frontex, they must buy food and equipment slowly, which is absolutely absurd. And I am sorry that, in the security situation in which Europe is located, this is not the Minister's priority to address these issues in order to address these comparisons, which, I think, are fair and should work like this. That, by the way, was why I suggested and suggested that we go back to processing. It is not that we do not want to support, as I said, any form of amendment to the Service Act or the Service Act of the Security Corps members, but, as I say, there is nothing positive in this form. So I would really like to, even after some agreement across the political spectrum, if it goes back to the government to redo, the government will take the things that we talked about here with our colleague Ondráček, so let's agree on some 90-year-old regime to make it happen. It's not about any of us wanting to block a hearing. I just really feel what I am - not just me, but you who have listened to me, that there are a number of things that are wrong and, on the other hand, there are things that should be there. So I don't consider the law to be of any quality. [[Very busy in the hall.]] And if I lighten it up a little bit, if you're going to handle selectively individual units in the police department, who should have some risk or other extras, I'd be very much in favour of putting in a risk premium for members of the protection service. One, for having to take care of government officials, and one, for having to listen to us here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u33	Thank you. I don't see anyone else. The Minister is enrolled in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u34	So I'd take the final word, and my right-wing colleagues were telling me to hold the debate, so I'm going to comment on the debate to speed things up. You know, when there's a young person here today, a man or a woman who decides whether to serve the state or for example. in the next Germany to work for some money, so it is for this supplement, an incentive, for at least a small comparison of the starting conditions. Of course, I have no ambition for these people to serve there for only four years, but I firmly believe that most of them, if they stay there for four years, will remain with the police. This is just about giving these people a lousy start-up pay. A salary which is currently not competitive. And he's not even competitive with a warehouse guy in a supermarket.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u35	I'll ask you, colleagues, both in the left side of the hall and in the right side of the hall, to keep it down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u36	That is, this is not about, my colleague, through the President, having police officers and firemen for four years. This is to prevent them from even deciding to serve the state by making such low money. In addition, I say again and again remind you that I am ready to have a debate and a duel with my colleague Babiš about increasing those tariffs by 10 percent. We're having this debate, I think it's legitimate, and I think it needs to be drawn to some conclusion, and that we need to be clear if we're going that way, and if we're not, then why. If the state is in such excellent economic condition, security is one of the priorities and for me it is a priority to keep these people there. Why didn't we discuss this more widely? We discussed this across the security forces, we discussed it with trade unions and all the stakeholders involved. I, honourable Member, needed one essential thing. The basic thing... Roman, is that necessary?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u37	Minister, I beg you, do not order the room, although I understand that they are your party colleagues. All the more I assume they'll respect it when you talk. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u38	Thank you. I will do better, Mr President. That means we need to make it clear that we need those security forces in some condition. And that condition means that people are well paid, well honored, and that bonus service is the one that comes after 15 years. Always in the past, when a change in the service law was debated, my dear colleague, the right either came up with the fact that she was taxed or she began to debate whether or not they were supposed to be retired. It always slipped in there. And the police, firefighters and other congregations are very sensitive to this debate. And I'm not gonna let the Glee Club get distracted by having another debate here about whether or not they should be retired. I said from the very beginning that if I didn't find a consensus in the coalition, in a coalition that had enough votes to change that law, I wouldn't just come here with it. That's the police, the fire department works so-called. Whispering. I've thrown her out about 20 times, and I've always said, "Women are untouchable to us." For this simple reason, the discussion went this way and this way. During the time of Minister Kalousek, you have taxed your debts, thanks to Mr Huml's proposal, we have removed it. And I want to thank you for voting in favour of this, too, because here in the Chamber of Deputies, this proposal has gained a large majority. And I refuse to debate whether or not they're supposed to be part of the security forces. Of course they do. And today's average income isn't 60 or 50 grand, but it's 13. And they've been here since Marie Terezie. It's not an invention of 20, 30, 40 years old. This is a long-term stabilization supplement for people who serve the state and who make a sacrifice to the state by serving it and working for it. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u39	Thank you. Mrs Černochová, duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u40	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please don't push me into saying I'm talking about bailouts. I am even in the context that the Civil Democratic Party would propose their taxation, their reduction, not talk. And we're not going to do anything like that. You know, you mentioned here Minister Kalousek as the Minister of Finance, who suggested temporary taxation. The transitional taxation was during the crisis. Your economic forecasts of the Czech Republic were such that you proposed a dedication, respectively. non-taxation was served two years ago, not until now, because the economic boom occurred in 2014. So, for two years, cops and other security forces have been free of charge. About what was said here. Yes, I'm in favour of trying to get people into the choir. But, Minister, you know that the next neurological point in your department is that you may accept these people, but that you won't dress them, that you won't train them, that you won't give them anything, that they won't actually be able to walk the streets in adequate equipment. My previous speaker, Mr. Ondráček, mentioned it here too. Cops are just dying here because they don't have enough ballistic protection. You're having another lawsuit with some company that's supposed to supply you with vests as ballistic protection. What are these people gonna walk in? Yes, I don't want this debate to turn out to be here to discuss how the police are equipped or not equipped under your command. And you've had a lot of strong statements in this parliamentary term about how you're gonna equip the police. So maybe let's save the big talk and start doing something.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u41	Thank you. The Minister is now duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u42	Madam, I have been to those police officers in Macedonia, Serbia and other countries. I have to say, I've seen excellent people there who like their jobs and who were happy to be on that mission. There's a stack of cops and police officers going out on these foreign missions, and there's more cops and police officers reporting for every mission than the police need. If it was in the state you're talking about, I don't expect these people to go. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I must say that the service of these people in Macedonia, Serbia, and other countries is doing a huge service to the Czech Republic. And I believe it is the best representation of the Czech Republic in years and years. As the Izraelec remember Czech planes -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u43	I'm sorry, Minister, but once again, I have to ask for silence in the left side of the hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u44	As Macedonia recalls the Czech aid at the time of the earthquake, as well as in five in ten years, they will simply remember the help of Czech police officers in these countries. And I must say that Czech police officers and Czech police officers are evaluated there at most of all. Top of all! Don't be mad at me if you look at the budgets of the Home Office that go to the police equipment, whether they're cars, uniforms, other things, compare those numbers from when you were in charge. I think the numbers are substantial, but they're considerably higher. You shouldn't have taken that ten percent off the cops in your life. And you were never supposed to tax your debts. There was no state around us, and there was a crisis everywhere. You made a strategic mistake like the right-wing government, and we're fixing it for you. I don't want to have this debate in this way. I didn't start it. But don't be mad at me, your tape can't stay unanswered. The police are currently in much better shape than they were. And to keep her in some condition and comfort, that's what this law does, even if you don't like it and you don't have to like it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u45	Thank you. Madame, I have registered you, but I had to register Mr Ondráček, who applied before you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u46	Thank you. You see, there are basically three of us here who are discussing the subject. Thank you for listening to us carefully, because you're interested. I'd like to tell the minister and colleague, come on, let's try to end this, because now that you start arguing about who you've done more or less for the police, it doesn't really matter. Let's go ahead and see what we can do for the police now and then, because you can blame each other. And I could sew into both of you, because I would find something on everyone, both ODS and TOP, and social democracy that I could blame you for in relation to the security forces. [[Big noise in the hall.]] But let's put an end to this and say that we want to work on it, that the Minister will be ready to do this, unless the motion of a fellow Member passes, sorry, to redo it, because time is running very quickly, and our days in this Chamber of Deputies are almost numbered and members should have some certainty. So let's go. I have personally sent it to you and to the Minister, my colleague through the President, and I have written a personal letter to the Minister, where I propose to him a way to increase the salaries of members of the Security Corps. It's got -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u47	I'm sorry to enter into your speech, but, Minister, you promised not to be angry, and you're interrupting and talking. [[Minister Chovanec is standing in an alley and discussing with several MPs from the ČSSD.]] I beg you, come sit on the table of the petitioner and listen to what the MP has to say. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u48	Minister, I didn't complain, I wouldn't scream it. So I suggested a certain solution. We just have to do it, and now from the very right, that means from the TOP 09 to the left, to my colleagues from the KSČM - let's stop thinking about who we wear, because there's only one safety. And it is either good or bad and concerns everyone without distinction of party jurisdiction, it concerns all citizens of the Czech Republic. So let's forget about our party membership for a while, let's sit down at that table, let's "fight" calmly, but let's create something to benefit members of the security forces and the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u49	Thank you. Are you reporting with a point of fact, Madame? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u50	I don't want to stall anymore either. You know, what a great condition the Police of the Czech Republic is, we saw last year when there was a debate about merging forces, where there were sentences about how many police officers were going to go where. Today we learned from the newspaper how many police officers went to see Mr. Babiš at customs. So only the minister gave me the tape, so I had to dunk. And you know, Minister, I may apologize to you, you may be here today as my victim, because it's always the way that when Defense Minister Stropnický is here, he feels that I really don't like him, which isn't true, and that even though I'm doing these two resorts, it's his only pulse. It's not true. And if he was sitting here tonight, maybe he'd be happy that we're running this argument together. And it might even calm you down a little bit in your awesome government coalition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u51	The Minister shall report properly to the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u52	I would like to say, through Mr President, that I do not feel like a victim. This debate is really uplifting. I would say only about two figures, my colleague. The Czech Republic is the sixth safest country in the world. That's not a nice Home Office analysis, please. Moreover, crime in this country has dropped by more than 40 percent over the term of the government's mandate. And it's thanks to an improved economic situation, it's because most criminals who have been released to the amnesty of Václav Klaus have been caught and closed. But, of course, it is also thanks to the excellent work of the Police of the Czech Republic and the Security Corps as such.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u53	Thank you. Mrs Černochová, duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u54	I'd like to say amen, but I won't. You know, Minister, that you mention things here that you know that the Civil Democratic Party could not decide that the amnesty was therefore under the authority of the President of the Republic, you know very well how it was then. And I agree with you that it should have been done differently. But to remind you of this place... Don't be mad at me, but I don't think it's entirely fair. The fact that the Czech Republic is the sixth safest country is not your fault. That's the credit of your predecessors, because the fact that he's the sixth country is long-term, it's not now that you've appeared at the Ministry of the Interior, and suddenly we've become the safest state, or the sixth safest state. It's really not like that. [[16.00 hours]] So please, let's have a little respect for the cops, because really strong statements to their address, when you promised them everything, and you promised them long weapons, equipment, remember that. I don't want to mention Uherský Brod here, I don't want to quote your statements here, but maybe sometime and maybe at a coffee buffet with my colleague Ondráček, we can tell you, and I'll get the articles out of what you promised them at the time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u55	Thank you. Mr Ondráček's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u56	That'll only be three seconds. A colleague of mine, Černochová, who talks about transfers. So two people left NCOZ, the new unit, in January, two people quit their service, and three people went to another security force. Five people in total this month. As far as your assignment is concerned, the capital city of Prague, ended the service of 11 police officers, 3 went to another security corps and 1 left in a probationary period, i.e., a total of 18 police officers left the police only in one month of January. m. Prague. Just a note.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u57	Thank you. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. The Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec reports with priority rights. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u58	We have exhausted the President as well. My colleague, I am not entirely sure, but I am sure that Mr Benda, through Mr President, or Mr President, will remember that the amnesty is co-signed by the Prime Minister, which means that he is countersigned by the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, and I believe that was Mr Nečas. So I don't quite think that this is the case and that it is up to the president of the Czech Republic. That's one thing. Second thing. If you'd listened to me carefully, I said it was thanks to an improved economic situation, thanks to the fact that the people who were released for amnesty are back, and thanks to the excellent work of the police and security forces. I didn't say a millimeter about my credit. This means that it was thanks mainly to police officers, police officers and other people working for security in the Czech Republic. You know, I talk to them a lot, and I'm ready to have this debate with you on the committee where it belongs. That means, I promise you publicly here that all the statements we have made with the Police President in the last three years that we will get and raise the police, personally analyse them, put them on the table, and we will discuss each and every statement on the committee together, and then tell the Honorable House how it turned out. I believe that the vast part of those promises have been fulfilled, and if it is not fulfilled at this time, it is ready to be fulfilled by the end of the parliamentary term. So that's an offer on my part. I think that we really have actually directed this debate elsewhere than purely to this amendment, but it is probably necessary, and I look forward to the debate in the committees - in one, in two, in three, in what time it will be needed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u59	Thank you, Home Secretary. Before we continue, Mrs Černochová's factual remark, I would like to read the apology that Mr Vilímec, Member of the Chamber of Deputies, directed at the President of the Chamber of Deputies from 16 am to 23 am and 24 pm. 2. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u60	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I thank the Minister for the attractive offer. I'm asking you to book at least a weekend or at least three days, because there's really been a lot of statements, so it's not about discussing this on the Security Committee, which will take two or three hours. To make no mistake, we're talking amnesty, we're talking prison service. I would very much appreciate it if, as Minister of this government coalition, you actually tried to persuade Minister of Justice Pelikán to raise funds to prison officials to deal with electronic bracelets, to deal with other things that are very troubled by the prison service in the current time, because then perhaps they would not have to be amnesty. You know, they amnesty, and I say I didn't like the scale, but the amnesty had to solve the problem of overcrowded prisons, and that's what needs to be said here clearly, out loud. And you're doing very well, Minister, you know. By the way, Prague 2, where I am mayor, has now launched a project where she employs sentenced persons in the execution of the sentence, offers them work even after being released from the sentence. I think that if the Ministry of the Interior, under which the public administration also falls, would give the municipalities any incentive to do so to other municipalities, not only Prague 2, it would also help a lot of the situation in our prison.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u61	Thank you, Mrs Černochová, for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and I have no further application for the debate. This allows me to end the debate and therefore ask the rapporteur and the Minister if they are interested in the final word. The rapporteur is interested in the final word. He will certainly recapitulate the debate and remind me that there is a motion for a return. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u62	That's just it. I wanted to remind my colleague Černochová, because of the change in the President, that she has put forward a motion to re-work. But I would like to say for myself that it is already February, the elections are really close, and that if you vote for the return, this amendment will probably not be able to make it. Unless she's in the '90s, which is a special procedure. Even less would be discussed in committees. So I personally, if I am to evaluate this proposal, do not consider it reasonable at all, and I very much pray that you do not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u63	I thank the rapporteur and indeed in the debate there has been a proposal for a return from Mrs Černochová. The motion to dismiss didn't fall. So, before we deal with any other procedural proposal, we must first decide to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your identification cards, and I will try to attract my colleagues and colleagues from the front door to the vote. The number of applicants has settled and we will decide in the vote number 100 on the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 100 of the 131 Members present for 28, against 99. The motion was denied. We can therefore continue with the organisational decisions of the Chamber of Deputies, with the fact that the Organising Committee of the Chamber of Deputies has proposed ordering the motion to discuss the Security Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest ordering another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. So we can vote. We will decide in the vote number 101, which I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment of the Security Committee as a committee of guarantee. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 101 of the 131 Member present for 126, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Mrs Černochová is applying for another proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u64	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Now it would probably be in a standard situation, if it weren't for seven months before the election, to propose a defence committee, because it has been said here several times from our mouth that there is some disproportion between the different congregations and that it might be appropriate to compare it. Since I know that I would be accused of delaying it, I am prolonging it, which is not my goal, so I do not propose the Defence Committee, but I ask that the Minister of Defence speak with a clear promise that he will speak to Minister Stropnický, because I know that he doesn't talk much, that he doesn't work among them, as I said in Partii, chemistry, and that it would be necessary for them to actually sit down and put things together. So I ask very much for the Minister's oral promise that he and Secretary of Defense Stropnický will discuss these matters so that, in these questions, as we have discussed with our colleague Ondráček and you have agreed with us, the claims and valuations under Law 221 and under this law are somehow compared. I'm begging you. Then I won't suggest the command of the defense committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-007-066.u65	Well, that's a conditional non-proposition, as I would call it. I'm asking if the Minister is interested in commenting on this. [[Voices from the benches: No. He's not interested.]] He's not interested. Okay. In that case, we'll continue to be positive. There was no proposal for a further vote and, of course, the Rules of Procedure apply that any of the proposals under discussion may be drawn up by the Defence Committee if it appears sufficiently important for its consideration. Since no proposal has been made or a proposal has been made to amend the time limit for the hearing, I note that this proposal has been directed to the Committee on Security as a committee of guarantee, it has not been ordered to any other committee and the time limit for the hearing has been maintained under the Rules of Procedure Act for 60 days. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and finish with point 66. We will deal with the next item on our approved agenda and that is the point
