ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u1	19. Government bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 959/ - second reading I will ask Secretary Kateřina Valachová to take the floor at the rapporteur's desk. I will ask the same of Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, who is rapporteur for the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports. She's already at the table. And now I will ask the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová to present the second reading of this press. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, allow me to introduce another phase in the discussion of the Government's bill amending the law on teaching workers -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u3	Madam Secretary, I will interrupt you again. I ask very strongly all colleagues who are having a different discussion than the press 959, to do so in the lobby! The Minister has the right to present to us, under the authority of the Government, what he thinks about committee discussions, what his position is. And surely it's important that we perceive it. [[The House gradually quieted down.]] Thank you. You have your word, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u4	It's a career order of teachers. As you all know, the career order of teachers is a long-awaited document, and the lack of professional support for teachers is a pain that troubles our education. I thank you for the discussion in both the school committee and the subcommittees. I would also like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that the Education Committee met at a joint meeting with the Senate Education Committee to discuss the future professional support of teachers. I would like to thank, of course, for this discussion, as well as for the participation of Members on round tables with teachers in the regions that Members have taken with me. As for the career order of teachers, I will not repeat what has already been presented at first reading. The key thing is that this is the lack of professional support, the introduction of a new teacher's career path, the support of early teachers, the increased support for specialisation and better continuing teacher education itself, and, after all, better evaluation of excellent teachers in the third career grade. From the point of view of financial support, support for initial teachers can be summarised in the case of transition to a separate teacher with an additional 2,000. CZK, when switching from a separate teacher to an excellent teacher with an extra 5 thousand. Crowns. However, it would be very simplistic to refer to the career order of teachers as something that will fundamentally change the assessment of teachers. The key is professional support, organization, system of professional support and its entitlement to all schools in the Czech Republic for our teachers. The career order, as discussed in the school committee, was inspired by what already works in practice. And I appreciate the efforts of Members, because I have been led by the same effort in the presentation and I support any step that goes in this direction to reduce the possible bureaucratic burden associated with the career order of teachers. In this respect, I would like to draw attention to the conformity of the school committees of the two chambers of Parliament in the sense of extending the professional development plans for two years or starting the support of independent teachers and the need to process these professional development plans one year later, i.e. from September 2018. This was also discussed with the vocational associations of schools, and they also supported this. At the same time, I would like to say that there has been a great agreement to support the inclusion of a social educator among a family of educators, and I am pleased that this is also supported by the various Members and Senators of both Parliament's school committees. There was a great discussion about whether to let go or not to let go of teachers and thus support the number of teachers, which are particularly insufficient at the first grade of primary schools at the moment in regions such as Prague or the Central Bohemia Region. I would like to say my position very strongly here. We have a big problem with ensuring teachers because we misappreciate them, we do not have professional support for teachers, and we have these problems because respect for the teaching profession has not been received in recent years, it has not been as strong as it should be. As a result, qualified teachers leave school after five or ten years of practice for a simple reason - they do not support their own family. They're teachers motivated by trying to stay in schools, but we don't create conditions for them. As well as more than 60 percent of graduates of teaching faculties do not enter schools, they do not become teachers. This is our problem, this is something that we have to solve and which we have to change. Those who are worried about how intergenerational teacher and teacher changes will take place in the coming years, I want to make sure that if we manage to reverse this trend by 2020, I have described it and turn it around, i.e. that more than 60 percent of teachers - graduates of teaching faculties, on the contrary, head to schools, not to flee from them, just to dust behind them, we will not have a problem with intergenerational variation. This isn't our problem. The problem is the lack of evaluation, poor professional support and what conditions teachers had in the past for their work. Let's change that, please. After all, I think that this government, with the support of Parliament, has taken a lot of steps to eliminate these flaws in the beauty of the support of the teaching profession. And I think that's the way to go. On the other hand, I support the efforts of Members and Senators to make the teaching profession accessible to practitioners. After all, this trend The Chamber of Deputies also supported in higher education the system of particularly important experts, extraordinary professors - you will all remember this debate. I therefore support, as Minister, amendments that would allow the entry of university-educated non-educated non-teachers at vocational schools in the case of vocational courses or grammar schools, who would, however, have to provide at least a minimum of education within four years, but already with the support of the career order. Finally, I would like to say that it is a great damage that the career order of teachers was not approved ten years ago. Because if that were the case, we could forgive ourselves for formal bureaucratic and stamp bullying for ten years towards our teachers and teachers, who had to supplement each other three times to finally learn that they are what we think they are again. Unqualified. We also need to come out of this, and we cannot throw overboard these teachers, who very often get formal education in their own free time for their own money, for that crippled salary, finish, and now we would tell them: and again change and again it doesn't apply. That is why I think that, as discussed in the Education Committee, both the Houses and the Senate, it is important to us to find a consensus, so we are able to find a way that everyone supports. And this journey was embodied in a common comprehensive amendment approved by the Education Committee and voted in this way by the Block Education Committee. Once again, I would like to thank all Members and Senators for their work on the career order of teachers so far. I think we're in a position to move our careers in the right direction. We aim, in simple terms, for the highest possible professional support and for as little paper as possible. We want more time for children, fewer papers in our schools. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u5	Thank you, Minister of Education, Youth and Sports. I note that, at first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as printings from 959/1 to 959/3. I ask that now the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová, inform us about the committee's discussions and justify any amendments from the committee. Madam rapporteur, you have enough peace, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u6	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Mr. Ministers. I would like to say that I am very pleased that this is the press that we are completing as if the triumvirate of the changes that we have brought to schools during this parliamentary term. The first significant change is that a really 13.5 billion have been added to the education budget. Since this money was added, we could also start working on other legislative changes. We have already approved one, which is now in the Senate, and it is the reform of regional education funding. Next up, we have it here at second reading. But I must say, between the first and second readings, as the Minister has already mentioned, a great deal of work has been done. It was, as has already been said here, a joint meeting of the Senate Committee and Parliamentary Committee. In addition, round tables were held in the regions with teachers' representatives and representatives of the association and with representatives of school directors. And what's important is that they weren't familiar with what we suggested, what we wanted to approve, but we were getting information from them about what they didn't like, what from practice might change. That is why these changes were incorporated into some of the amendments approved last week by the 23rd resolution of the School Committee. In addition, you still have 11 amendments in the system, which, as I see on the board, will be lectured and justified by colleagues here. I am very glad that there will be a detailed debate here, because all those who will speak here have the experience that he has given them, as we say, the terrain and which want to positively change the proposed career order so that it can work. Finally, I would just like to remind you that this career order is a document that has been mentioned here for almost 15 years, and only we in this House and in this government have managed to bring it into paragrafo form and present it to you for discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u7	I thank the rapporteur, Vlasta, Bohdalová, for her performance. I am opening a general debate in which I have a large number of applications. The first to be applied for and the first to be given the floor of Mrs Anna Putnová and Mr Kořenek will be prepared. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u8	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I think today is a really important day for regional education, because it is on the agenda for the issue of the career order, which, as has been said several times, has been quite a stumbling block for several ministers who have tried to push through the career order. In this sense, I would like to commend the Minister's work and congratulate her for getting this far and able to enforce at all in the form in which we have our careers today at the House meeting. Words of praise for the order of a career have been heard here. I think it is right not only to see the positives it brings and which have already been mentioned here, whether it is the clear financial guarantee, predictability and some continuity in the management of school policy, so we need to look at the other side, because, of course, the career order is not and cannot be perfect and it will also bring certain - I do not want to say problems, but it will undoubtedly bring some challenging steps in the implementation phase. I see the problem, above all, of this career order, in that the three-stage model will mean that most teachers, the hundred thousand-dollar army, will find themselves in the second degree, which will undoubtedly require the differentiation of another level of teachers according to their qualifications and experience in the future. On the other hand, I understand that it is difficult to introduce more degrees in the first and in one step, because our schools probably wouldn't have done it administratively. It is also necessary for the public and, above all, teachers and directors to get used to this method. That's all true. However, I think it would be right for us to be aware of these negatives, to be aware that we are at the beginning of the journey, that, in my view, it is a step in the right direction, but that this is not a path that is clearly trampled, verified with us and that we could continue without stumbling. It can be assumed that in the future it will be necessary to re-precise the career order, modify it for our terms and undoubtedly set even more degrees. In the second part of my speech, I would like to comment on the amendment, which is aimed at school leave for teachers. It is a thing that I have been inspired by experience abroad and also by the university law, which has a built-in institute of so-called sabbatical. This is a space for teacher education, which is not supposed to replace continuous education, but it is supposed to be such doping and possibilities after a certain time, in this case after 15 years, to add to the knowledge that the field has experienced in that time, and for another it is also a kind of prevention of burnout. My proposal goes to the middle generation of teachers. These are forty-year-olds who have had many years of training, they already know a lot about education, and I think they're mature to take a break, to go back to the benches, and to mostly relax not from school, but from teaching themselves, and to become students themselves. Inspiration also came from abroad. I will read to you at random a number of surrounding countries that adjust and understand their teachers and give them space for education. We can start in Germany, where there is a study leave in the competence of individual Länder and is supported by both a short-term study leave and a sabbatical which allows employees to take leave of work for three to twelve months. In Poland, a full-time teacher is entitled to paid leave linked to professional development. Detailed conditions of leave are laid down by the Ministry of Education. There is a Sabbath institute in Austria, teachers may be released for six to twelve months if they have worked for more than five years. Another special provision concerns teachers of vocational training institutions and masters of vocational training who can take time off at university courses. [[15.10 hours]] In Hungary, the obligation of continuous education is enshrined in the law. At least once every seven years, the teacher must participate in compulsory programmes for further professional education. So it's only at random for those surrounding countries to show that it's not some experiment in the Czech Republic, but that we're actually just comparing a step with the environment that's already been tested. We have tried to include the comments of the Ministry of Education in this amendment, because however much of a legislative entitlement to leave would be subject to the approval of the Director, so it would be possible to schedule within the school which teachers and when they will be able to take this leave. So it can't be that fear, which, of course, is offered that half the school has left and no one has to teach. Such a thing cannot happen either practically or theoretically, and that is because they will only gradually start running programs that would be offered to teachers at professional faculties, teaching faculties, so that the run-up would be gradual and our estimate, which is based on such an survey among teachers, seems that it would be possible for a tenth of teachers to leave for study leave within one school year without substantially compromising their teaching. I think that teachers who are motivated, who love school are the good teachers that we would like to see in school and who would also like children's parents. I will sign up for the amendment in a detailed discussion. If you would like to learn more, I also refer to the very detailed explanatory report of this amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u9	Thank you, Mrs Anna Putnová, for her performance. Now, Mr Petr Kořenek in the general debate, Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I can note that it is also the duty of teachers to educate themselves as a professional person. And not only teachers, but tutors and psychologists. However, it's all sort of taken for granted. We also present new teachers. But we do it all for free. This opens the way to evaluate all other activities of a teacher that the public does not know or know about. In general, only teaching is perceived. The other work of the teacher is mainly kept secret from the parental public. So I believe that the career order will be the one that will help teachers both to improve their assessment, but also to make their work much easier and to have the appropriate support of professional institutions. Nevertheless, I dare to read several amendments to this law and state their justification. The first amendment will be: In the Houses of the Press in paragraph 3 in the newly inserted paragraph of Section 9a para. The words "specialised subjects and professional subjects' shall be deleted and shall be deleted after the words "Section 9a para. the words "one or' are inserted. To point 1. The amendment proposes to allow teachers to operate without professional qualifications, so-called high school practitioners, but the regulation applies exclusively to teachers of vocational subjects of secondary schools. It would therefore not apply to grammar schools where there are no vocational subjects. In practice, this could result in a situation where a high school specialist would teach from practice e.g. Chemistry as a professional subject, however, this expert from practice could no longer teach chemistry at grammar school, since at grammar school it would be a general educational subject. It is therefore proposed to extend the possibility of teaching without professional qualifications with a higher education corresponding to the nature of the subject being taught to all secondary schools. The condition for obtaining appropriate professional qualifications within four years of the date of establishment of his employment shall be maintained. Further adaptation: In point 3 and in the newly inserted section 9a, the words "employment ratio' are replaced by the words "basic employment relationship'. Here is proposed legislative technical regulation. The head of the school may recognise in writing the presumption of professional qualifications not only to teachers who are employed in employment but also to those who have an out-of-work agreement. However, under point (b), there is a "working relationship'. The next amendment concerns part three, where part four is inserted. I will just say the reason: this proposal extends the period for which it will be possible to provide preventive training to children in a diagnostic institute at the request of parents. The extension of the period will allow for further provision of this support and a smoother adjustment of the education system. Act No. 333/2012 Sb. this option is fixed by 31. 8. However, 2017, which has proved inadequately long. The next two years will allow sufficient and high-quality training to be carried out in order to preserve the needs and interests of all the persons and entities concerned. The other amendment concerns the second part of Article 2 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and the second part of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (TFEU) and the second part of the Reason: It is proposed to shorten the period for which the pupil must stay abroad in order to have the possibility of adjusting the exam. A number of high school students from the Czech Republic leave to study abroad for less than four years. For example, France is one of the countries where Czech high school students regularly go. The length of study at the grammar school in France is three years. After returning, these students could not take advantage of the possibility of adjusting the conditions of the exam from the subject of the Czech language at the joint part of the graduation exam. At the same time, their stay is long enough to have some difficulties with Czech after their return. It must also be taken into account that the work missions of Czech citizens abroad, especially in the area of diplomacy, but also others, are not necessarily for four years. One two years is not much of a role, but a period of three years and above without the background of an education provider abroad with just a self-study may already cause certain problems for pupils. Eight years could lead to a situation where a child will be abroad for four years in primary school, then return to the four-year high school and have relief at graduation. The definition of the length of education outside the territory of the Czech Republic as three years over six years would thus better cover possible emerging situations. The last amendment is an alternative to the amendment tabled here by Mrs Putnová. I am afraid that in many cases, when we were used to the adoption of standards in education, which were then not covered by funds, I would like to propose in the context of the reasoning. It is proposed directly in the Education Worker Act to indicate the possibility of an agreement on the provision of leave for private education, which could be concluded by the headmaster of the school with the teacher. The principle of this Agreement would therefore be to grant a paid leave of up to six months. The agreement could be concluded if the teacher had taught ten years and could be repeated after another ten years. [[15.20 hours]] The aim of the leave for further education is to deepen and develop the professional competences of the teacher. A leave for self-education would thus have to be used with a teacher's professional competence to develop activities related to the performance of his teaching activity, such as creative activities or work with an employer working with the school. The explicit indication of the possibility of paid leave for self-education in the Education Act will not only lead to an increase in its real provision, but above all will remove possible doubts as to whether, in the case of reimbursement of costs related to leave for own education, it is an eligible expenditure of public funds. I will then sign up for these amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u11	I thank Mr Petr Kořínek. Mr Karel Rais will now appear, and Mrs Marta Semelová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u12	Mr President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, I was very interested in listening to the introductory words of the Minister. I am glad that she spoke here about the need to reduce the number of young teachers leaving, and this is certainly not an easy task. Unfortunately, this task will not only be dealt with by pouring more money in there, it would be too easy, but it also has to do with the increase in bureaucracy and the increase in administration, carried out not only by the young but also by the directors. When you're in contact with the principals of primary and secondary schools, they're begging for a pretty big increase in administration, which I think is a problem that we should be dealing with. And now for my own subject, why I'm here. I would like to bring a little closer to the amendment, which was inspired by the Association of Industry, and it was consulted by the Ministry of Education as well, and he is quite similar to what the previous speaker said. In essence, the current amendment does not allow people interested in the teaching profession to enter the career system, which no longer fulfils all the conditions of professional competence at the beginning, i.e. they do not have pedagogical education for a given field or vocational university education, which would be supplemented by a pedagogical minimum, which would, of course, limit the number of people we will be interested in the director or the school. And if I add to that the fact that there's a huge shortage of high school teachers whose age average is over 50 years old, this proposal could pose a problem in the process of gradually replacing these people with qualified practitioners. Therefore, after discussion with the workers of the Confederation of Industry and the Ministry of Education, I propose to allow entry into the career system also for graduates of universities without prior pedagogical education, while the condition of the adaptation period would be to supplement the mentioned pedagogical minimum. I propose to extend the adaptation period by a minimum of three years at most, i.e. Five years, actually. Within five years, they should receive a minimum of education. This proposal is detailed in the amendment under number 5761. I will then come back to that in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u13	I thank Mr Karel Rais for his speech and we will now continue with Mrs Marta Semelová's speech, Mrs Nina Nováková will prepare herself. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u14	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, colleagues, government. Career Regulations should bring better motivation for teachers into schools. I therefore understand his need to a certain extent, because the system of continuing education is fragmented, the career order has been discussed for several years in the long term. On the other hand, I see the proposal presented as problematic, which is complex for both teachers and school directors, both in time and organized terms, and threatens to grow back into administration. We are all aware that the teaching profession is very demanding and very responsible, that it should fit the conditions, both working and pay. It has also been said that graduates of teaching faculties, but also other schools that prepare teachers, do not enter the school. The problem is that even when they start school, they leave school shortly after they start. There is, of course, a condition, not only for the order of careers, but for everything that should improve education, but also an increase in the education budget. It is true that somewhere the situation is very critical. No math teachers, physics, chemistry, foreign language teachers and IT teachers, vocational education teachers are missing. In addition, technical fields are studied by a very small number of university students, instead of teaching, they prefer non-teacher studies, where they are then better assessed on salary. The problem is that in a short time, a number of teachers of the disciplines I was talking about will retire and have no one to replace them. According to surveys carried out by the Ministry of Education between 2012 and 2016, teachers are less than 35 years of age. There's no men in school. That's a well-known question, a well-known thing. How many requirements I spoke about at the beginning meet the law on pedagogical workers, or the design of a career order, I think of this as a big question mark. I don't want to turn down a career order with that, no way. And I admit it contains a number of positive things. Specifically, if I were to name it, in any case, I would like to appreciate the support for beginners during the adaptation period and the associated surcharge for listing teachers for two years. It is true that in many schools there was reasonable guidance and the teacher was left behind, although it was not their duty, but the money was actually given from personal valuations, rewards, etc., so the CZK 3,000 surcharge, I think it certainly belongs to this important position. The teaching teacher can help the starting teacher to actually transform or turn into a highly qualified, high-quality teacher and also help him to get into the school -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u15	Madam, I am sorry, but I must also interrupt you and ask the House once again for peace! I think we had problems with this at the beginning of the meeting, with the noise, they are coming back now, so I will ask colleagues and colleagues again to conduct discussions that are not related to the press 959, in principle in the foyer. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u16	Thank you. And, of course, he also helps in such practical matters as helping to start dealing with parents and educational problems in children and so on. So I really appreciate it here, and I think it's a great advantage of this bill. Next thing I know, there's a kind of return or restoration of specialized Methodical Cabinets. I don't really care what they're called, but it's just something we know and I think it helps not only beginners but teachers at any age. As far as specialization positions are concerned, there are some traditional, such as guidance counselors. I'm sure that's what's needed in schools, they work, they exist now. It's a good thing it's also appreciated here by a specialty supplement. The second thing is the 250-hour education, where it can cause some problems of organizational character in schools. I know it's not a condition here with a guidance counselor if he's already engaged in this activity according to a study that's been done in the past or at present. [[15.30 hours]] The second thing is with a career counselor, where he has a degree, even if he has a person who could perform this function, so he has studied educational counseling - here it is no longer recognized, which I see as a problem. As far as the next position accepted by the Minister is concerned, my amendment is a special educator. I welcome this helpfulness. It is true that I have suggested it a little differently in the sense that it should be a special worker, because it is the experience from abroad, but also from schools where they have already introduced this position, that it should not be a teacher, for several reasons. For one thing, there is a somewhat different relationship between the pupil and this social worker than between the pupil and the teacher, and the second thing is that the social worker should also be used in order that when needed, he should immediately go out into the field, and so if he is a teacher, it will be difficult. However, as I said, I welcome it. I see it as a compromise. It's a person's position where there's cross-school overlap. He's working with the child's family, working with the OSPOD, working with others, like the police, with other files. It should therefore help pupils and help families. With regard to the introduction of other new positions, I am thinking, for example, now. Autovaluation coordinator or mentor, I already see it as problematic here. I think that this should be preserved in the competence of the school director and, if necessary, to support the activities of methodological associations where there is a great deal of room to exchange experience. I welcomed the proposal to change the premium for classrooms, because I was here last time criticizing the distribution of the premium for classrooms for first grade teachers and second grade teachers, where a larger addition was actually proposed at the second stage. We've been making a proposal to make a grade-class bonus, and we've suggested that it's a percentage. Specifically, five to eight percent, which I consider to be better, with the fact that if there were an increase in salaries, it would actually reflect on the amount of the premium for sorting, as proposed now, i.e. a specific amount, so here would stagnate the amount against the increase in the surcharge. However, I also consider this to be a compromise, that it is compared and now it is given a range of thousands to thousands of 500 crowns, with the fact that it is not with regard to the degree of school, but rather with regard to the complexity and conditions of which schools, which classes. These are things I see as positive. I would also mention what we see as negative, and that is above all, and in the end the Minister also spoke about this at the beginning of her speech, this is a question of the administrative burden of teachers. I think that the proposal, as it is presented, will simply deepen the administrative burden of teachers who today, whether they are teachers, directors, fill out a daily number of papers, various tables, questionnaires. And another burden fell on them with the launch of the so-called. inclusions that weren't prepared enough. Experience from schools, if I stop at this problem, confirms our concern that integrated children will be more excluded than if they remain in special schools. I can say a specific example here, when I found out in several schools that integrated children instead of learning together the way they were declared in the framework of joint education, so the assistants put them in the hallway, into the cabinet, and there they are tutored from completely different subjects than they are at school. So here are the problems both of this nature and those related to the increase in administration. If I go back to the career order as it is presented, and to the growth of bureaucracy and paperwork, there are two other proposals involved, and this is a school development plan, a teacher's professional development plan. With regard to the school development plan, I understand some logic that schools should have an idea of the direction in which education should continue. First of all, I think that the school heads, the school heads, together with the faculty, are doing it. And for another, as it is proposed here, I see it again as adding to paperwork and, moreover, that formalism is at risk here. As for the teacher's professional development plan, portfolio management, certification... Again, I see it as another administrative burden, and it will mainly be paper-documented competence here. I would very much like for us to finally hear the voice of teachers who, together with the school's leadership, are calling for stabilization in education and also for them to be taught. To get rid of all the paperwork, all the charts. And really so that they can devote themselves fully to what they are in education for, and that is the teaching of pupils. Of course, teachers must be educated. They must continue to develop throughout their lives, but they do, and they have always done so without such an amendment, and they have seen it as very necessary. So I think that without this amendment, it's completely obvious. As far as the sub-legal standard is concerned, specifically the standard of a teacher with whom a career order should be linked, I know that it is a sub-legal standard. But how many times do these standards then specify the law or the amendment so that we and those concerned are not surprised, too, that is to say, school workers. So the standard of the teacher, the proposal that we could get to know on the school committee, I must say that it was a very comprehensive, very complicated, complex, incomprehensible work. Just a lot of words about nothing that, in my opinion, it's useless. I believe there's still work to be done and it'll be remodeled. Once again, teachers want to teach, and not administratively go through dozens of pages just to know what to look like at what level of career. With regard to some of the amendments that have been tabled here - I am thinking specifically of Mrs Putnová's proposal, which should allow teachers in regional education, i.e. primary schools, secondary schools, higher vocational schools, once every 15 years to take advantage of the possibility of six months of creative leave, where they could be educated according to their needs and the needs of the schools. She's a good idea. I think that many middle-aged teachers, as has been said, would certainly help. They could end up going to certain internships. On the other hand, here I see the big problems that could be involved in schools, organizational problems. I was talking here at the beginning of my performance about the fact that there are big problems with schools getting qualified teaching staff especially for some fields, some subjects, full-time, permanent, and that there are already all kinds of exceptions that are allowed to teach everything, because those qualified workers can't get schools. I am very concerned if we approve this amendment, that it will bring organizational problems to schools, that they will not get the substitute cantor, especially if it is for six months. Plus, it's possible that those teachers who fall out of school for six months aren't gonna get caught up somewhere else, and they're not gonna go back to school. [[15.40 hours]] In my performance, I outlined some of the positives that we perceive, some of the negatives that we see as warning. As far as the positives are concerned, I think that much of the good that is contained in the amendment can be dealt with without changing the career order with the complicated administration as it is presented, and that the career order to do what it really has to be as simple as possible. And I'm worried that the proposed amendment doesn't quite fill it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u17	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs Semelová. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mrs Nina Nováková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue with what Mrs Semelová was talking about at the beginning, and these were specialized activities. But before that, there's one thing I'd like to ask. We are trying to improve the situation of our teachers because we gradually perceive that if we do not have good schools, we simply will not be well in our country. That's for sure. But I allow myself to focus my attention on pupils, because if we do everything that is innovative for schools, if we do not expect a student and teacher partner relationship there, but also a student - teacher - parent and plus founder relationship, the atmosphere in our schools cannot improve. The fact that it is not good is also mentioned in the annual report by the Czech School Inspectorate, that there are very often emotions that may seem harmless but very dangerous, and that is boring, because from boredom ideas can come from things very negative. Then, unfortunately, what happens in secondary schools is a sense of confusion. They don't know where they are in the educational process. They do not know exactly what is required of them, simply because we do not place emphasis on getting feedback from pupils. I would not like to hear what happens during discussions when high school representatives come in and ask only very decently and politely to consider whether educators should not receive feedback from their pupils, whether they may be doing well, if they think that the teacher is an excellent expert, but already less excellent psychologist, etc. The reaction our young people are getting is completely negative. So I gave up trying to include in the personal professional growth of teachers also a condition that the teacher is able to get feedback from his pupils in a quality way - and the tools are - in a quality way. However, what I would very much like to propose and recommend in my amendment would be some completion of specialized activities. We currently have ten proposed in the draft law, and I would like to propose one specialized activity so that it is added and thought of also in the further education of teaching staff, and this is the activity of the coordinator of pupil bodies. In many schools, as the law allows, pupils have the authorities of the student self-government. It's not about running the school in parallel, but these students are learning - representatives of all classes - to listen to the problems that their classmates have in the classroom, then to transfer problems from one class to a joint meeting of representatives of all classes. And when they agree on a problem and want a change, it usually involves actually the material equipment of the school or some organization of breaks etc., then they have a great task - to be able to communicate well with adults. According to the school law, we currently have - this is news since the school law was last discussed - such an advantage or convenience that if the student self-government agrees on something, not only does the director have an obligation to at least hear them and take their initiative into account in an appropriate manner, but that the school board is currently obliged to take this into account. And the school board is a rare environment where educators, parents, founders meet and new suggestions from the student self-government could come. It's not easy to combine all of this. Pupils learn when they are active in the pupil's self-government, great empathy. He's learning courtesy. They learn how to perform as adults someday. And it is precisely in the coordination of the activities of the pupils' authorities that we need to be very sensitive, and therefore I think it would be very right for us to add a list of specialized activities also to the coordinator of the pupil's self-government and to think of this possible, not mandatory, but also possible position when drawing up a programme for further education of teaching staff. In a detailed debate, I will therefore sign up to this amendment, which seeks to draw attention to pupils and the need for a partnership relationship between pupils and teachers, because without this, the atmosphere in schools will not change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u19	He's right, Madame. Thank you, Madame Lady, for her performance. I beg Mrs Ivana Dobešová for her contribution. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u20	Hello, Mr President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. Let me also comment on the amendment to Act No. 563, about teaching staff. I think most educators have long known that such a career order, which is being discussed in the House today, is being prepared. Even in my first performance, I said that the pedagogical public supports the career order. However, the Minister and I met on a round table, and I personally would like to draw attention to some of the things that I see as not entirely clear and perhaps sometimes written on paper. Maybe now I'll say things I'd rather say from my teaching experience and the school principal's experience. In the career order it is stated and spoken of as a teacher. I must say that the prudent directors always have a teacher because they know that every educator who finishes teaching needs someone to help him get into practice. What I appreciate is that this older colleague will be financially valued and will not do so only because he has been asked and, if there are any funds left, will also be evaluated. We're talking about Methodical Cabinets. But I am the director of vocational school, and I have to say that we call it a methodological committee, and without methodological committees, we could not exist, because these are the authorities that have helped us in the past with school educational programs that are the guarantors of the content of education by application. I think that what is good is that they will be covered on a regional or other level and will therefore continue to be conducted methodically. There is also a special educator here, but I say again, if he is a wise principal of a large school, he must have a really special educator at school today, because it is not only about pupils who need help from the point of view of different DIS, but a special educator has a role to play and takes over part of the teaching and teaching functions as such. The amendment contains more precise qualifications for practice teachers. I am very happy for that, because there are very few of these teachers in schools. But what bothers me is that we pay them in ninth and tenth grade, and that doesn't solve the reduction in qualifications. That means those teachers aren't gonna be with us unless we move them to another grade. I know the Ministry of Education is considering the tenth or eleventh grade plus a qualifying bonus. It was pushed by unions that are afraid of some bad relationship between different categories of teachers. But I believe that a teacher of practice already from his name is called a teacher and should therefore have comparable conditions with a teacher of theory because his work is as demanding as a teacher in class. And I think it's inadequate. [[15.50 hours]] Madam Secretary knows that I have already pointed out several times that we operate with the term self-study to increase qualifications, and we all see the time of self-study as a time off. It is therefore very difficult to send employees on a business trip at a time when he is asking for leave of work. The discussion eventually led to whether we should set the teacher seven days or twelve days. I don't see the problem with that. I do not really agree with the interpretation of the MPSV that, at a time of self-study, I can send a teacher on a business trip as an employer. This implies employment relationships at a time when he is entitled to a diet, he is entitled to compensation for travel, accommodation, but, of course, even in the event of injury or accident at the time of movement, there are some employment obligations. What worries me most about the career order is a career development plan. I know it's good that the teacher knows what he's gonna do when he's two, but it's really paperwork. I have 75 teachers at school. The idea that I control 75 teachers in September, or possibly correct a career development plan with them, scares me completely because the director has many other responsibilities. From my point of view, it will either be purely administrative, or if we do it honestly, it will take us a lot of time. Maybe I'm wrong, maybe the practice will show that it isn't, but we're really swamped with that amount of administration right now, that creepy, that kind of thing that, eventually, when a seduce is made, no one even knows, so I'm really a little worried about it. I am just pointing out, in the amendment adopted by the Education Committee, that part of the anchoring of the career system says that the Ministry of Education will set up a legal person to ensure the professional development of teaching staff. No, I know it's not new, I'm talking about something else. [[Secretary off the mic from the news desk.]] I just hope that those organizations that are setting up regions today, such as the Education Institute for the Central Bohemia Region, and which did this role at a time when the National Institute didn't implement it, will not now have strong competition in this institution, because they are systemically established organizations established by the regions and are far closer to teachers than this central organisation. But maybe the secretary will answer that and say what it means. But unfortunately, it is not said in the proposal that, among other things, this organisation. And I think that we should not have a general partner who will be the only one in the Czech Republic to tell us what education should look like, that diversity will certainly also contribute to better education for pedagogical workers. Let me - although I do not yet know the amendments of two of my fellow Members from the TOP 09, but since they have announced them, let me also comment on these two proposals. This is Mrs Putnová's proposal, which - it has already been mentioned here by my previous speaker, Mrs Semelová - wants to propose a six-month period for such a reflection. I think teachers really need this, but I'm not entirely sure this thing will help systemically in education, because of course that means more costs to finance teachers' salaries, and it also means organizational claims. Let me also respond to Mrs Nina Nováková's speech, which came up with a very revolutionary proposal, which I would just briefly paraphrase here, that students in secondary schools will participate in the assessment of teachers in managing their certification procedure, that they will evaluate teachers and their evaluation will be part of the evaluation of the school's principal. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I call an inside-out school. Teachers will get grades and pupils will dictate conditions. I would ask that Members really sometimes go to the real school to see what the relationship between a teacher and a pupil looks like, how hard it is for us to put together an educational process nowadays, because the rights of pupils are really almost absolute today. I don't have a problem with a student giving the principal his feedback as a teacher teaches. I don't really have a problem with that. A good CEO usually knows that. A good director knows how his teachers teach. He just doesn't have so many tools to replace them with better teachers, because he doesn't have enough money and because, for example, the profession in the labour market is insufficient goods. However, I say for myself that I will not support this proposal because I am still the head of the school and I know what impact it would have on the teaching choirs. Teachers would certainly try to convince pupils that they are great just before a test or some qualification degree. I'd rather they convince them of it every day, without any targeted assessment of the pupils. There was a round table in the House where the students tried to convince themselves of their proposal. I know they've visited the central school inspector. However, I was not convinced, because the questionnaire they gave us as a proposal to evaluate teachers had factual errors. I would evaluate their performance from a formal point of view for one, in terms of content for four, in total for three. That's all I wanted to say about the career order. Thank you so much for watching me closely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u21	I thank the lady. Her act's one. Another point of fact is Mrs Nina Nováková, followed by Mr Ivan Gabal, with a factual remark. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like to follow up on Mrs Dobešová's speech. We have known in the framework education programmes for 15 years since the so-called kuricular reform of education that one of the things we are to teach children is to evaluate ourselves, seek out our strengths and weaknesses. And if that's what a teacher's supposed to teach children, he's got to be able to do it himself. I wanted to point out that it is essential for every teacher to want to grow, to know the impact of his actions. I must categorically state that one who wishes most to be a good teacher, demanding and righteous is a pupil. I will conclude my brief performance by calming Mrs Dobešová down. I am not going to make this amendment. My amendment concerns the coordinator of the student self-government. But I still don't think you're right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u23	Thank you, Mrs Nováková. Mr Ivan Gabal and his factual point. Please, Ambassador, you have two minutes. Mrs Anna Putnová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u24	Hello, thank you for your word. Madam Minister, Mr President, we are discussing an extremely serious law that will decide our future. I'm sitting here listening and being taught how to look Czech school, but notice how many of our colleagues didn't last and just left. We belong to countries throughout the OECD where children like school the least. They don't like school. Do you think this kind of debate and this kind of legitimizing will change the situation if we don't even enjoy it? [[16.00 hours]] I'd say at the address of one of the previous speakers -- yes, the kids in that school have to sit, they have to listen to it, they can't debate it, they can't evaluate the cantors. No one who isn't from this profession can get among the cantors because we don't even have such an amendment in the law. Recently, we are blocking the emergence of other schools, already fundamental, to protect this monopoly of one-way yelling education. Don't be mad at me, let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u25	Mrs Anna Putnová and her factual point. Mr Štěpán Stupčuk will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u26	Thank you. Good afternoon again. To the address of my colleagues, who commented on the amendment concerning leave for teacher education. They say a good idea, but. If we continue with this policy and look for the same, then we will not really compare a step with the outside world and remain indebted to teachers. I was somewhat amused by Mrs Semelová's comment, which pointed out at the end of her speech that if we let the teachers out of school, they would not have to return to that school. That seems to me to be quite a message that may be an unwanted spell. But we should send teachers out just so they like to go back to school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u27	Thank you. Mr Štěpán Stupčuk and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u28	Thank you for your attention. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to thank my colleague Gabal by your means, Mr President. I think he said it right here. I mean, I have college, I'm a law doctor, but I don't understand what's going on here and what we're talking about here. And that is what I refer mostly to you, esteemed teacher and gentlemen of the teachers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u29	I thank my colleague. I'm a regional councillor for education, but I don't understand it either. Mr Fiedler and his proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know how to react to what's just been said here. We are Members of various professions here and we have to decide on laws of energy, health, legal, school, foreign policy, nature conservation. This probably carries the work of a Member, although I understand the substance of the matter which my colleague Stupčuk wanted to say. That's probably why we also have committees, and there are enough of us here to be able to cover the issue. But I would like to thank my fellow Member Gabal, who mentioned here that, indeed, at times, the negotiation of these laws and rather the absence of Members in this House is not worthy of how serious matters are being discussed in the future. Now, about why I volunteered. Because I also have an amendment that I would like to introduce you to. These are actually four points, and I assume that the rapporteur understands. It should probably be divided into four amendments, respectively. I suppose, then, on individual points, it's nice on four points, it's going to vote on its own. It is there as one amendment. It is based on my contacts with school workers from practice who have formulated their comments or suggestions on how to clarify this. Only a brief justification for point 1 of the amendment. Detailed reasoning is then recorded in the House system. It is proposed to leave the original version of § 22a para. 2 in the current version, in order to avoid unnecessary practical conflicts and various interpretations in practice. This is based on consultations with several school directors who have an opinion contrary to the petitioner, but I believe that the appropriate school committee will discuss this and then we will take a third-reading position at the vote. The second point of my proposed amendment introduces, on the one hand, a school's professional development plan, which is processed for a maximum period of six years, and a period of 12 months for which personal professional development plans will be developed is strictly defined. Point 2 of my amendment proposes that this period be extended to 36 months, i.e. half of the period for which the school's professional development plan as a whole can be developed, for reasons that those annual plans should not be taken too formally and simplisticly. It is a practical effect of this activity. Now I would like to follow up on what one of my previous speakers said before I go to the other two points, I think it was Mrs Dobešová on the frequent checks. It was like that. Coincidentally, I'm gonna take a little turn, it's got to do with the excessive bureaucracy that's been mentioned here. I visited one of our prisons, where I was literally appalled by the fact that the warden calculated that he had one check every day. That he carries out some kind of revision or inspection or processing control reports daily. And here we really got into a state of excessive bureaucracy. I almost think that we should say that the new laws that will be adopted will only be simpler than the previous ones. I'm sure that would be good for the cause. Now to point 3 of my amendment. This is about a time that a teacher can determine for himself, taking a leave for self-study. I have met, Madam Secretary, with some dissenting proposals from school directors and their operators who say that this is a nice idea, but it is too much to interfere with the order and system in school. Maybe somewhere it's acceptable, somewhere it's less acceptable. And in point 3, my proposal limits too much freedom. I do. You will then find detailed reasons in the House press. Point 4 proposes to unify the necessary practice for the performance of the Director of all types of schools and educational establishments for four years. The proposal of the petitioner takes over existing legislation and sets out a different length of the necessary pedagogical management or scientific research practice as a prerequisite for the performance of the function of head of a school or school establishment. I consider this to be unnecessary and, on the other hand, a division and complexity. I propose we unify this deadline for four years. You will then find detailed reasons in the House press, which I will sign up for in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u31	I thank Mr Fiedler. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Junek. I wanted to call myself Teacher Jiří Junek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u32	děkovat you, Mr President, former teacher. I'd probably just need a technical note, but I signed up properly. However, I just wanted to say that in my first reading speech, I drew attention to the contradiction in the fact that there should be a different remuneration for classrooms at first, second and third levels. I tabled an amendment to compare this. My amendment was between CZK 1,000 and CZK 2,000 for all levels, but then it was discussed in the committees, it was discussed, there was some compromise variant of CZK 1,000 to CZK 1,500. So I take that as a reasonable compromise. Thank you for him and I withdraw my amendment, virtually. I won't report to him. So thank you again to the Minister and the Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u33	Thank you, honourable Member. We didn't expect that much good news. Mr Jiří Zlatuška and his final application to the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u34	Mr President, Madam Minister, the law that we are discussing, the amendment, is very important because the system that is in it is something that has been lacking in our education for a long time. For a long time there is talk of the need to fill it up, and it is only now coming up. I definitely think the move we're taking is positive. Another question, however, is whether it is going far enough and whether this will really be enough for the series of problems that our education has. I would recall what my colleague Gabal said here in his factual comment on OECD research around the poor degree of motivation, the opposition of our pupils to the school and the role of what my colleague Gabal called a harmful monopoly on teacher training. I would not question that teaching is a profession, that it is not only a talent given from God, but that it is also necessary to prepare systematically for this work, to improve its assumptions and to do what is done in a number of other professions. In this, teaching is no different from other professions. On the other hand, as in other professions, we can have a small number of exceptions that are worth allowing the system, if you want, to go around and get into the system in a different way. In addition to what my colleague Gabal has already mentioned here, I would like to remind you of the recommendations that are being made in the OECD reports. The OECD recommends that we improve the mobility of workers in education, in order to allow advanced-age workers with a different career to enter education as teachers and to revive the environment, including in professional subjects or in science subjects. These things are known to help. I agree with what my colleague Gabal said here that such a break in the monopoly could be an improvement in terms of child motivation. Formal qualifications are not a guarantee of quality, although it is good to have the means to build it in the mainstream. Foreign analyses and observations of the Czech School Inspectorate refute the belief that teachers without formal qualifications are of less quality. Many school directors still hold teachers in schools who, while meeting legal requirements, only at the edge of the law. They're being held there because they think they're great teachers. If there are low-quality unqualified teachers in schools, this is usually due to the overall lack of teachers. International studies by Rockoff and Staiger from 2008 "What does certification tell us about the effectiveness of teachers? Evidence from New York," i.e. cities with roughly the same population as the Czech Republic, came out in Economics of Education Review in 2008, showing that formal certification is not relevant for the effectiveness of teaching. These are American conditions, but we lack similar studies. However, regardless of the fact that there is no comprehensive study, it is possible to contact the Czech School Inspection and its results and use partial data from it. According to Czech School Inspection Document The comparison of qualified and unqualified pedagogical staff was evaluated by 8 994 institutions in primary schools, of which 90.5 % for qualified and 9.5% for non-qualified pedagogical staff. And the conclusions of the Czech School Inspectorate are as follows: There is no difference between unqualified and qualified teaching staff in setting the target. Qualified teaching staff have set an appropriate target for higher education programmes - 91.4 %, for unqualified 87.2 %. Qualified teaching staff are more often assigned to the goal of the knowledge component - 92,3% qualified, 87,7% unqualified. On the other hand, unqualified are more likely to include in the target a skill component: 60.5 percent unqualified, only 54.8 qualified. On the other hand, unqualified teaching staff have slightly more frequented the separate work of pupils, on the other hand, less frequently assigned the work in pairs and front schooling. This can be assessed qualitatively positively. The effectiveness of the use of organisational forms was higher for qualified teaching staff, but it was not significant differences except for the independent work of pupils. Unqualified pedagogical staff to a significant extent, to a lesser extent, have classified trasmissive and communicative teaching methods, test work, problem learning and demonstration methods, on the contrary, have significantly more frequented the skills of practical methods. In general, the differences between qualified and unqualified teaching staff are not significant. And it is important to note that among unqualified teaching staff there is a large proportion of those who achieve excellent results and are excellently evaluated by the Czech School Inspection and, on the contrary, among the qualified there are many who are not evaluated well. Therefore, qualifications alone should not be some golden calf that we perceive without being aware of other aspects. This is supported by what has already been said here by colleagues Rais and Kořenko regarding the lack of teachers. Today we have a deficit of about 5,000 teachers, which increases by about 2,500 each year. And it is very likely that we will be forced systemically to look for solutions to such a lack of teachers. It doesn't just replace the transitions from universities to regional education, it's a negligible number that could go on like this. And it can be seriously feared that there will be a tendency in the future to teach bachelors or only seniors how it used to be at first grade. I would like to put forward an amendment that will insist on a general master's education for anyone who teaches at university, but will release the requirement of formal qualifications and leave specific ways of supplementing knowledge to the responsibility of the director who would impose this on teachers here. In addition to those general considerations, I would like to stress that there is also a recent judgment by the Constitutional Court, which has the number of the ÚS 3350/15, which concerns the right of dismissal of teachers who do not have the appropriate formal education. In his examination of the problem, the Constitutional Court came to the question set out in the judgment, she is from someone other than those judges, but it is a valid theory. It sounds: Grey is a theory, green is a tree of life. It emphasizes the experience that not everything - I quote the judgment - that can theoretically be prepared for is also practically important and applied. On the contrary, experience and experience that no school offers or even provides are often more important to practice. [[16.20 hours]] The amendment I propose in a detailed debate should prevent later similar changes, such as the reduction of education requirements in the service law. It is more appropriate, in my view, to have a systemal opportunity to receive under the supervision of a school head of university-educated staff motivated to learn than to rely on the possibility of teaching only high school students in case of an emergency. And the fact that I present this in the context of the career order is due to the fact that the certification procedure is undoubtedly a more appropriate and rapid way of actually completing qualifications under the supervision of already experienced teachers than would be a formalistic duration for obtaining pedagogical qualifications by way that otherwise corresponds to the study of workers who do not yet have a university degree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u35	Thank you, Mr. Zlatušek. Mr. President of the KDU-ČSL KDU-ČSL Jiří Mihola. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think it matters whether it's a priority or not. I have listened with interest to the discussion, as I usually do. More like a few positive words to conclude. It has been said that we have been pursuing a career order for several years. I'd say many years. I think some have almost lost hope, others may rediscover it or find it. And I'm glad we're in front of that final that I believe is going to end well. I think it is through some suggested problems or question marks well or honestly worked out in the sense that there was really a number of round tables. I am very pleased that the discussion took place on the ground of teaching faculties, I participated in one of them myself, and that this feedback is also there. I see the order of career as a compromise, because there was talk about those degrees, there were talk, those who are watching it in more detail, you know, about the four-stage, but also about the two-stage. In the end, we have a three-stage. I think it is a reasonable compromise and that the adoption of a career order is a significant shift. I don't see him as a revolution or a panacea. Because there are countries that can be an inspiration to us and do without a career order, such as. Finland, and other countries have a career order a long time ago, so we will make it through to these countries by adopting it. I believe we'll bring them in a better way than some of our neighbors do. I also firmly believe the promise that has been made here by the Minister and distracts fears of bureaucracy. I also feared that we should not drown our career order in bureaucracy. I firmly believe that she means it, too, or we all mean that this doesn't happen. On the other hand, there must also be a way for one who does not follow the path of a career order so that a good teacher is appreciated and perceived. That's why I said it's definitely not a panacea or the only way. But it's a good thing we'll have this tool. There was also talk in the context of the amendments on the lack of teachers. I think that some other time than just discussing the law on teaching workers to point it out. It's a serious matter when we missed something important again. But I would more than want to deal with whether they are better qualified or unqualified, there are always exceptions from each side, denying attention and trying to create qualified workers. That should be our goal. And here I see the great task of easing attention and trying to balance the funding of teaching faculties that prepare future teachers. I appreciate that some steps have already been taken by the Ministry of Education or by the Minister specifically, or we are pushing them as a coalition, but we need to move on considerably. Because this problem can be really serious. In fact, he is already serious in some fields. And this matter needs to be dealt with immediately. So, thank you for the discussion, and I believe that we're going to make the career order the winning end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u37	I thank Mr Mihol. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the secretary's final words, maybe. The rapporteur. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u38	Thank you for the debate. I have carefully noted all the questions, and I would like to propose that I will, of course, answer them specifically to Members and Members in the framework of the discussions of the Education Committee, the subcommittee and, of course, separate meetings. Just allow me a few sentences at the end of this general debate. I'd like us to honestly admit that we haven't taken good care of education for the last ten years. And that right now we actually have to do three things at the same time, i.e. significantly strengthen the school budget, promote changes in school funding, so that the money goes where it is, i.e. towards the pupil, towards the teachers, towards the schools, and also to ensure the professional support of our teachers, so that is our big debt. I think that when we pay it back and do these three tasks together, then we can judge those who, in this system, under such sub-financing, educate our children in such poor conditions. And I think most of them do it according to their best knowledge and conscience, and please don't forget it. Finally, I would like to say that the career order of teachers concerns all teachers. It concerns teachers of public and private schools. Finally, I would like to say that our education, regardless of the fact that we are failing in international comparison, so given the way we treated it, most teachers and teachers have demonstrated superhuman performance and it is now up to us to achieve the hat trick that I often talk about together. And I think that we can still fight to have education so that our children have a better future to be successful. I think that wealth in the Czech Republic, in Czechoslovakia, the former, in the first Republic was in people. And I wish that we could make sure that this is the case for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u39	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Gold words. We will move on to the debate in detail. Mrs Anna Putnová was the first to enter into a detailed debate. [[It's a phone call from the diaper.]] The rapporteur is still interested. [[In a detailed debate.]] I'm sorry, rapporteur... You're so stealthy... So first with priority rights for a detailed debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Science and Education of 23 February of its 36th meeting on the Government Bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House press 959. The Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the reasoning of the Minister for Education, Youth and Sports Kateřina Valachová, Members of Vlasta Bohdalová's intelligence report and after the debate recommends The Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House press 959, as amended by these amendments. Please, the amendments approved by the Committee are 24. I'm not gonna read them here. I'm just gonna tell you, if you're interested in understanding what we're talking about here, it's House Press 959/3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u41	Thank you to the rapporteur. And now, the already announced Mrs Anna Putnová, for a detailed debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u42	Thank you for the floor. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which I have presented and is included in the system under number 5849. I would like to point out that, given that other amendments relating to teacher development have also been read, it will be possible that Section 24 will need to be renumbered as part of the next reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u43	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Petr Kořenek and his application for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u44	Thank you. I would just like to sign up for the amendments that are included in the system under numbers 5900, 5901, 5902 and 5922. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u45	I thank the very fertile Member. Member Karel Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u46	Hello. After consulting the legislation, I agree that the amendments tabled by me under number 5761 should be modified by legislation and thus inserted into the House of Press, which will be published for second reading, and I believe that its number will be 959/4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u47	I thank Mr Rais. Mrs Nina Nováková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u48	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to sign up for the amendment, which is under number 5906. However, I would like to clarify specific changes for the tapestry. In the first part of Article I, the present point 38 is in § 28d para. The following point (k) is added: the coordinator of the student self-government. In paragraph 3, the word " (k)'is added after the words "letters (a) to (d), (f) to (h). The following section 28o is added after Section 28n in Part I of the first article: The coordinator of the student self-government. The co-ordinator of the student self-government at the school identifies the appropriate conditions for the effective involvement of pupils in the life of the school in the form of involvement in the activities of the institutions of the student self-government and, in cooperation with the school management, creates these conditions in the school. The activities of the institutions of the student self-government, together with the pupils, are planned and coordinated. It provides and coordinates cooperation with class teachers, with the school principal, with the school board. It coordinates the cooperation of the student self-government with the founder.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u49	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Alena Nohavová and her application for a detailed debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u50	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I have made an amendment to the system regarding the surcharge for classrooms. He's under number 5530. This amendment addresses the surcharge for classrooms in a far fairer manner and proposes a supplement of between 5 and 8 per cent of the grade-highest-grade salary to which the teacher is assigned to all class teachers of primary schools, secondary schools and schools, higher vocational schools, conservatory, elementary art schools and the head of the higher-level study group for their work as a teacher. The amendment is based on the Labour Code on surcharges, such as the management surcharge. This also guarantees the valorisation of this surcharge, as the tariffs are increasing, so additional charges are actually increasing. Compared to the amendment submitted by the law, which makes a financial distinction between classrooms at the first grade of primary school and second grade, it is fairer in the sense that it is not clear who has more work with the sorting industry, whether a teacher of the first grade or a teacher of the second grade. It's just that the class teacher has to fill out all the documents and their scope, whether it's first degree or second degree or high school. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u51	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Karel Fiedler and his application for a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u52	I'll be brief. I am signing up for my amendment, which is in the House system under number 5889.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u53	Thank you. Member Jiří Zlatuška. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u54	Mr President, I refer to my proposal with the number 5842 as amended by the legislative rules of the Government.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u55	Thank you. And so far, the last one entered into a detailed debate, Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u56	I would like to sign up for the amendment, which says - in Article one point 40 in Section 29, the following paragraph 1 is inserted: (1) The career system of teachers lays down rules for the development of professional competences in order to enable the systematic development of the quality of education in the Czech Republic and the professional performance of the teacher's activities in accordance with the principles and objectives of education under the Education Act. The career system of teachers guarantees their professional development, their continuing education and the remuneration system according to the achieved career degree. The Ministry ensures the professional development of teachers through accredited programmes for further education of pedagogical staff. I therefore propose to delete a sentence from this point 1, which reads: "The Ministry ensures the professional development of teachers carried out through further training through a legal person established by it for the purpose of ensuring the professional development of pedagogical workers'. As I have already indicated in the general debate, the point is that regional centres have been established at the moment, or regional education centres already exist and work well. I am loading this amendment and it has not yet been inserted into the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-002-019.u57	Thank you, Mrs Ivana Dobešová. If no one else reports for a detailed debate, this is not the case, I am ending the detailed debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or, if necessary, the rapporteur. Not interested. Since I do not see any proposals that we could vote on, I am ending second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. And finally we get to the happier things and that's
