ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u1	42. The Government's Bill repealing Law No 99/2000 Coll., on the prohibition of supply for the Búšehr nuclear power plant /house printing 836/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 It is proposed that this printing be discussed in accordance with § 90 para. 2, therefore approved in the first reading. The Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek and the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. I will ask the Minister of Industry and Trade to take his place at the rapporteur's table, and I will ask Mr Vlastimil Vozka, who is the rapporteur for first reading, to do the same. Lady - No. Later. Okay. We can therefore begin negotiations. I will ask the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek, under the authority of the Government of the Czech Republic, to present this press. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u2	Mr President, honourable Members, given that the international community has abolished sanctions in the nuclear field against Iran, it is clear that the reason for which the law prohibiting all supplies to the Boushehr nuclear power plant has passed has passed. The Government therefore proposes that the legislation in question be abolished so that this legislation no longer adversely affects the export business sector to the destination. After the repeal of the law, Czech entrepreneurs, as already in other Member States, will be able to export goods to the area concerned not subject to control regimes freely and in the case of goods subject to control regimes under conditions laid down by Union law. As part of the effort to settle the conditions of Czech entrepreneurs as quickly as possible with entrepreneurs of other EU Member States, the government is proposing to the Chamber of Deputies to agree to the proposal at first reading in accordance with Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure. Finally, I would like to ask you to support this material so that we can jointly promote the assistance of Czech exports to this territory. I would like to stress that this law was a typical gold-plating, but gold-plating, it means unnecessary tightening of the conditions for its own companies, but perhaps the exception is that it was gold-plating not thanks to the European Union, but rather thanks to NATO allies when this law was adopted. Whatever the case, the conditions have changed, and at the moment there is no reason for its validity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will now ask the Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek to present his piece of the presentation report, because both ministers are in charge of the Prime Minister's letter of 8 June last year. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u4	Yes, thank you. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a brief comment on this motion to repeal Act 99 on the ban on supplies for the Bušehr nuclear power plant. I would like to remind you that in 2015, China, France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the United Kingdom, the United States of America and the European Union as well as Iran adopted a common comprehensive action plan, which was also adopted by UN Security Council Resolution 20 July 2015, and in relation to this Security Council Resolution, that was Resolution 2231, Iran's isolation in the nuclear area was terminated. The repeal of the Supply Ban Act for the Bušehr nuclear power plant is therefore desirable in view of the applicable regulation of the Council of the European Union. At the same time, the abolition of the law is in line with the international legal obligations of the Czech Republic, because the law that we are now repealing has not been adopted in the context of international sanctions against Iran. There was something else going on. The Czech Republic was not led by interest in the adoption of this law to prohibit deliveries to Czech entrepreneurs for the construction of the nuclear power plant Búšehr, but by fear of damage to the Czech Republic in the political, security and economic sphere as well. So the bill reflects the foreign policy situation mentioned. We are interested in working with Iran in the nuclear field, because if this goes well, it will strengthen international confidence. This is exclusively the peaceful nature of Iran's nuclear program, in which we want to participate. This is also due to the fact that we are one of the countries with advanced nuclear technology and we have experience in this area. [[12.30 hours]] I myself have visited Iran, and the Iranian party has shown great interest and also the expectation that this law will be abolished, because this law prevents cooperation from being initiated in certain areas. I think I can guarantee the House that the adoption of this proposal is indeed in line not only with our international legal obligations, but also with the interest of the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u5	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and give the floor to the rapporteur, Mr Vlastimil Vozka, who is the rapporteur of this press for first reading. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, there have already been many sentences in the Chamber of Deputies on the subject of the merit of this law. In the introduction, I would merely recapitulate that the proposal was sent to Members 9. 6. 2016 and the appellant proposed to approve it under the scheme § 90 para. 2 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The very core of the House's printing 836 concerns the Government's bill repealing Law No 836. 99/2000 Sb., on the prohibition of supply for the nuclear power plant Búšehr. In its explanatory memorandum, the Government states that this law was adopted in the context of international sanctions against Iran, which were adopted in the framework of UN Security Council Resolution 2006 and extended in 2007. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already explained here, in view of the abolition of those sanctions and following the 2015 resolution of the Council of the European Union, it is proposed to repeal this law. I therefore agree to express my consent at first reading under the scheme § 90 para. 2 and I would like to remind you that the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic also gave a positive opinion on this in a context which was already justified by the petitioner, the Minister. It is important from the observations of the Chamber of Commerce that the Chamber feels the reasons which lead to the proposal to abolish the law in question as correct. His acceptance is currently a competitive disadvantage for Czech business entities compared to foreign competition. In the field of nuclear technology production and downstream industries, a number of Czech companies or institutions of applied research are successful. For this reason, the President of the Chamber of Commerce also recommends the repeal of this law. Mr President, that is all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u7	I thank the rapporteur for his speech. I am opening a general debate in which I have Mr Zdenek Soukup signed up. And is Mrs Jana Černochová reporting with priority rights? Okay, that's not a priority right. Please, colleague Zdeněk Soukup. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a different opinion. I did not vote in favour of the Communists' proposal, nor will I vote in favour of the government's proposal. I have one reason for this: I do not want dangerous material such as waste, which is generated in nuclear power plants of Russian type VVR, to get into uncalled for hands. And that is what is at risk in Iran, as in other countries of the Middle East. You don't know what's gonna happen tomorrow. After all, the willingness to put untrustworthy partner in the hands of dangerous material is remarkable from another point of view. We recently adopted an amendment to the law here, according to which people dealing with fuel and waste must have a special security clearance in the Czech nuclear power plants. Pretty strict background check. So we are aware of the risks at home. The current report, yesterday's report, which I noted: Iran is testing a mid-range missile. This also speaks of many things. The rocket hit somewhere in the desert, it didn't damage anything, but it speaks for itself. What are the risks? It's very easy to make a dirty bomb from waste. I checked with people, experts who had something to do with it. After all, it is sufficient to disperse it in any way in a certain area. It's a weapon that causes at least panic, ideal for terrorist attacks. A few examples of their interest, I would say, some people, some forces about this weapon or this material. In 1995, Chechnya terrorists attempted to spread radioactive waste in Moscow's park Izmailovskiy. 2002: In the United States of America, a terrorist named José Padilla was arrested. A search warrant found the material to build a dirty bomb. A similar story from Great Britain, in which he was sure. [[unintelligible]] Already in the debate on the KSČM proposal, it was said that the Izraelec are showing some understanding of the reasons that will eventually lead us to the restoration of supplies for Bošehr. They may be in danger, but they say if we don't help build the power plant, there's someone else. I don't want to take advantage of that argument. Just friends, no matter how generous, don't do that. Please, I originally wanted to propose a rejection at first reading, but I won't. I want to give it a chance, but consider the reasons I have set out here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u9	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová, then Mr Gabal, with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. In accordance with Section 90 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I object to the ODS and TOP 09 parliamentary club procedure under Section 90. First of all, a procedural proposal. And secondly, thank you for your speech to colleague Soukupa, through you. I must say that I have a completely identical view of this matter, and I have raised those concerns on the Defence Committee, where we have also not been fully assured of what this will mean for our relations with Israel. When we took part in the delegation with the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Hamáček, in negotiations with the Izraelec, it is not true that the Izraelec would not be afraid of this and that they would say "we are glad that you are in." No, on the contrary. Those fears sounded very loud. We all know what happened on January 20, 2017. The U.S. administration has changed. American President Donald Trump is sitting in the White House. We know what his attitude toward Iran is that the attitude is fundamentally different from that of the Obamův administration. And I would warn of any hastyness in the decision-making process. That is why we have also proposed the veto, because, of course, its administration will have some time to decide how it will proceed in this area of relations with Iran. And if, as the Czech Republic, we are part of some collective agreements between the United States and the Czech Republic or between the Czech Republic and the European Union, I am thinking of the European Union and the North Atlantic Alliance, then I think it is appropriate not to push the sawmill and wait for what further developments in relations between states from the same civilization zone that we belong to, and Iran, what relations they will be in the future. So I think that no time is pushing us, and rather than deciding something that won't have such a positive impact on the Czech Republic, as some colleagues may think, so rather not decide anything at this time in this parliamentary term. For this reason, I repeat, I raise an objection to § 90 and please, on the contrary, that the time limit for committee discussions should be longer than normally laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u11	Thank you, Mrs Černochová. Mr Gabal, Mr Šarapatka, Mr Grospič and Mr Rujbrová's point of fact. I must give priority first, Madame, to electronic applications for factual remarks. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Let me just briefly reiterate the conclusions of the defence committee's discussions on the same subject of another draft, practically identical. The Defence Committee supported, firstly, the release of the embargo on the basis of President Drábová's statement, whether the International Supervisory Authority has any information on the violation or non-compliance of the nuclear agreement with Iran, when the answer was: The Board of Directors in Vienna has no such information. Two. We asked the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to what extent the matter was consulted with Israel's representative, the answer was positive. That means the information has been passed on. In my opinion - third, only interpretive. I don't want to talk too much about where the US administration is going or not. According to the pre-election concepts and consultations that I had the opportunity to hear in Washington, the fundamental aim of the new administration will be to control Iran's compliance with the agreement, not its abolition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u13	Thank you. Mr Grospič's point of order now. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room. Member Sharapatka speaks from the bench.]] I'm the one who reported you, Ambassador, you're in line. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me respond to my previous speakers and, in particular, to Mrs Černochová. It surprises me a little when the last law, which was from the KSČM workshop, was not adopted precisely because it was from the KSČM workshop, and it was sounded on the microphone, it can certainly be looked up in the tapestry, and the will was expressed that the government proposal has a high hope for it to pass, and today, again, there is speculation about the incalculability of the administration after the US presidential elections, which completely mixed cards and showed that there are still three power centres in the world, that is, Japan, Europe, possibly the Federal Republic of Germany, and the United States of America. The Czech Republic is therefore part of the European Union, but I believe that we should still argue that it is also, among other things, a sovereign independent state and can also defend its commercial interests and its foreign independent policy, which in this case does not cross with the policy of the European Union, or whether we will therefore proceed on the way that we will actually take full pride in the fact that the Czech Republic is a semi-colony bound to the commitments of the European Union, the Federal Republic of Germany, or the US administration.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u15	I thank Mr Grospič. Mr Šarapatka, now. Okay, he's canceling his application for a factual remark. I am therefore to conclude the whole general debate. Excuse me, Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová's application. I don't have you electronically, so I didn't notice you. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A little over a month ago, as a member of this House delegation, I took part in a trip to Syria. The Syrian partners appreciated very much, and I note that this is a similar combat territory to the one we are discussing now, the humanitarian aid of the Czech Republic, the fact that the Czech Republic is in contact here, that it has an embassy here. At each meeting, they did not conceal the fact that Czech entrepreneurs would take precedence after the war was over. I don't know if you know our grandmother's saying "two fights and the third laughs." Remember how we destroyed our own arms production so that those who did not advance in this way would replace us. So let's wait for our brothers in Brussels to do what our brothers in Washington do and wipe our mouths off again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Zuzca Bebarová Rujbrová. This has exhausted the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. First, the Minister of Industry and Trade. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must say that I find it disappointing to me the position of the TOP 09 and ODS clubs that need to renegotiate properly. We already had the opportunity to discuss because there was a similar proposal or almost the same proposal submitted by the KSČM. I would like to say that I also talked about this in Israel. Apparently, I heard things a little different than what my colleague Herman heard. First of all, why maybe there was an agreement that Iran gave up its nuclear program, which it apparently had, and had many centrifuges somewhere in the bunkers in the mountains, where it appears there were attempts to produce enriched uranium for the production of nuclear bombs. In Iran, such a thing happened, which is not fully explained, that, in some way, in the streets of Tehran, somebody shot up the right physics from this program. To this day, we don't know who's safe. But in particular, some hackers have succeeded, and again we don't know what hackers, to achieve that they've been infected with centrifuges, in such a way that on screens it was running that everything was okay. Meanwhile, the centrifuges were spinning and some crashed. And Iran understood that it had to agree with the international community. Now let's put aside why it happened and how it happened. Iran has agreed not to make any nuclear bomb attempts, there has been an agreement that it has the possibility of a peaceful nuclear program, and the International Nuclear Energy Agency, as Mrs Drábová has already been quoted here, monitors this. We should be quite happy with this development, because he brings opportunities for our companies, which, of course, supply for nuclear power plants, have great opportunities there. Thanks to the fact that we've been running nuclear power plants since the 1960s, the program here has a long tradition, we have experts here, so we have a huge chance to take advantage of this opportunity. Instead, here we are again witnessing self-punishment, which I do not understand, damaging the interests of Czech companies. This is gold-plating, the deal is over. It was accepted at a time when the idea was that we must capture what is not designated as military material, even what is not marked as dual-use material, at that time was not a catch all clause, that includes material that does not belong to these two categories, yet could be abused. So it's gold-plating, it's a completely useless law. That's why the only thing we can do with him is cancel it. As regards the nuclear fuel mentioned by Mr Soukup. Frankly, factual information is that Iran already operates and intends to operate the first block of the Bushehr nuclear power plant today. That means if he runs one block, two blocks, or three blocks, it doesn't change the risk of someone making a dirty bomb out of it. This must be controlled by other mechanisms. The mechanisms that the International Nuclear Energy Agency has. We're not really gonna help, because they already have that fuel today. If we don't get to the next block, second or third, we're not really going to reduce the world's well-being or the risks at all, but we're not going to. For these reasons, thanks to the disappointment that we have this veto, which, of course, I must respect, however, I would like to propose in a detailed debate a reduction in the deadline for negotiations from 60 to 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u19	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State. Please, Minister, then the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u20	Thank you. One more time, ladies and gentlemen. Sometimes it feels like we're trying to be more papal than the Pope here. Because I said here on purpose in the beginning how many countries have signed an agreement that is even consecrated by the Security Council resolutions. And that, you understand, is worth something! The United States, Russia, China, France, Europe, the United Kingdom - these countries have simply done a deal that is crucial to us. And it seems to me that it's not entirely clear what the meaning is. The point is that today we have control mechanisms that make us aware that Iran will not develop an atomic bomb. And when you deal with these reports, they all say those reports today, and I've really been getting to know that Iran is fulfilling its commitments in this area. So we really do have that certainty, don't we? We have it today. So whoever actually wants peace knows that this deal has a huge meaning for us. I think that anyone who gets to know these reviews will just come to the conclusion that it makes a lot of sense to us. And for me, all the countries I listed are signed on that deal, and nobody's gonna change that deal. I'm very sure of it. Because its significance to us today is huge. That's why I think we're going to start a debate here at this point about us actually waiting, or we're going to be more papal than the Pope... I repeat, this is where Minister Mládek said that the current control mechanisms are better than they were at the time when this agreement, which we want to cancel, was accepted here, the catch all system is really new, and it even allows us to control more than the suspicious things that fall within the area of dual use. So we are actually very well equipped today, and the validity of this agreement simply guarantees us some stability of development, a partner that respects commitments. The moment we think we're just gonna break it down, we're gonna find ourselves in a space where nuclear weapons are just gonna develop again where we didn't want them to. So that's our interest in keeping the deal. That's why I supported her. This is the moment of stability in today's troubled world. And we have this debate as if we do not want to understand that this agreement is a real success. I believe in the continuity of the policy of the United States of America, and I am not subject here to the feeling that there will be dramatic changes. I think that in a number of things, I would like us to be patient in this. I believe that we can renegotiate on matters of value, which can be verified. So I wouldn't make any big considerations about the changes, because I think that the stability of this agreement and its benefits are simply obvious and that all members will respect that. So let's stick to what we're paying for, and let's not try to create any other worlds here and act unstandardized. There's no point. And it really impresses me, and it's something that comes back often in our country, that we're really more papal than the Pope. Here's the deal we're part of, so let's follow it and act accordingly. I said that what we are proposing here today is in line with our international legal obligations, and what is more - it is the general interest of the Czech Republic. But of course I know that political opinions can be different, I respect that, but here I need to say strongly that this is our interest, it is our interest in a number of aspects, and we should respect that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u21	Now with Mrs Jana Černochová's priority right. With a point of fact, my colleague Chalupa.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Secretary of State, if anyone is more papal than the Pope, it's you. And it's you, and you've shown it quite clearly here when we were discussing a UN resolution that touched Israel in a very fundamental way. Then remember your words. Remember, or get a copy of what you told us at the time. So some of your arguments about the Security Council being a bunch of good people we all trust are completely misguided! The Security Council treats Israel in exactly the same way as it does the UN. And if you, as Secretary of State, support this, tolerate it, it's your problem, but don't talk about anyone being more papal than the Pope. First of all. Secondly, I would also beg the Minister of Industry and Trade, Mr Mládek, not to discuss any self-defense. Are you questioning, Mr Ministers, that Members of the Chamber of Deputies have a legitimate right to discuss the bill in due time? How dare you? How dare you even question the fact that someone under the Rules of Procedure will apply the veto for two deputies, and you're criticizing someone here for that? You guys didn't sit here last term? Isn't that what you were doing? We, as the Chamber of Deputies, are entitled to discuss the law properly, in three readings, so I beg that we should be reprimanded here for being rude and that we dare protest that someone wants to blow it out with one vote! This is about the core! This is really about things that, yes, as you rightly said, have been outstanding in the Czech Republic since the 1960s. Maybe there's a whole bunch of guys who are really good in their field. I'm glad you did. But please, nice, this is security we're talking about. We're talking about things that are very strongly linked to what's going on in this international area right now. You say: There was a proposal from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. Yes, he was. Six months ago. Six months ago, no one was aware of the outcome of American elections. If Mrs. Clinton wins, and if Mrs. Clinton wins, there will be a tendency to applaud Iran, or if Donald Trump wins, the tendency will probably be different. I wasn't in Washington like Ivan Gabal, so I don't have any information about what anyone was saying. I'm just wondering when the meeting took place, because the development in these relationships is quite significant. There are ten days when Mr. Donald Trump is the president of the United States, so there are many things that take place in public space. You all know that, I'm not going to repeat some of the things that somebody in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs might consider questionable, at least that's what they say in the media. So no more papal than the Pope. I think that the ministers, both Minister Mládek and Minister of Foreign Affairs Zaorálek, should devote more to economic diplomacy in the sense that our embassies, which are in a neglected state, in a pitiful state, some diplomats actually fall not residences, but representative offices where meetings should be held, meetings where economic diplomacy should take place, so they fall on their heads. Secretary of Zaorálek, have you been to our embassy in Baghdad? Why isn't Iraq your priority? Why is it Iran? Iraq is my priority! The Czech Republic is sending pilots to Iraq, we have L-159, we are very valuable there. We sent a surgical team there on a recent mission. You also remember the debate we were discussing that the engineers would still be joining the surgical team in the future. Why not? I think some colleagues from the Defence Committee have also been to Iraq to see. Why isn't Israel's Ministry of Foreign Affairs a priority? Why isn't Iraq a priority of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Why is the Czech Republic here subjecting itself to some desires that Iran may have, which - yes, you may remember, given your education, this country was an ally in the 1970s, 1980s. Do we really want to go back to that period? I didn't! And we're not really talking about selling cars or exporting agricultural products anywhere! We're talking about giving space to someone who can have the core, who can actually use the core against our civilization! And as my colleague Soukup rightly put it here, the tendencies are here, not that they aren't. And if you're saying that everything is actually okay and that the US administration isn't gonna change its mind... I, if I'm not mistaken, and please, if my colleague Soukup responds to this, what he described here has happened this week! I guess it was yesterday or the day before yesterday. The rehearsal. So you can understand that it's hard for an American administration to respond to that if something happens yesterday! [[13.00 hours]] So I'd like us to actually be here in the attic. The Chamber of Deputies did not trump whether anyone here is proposing any proposal to shorten the deadline actually used in absolutely exceptional cases, and it is not that the ODS or TOP 09 are overused by this institute, this right to veto the matter. We don't do this very often, but I don't like being reprimanded here and saying in some way that we are the pope's most pope when the pope is the pope himself. And it's unclear whether our ally is Iraq or Iran, whether it's Israel or Iran, whether it's the US or Iran. You don't know anything about these things! Take care of what you have, Mr. Ministers - industry, Mr. Foreign Affairs Minister! Invest in people. Invest in representative offices, let our diplomats work there in dignified conditions and do not disgrace our representative offices, even the residences of the Czech Republic! This is supposed to be your main task, not to reprimand someone here for wanting a proper consideration of the point--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u23	Madam, I will interrupt you because I have been approached by representatives of other MPs who have the same legitimate right as ODS and TOP 09. I have understood your statements, and since the speech of Minister Zaorálek reopened the debate, because I did not call for the final word, I understood the speech of Minister Mládek that he wished to open the debate and propose a reduction of the time limit for discussion to 30 days or even less, and I will not let that be negotiated again. In this respect, I have at least four factual points to settle. I interrupt this point by 2:30 p.m. when we decide on its continuation because we have fixed points there. Since there was a reason for both ministers to be present, I note that I am interrupting point No. 42 to 14.30 hours, when it will be decided on its continuation, by interrupting it in the debate to be completed, by expressing the factual remarks of Bohuslav Chalupa, Karel Rais, Stanislav Grospič, Petr Kořenko, by speaking to Minister Mládek, who has claimed priority rights, and then we will agree on the next meeting. In this respect, I think we have a deal, and we will continue at 14.30 hours. Thank you and I wish you a good lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u24	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. We should now have a fixed point No. 165 - that's excise duties. However, I was informed that my colleague, Vice-President of the House, who was in charge of the House before me, had interrupted until now. I ask the president of the MPs to make a deal. Minister Zaorálek reports with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u25	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot forgive myself for not getting out yet and for not responding to what was said here before the lunch break broke out, because I think the last speech was so chaotic and incomprehensible that there must have been a very confusing impression in somebody as to how it is with our foreign policy towards Iraq and Iran. I have to say at least a few things here that should be clear. First of all, I would like to point out that Iraq is the real priority of Czech foreign policy. I'm stressing Iraq. If we're talking about the state of our office in Iraq, I'd like to inform you that because it's our priority, we're doing a reconstruction of this facility. Reconstructing an object in Iraq, Baghdad, is currently an extremely difficult thing. But just because it's a priority, we're investing money in it. And I can assure everyone here that already, I suppose, in September, those who work there will be able to move into a reconstructed building in October. I assure you that ensuring something similar in Baghdad's terms so that we can meet those safety requirements is costly. It's the millions that cost us. Just evicting those people, placing them in spare capacities, in hotels. It's all an extraordinarily expensive operation. And it's all worth it because Iraq is our priority. And the fact that this is a priority for us, I could demonstrate this, on the one hand, by the number of meetings I have with the top representatives of Iraq. How many activities we are currently heading there, and not only in the field of foreign policy, also in the field of defence, etc. So it is quite easy to show that this is a country that we pay special attention to. I even have to say, from an activity point of view, much bigger than Iran, where we actually started the contacts. So for what has been said here, I feel the need to make it very clear that developments in Iraq and this country are the priorities of Czech foreign policy in the long term. And we don't regret investing money in order to create conditions there, even under very difficult conditions, for the work to be possible. But it's always gonna be hard there. Even if we reconstruct it when we reconstruct it, of course Baghdad is such a place today that it is difficult for every country, not just the Czech Republic, to ensure the elementary security and conditions in which it can exist. I'm not gonna tell you the details, but I do know that only 12 million is now worth, like, the cost of the renovation and the provision of the spare accommodation. These are really extraordinary means, and we need to work with the Ministry of Interior, Defence and others on this. But it's worth it. And then it seems strange to me here... it's like questioning the fact that we're dealing with Iraq because I've been focusing on Iraq for a long time. It would be easy to prove that in 2003 in this House, I was talking about the risk of what was happening when the attack was in Iraq, and I was pointing out here that there is a danger of a disruption of balance in this region. And it was an action in 2003, which caused the situation to get very seriously complicated there. That means, unfortunately, Iraq is the result of what happened here in 2003. And here in the House, I didn't have many allies for it. So I'm sorry that those who are such interested in the situation in Iraq didn't care about that even then. And that we here today - I hear a sermon on how important Iraq should be to us. I assure you, I've known for a very long time. That's why I was concerned about what happened years ago. Because we are reaping the consequences today. Yet, thanks to this, Iraq has become a very strong link to Iran today, which is becoming a huge problem. Or isn't it obvious here? What are we talking about here? It seemed completely confused to me. And I'm just as confused as the whole debate about the law that we're discussing. What's going on here? We have a law here that - I say it has only the right meaning to break it. And why do we want to cancel it? Because the terms that were the point of the law, they're gone now. The law is losing its meaning. What was the point of the law, please? If anyone realizes. He was the one who was supposed to prevent material from being delivered to a power plant. Well, the power plant was finished. It means, it's just... it's lost its meaning because the whole project is done. And the second thing was to put political pressure on Iran to be part of the international community's pressure on Iran. The pressure has evolved, and the result is that there's an agreement with Iran today. That the two reasons why the law existed - the construction of the power plant to fail, it fell because it was completed. And the other one - putting pressure on Iran, it came true, because the result is that we have an agreement with Iran today. So what's the point of the law? Do you understand? His purpose has completely disappeared today. It's just a law that's obsolete, it's useless and it's outdated. And what I don't like is that here, in fact, as if I couldn't reach out to what I find absolutely fundamental, is that there is an agreement between states, key states, key players of world policy today, which is even supported by Security Council resolutions. And do you understand? It seems very dangerous to question something like this in our world. If anyone here says "some sort of Security Council resolution, what good does that do us?" - That's what it is, my friends, that's a really brave speech. If you think the Security Council and its resolutions don't pay anything, you're questioning the last elements of the world order we have! And the people who were there... We have no other system to argue with. You may not like him, you may criticize him. You can say he's imperfect. Maybe that's all true. There's even talk of his reform. But as long as we don't do it, we have to take it as it is. Otherwise, there's just something that we still follow in this world. And it's extremely important. And it is also extremely important for countries like the Czech Republic to follow these rules. No matter how imperfect they are. Regardless, it doesn't work 100%. But I'd warn you not to question it. And if we have a key player agreement, if we have a Security Council resolution, we should respect that. [[14.40 hours]] And make no mistake by saying some words in some of those countries that say: we must look at it. The obligations of these countries apply. And they need to be taken seriously. I take the commitment of the United States of America absolutely seriously. The United States is in this serious partner that holds commitments, and I don't know anything about it not being true. And I can't believe it's gonna change! I have this experience, and I think they have to pay for this thing. As I believe, Russia, China, Europe, and all others who are signed will honour their commitments. And what's very important is that Iran is fulfilling its commitments in this area. There's no reason to question it. And most of all, I don't understand why we're going to such a dangerous game. Do you understand? We have achieved that Iran today - and we have it controlled - is not developing nuclear weapons. That's what we wanted. That's why we did it all. That's why the pressure and all that. We've got checks today that it's coming true. I said here that you can verify that it's actually true. And anyone who wants to start a discussion will get to know it. And we have what is very valuable - that someone is not developing nuclear weapons and has committed himself only to the peaceful use of nuclear energy. Well, that's worth it, and we should honor it, and not say we don't care, we don't give a shit, we don't take it seriously. I don't understand that kind of language. It seems irresponsible to me, and it feels like a bad debate in something. For a state like the Czech Republic, it must be true that the international order is something that we care about immensely. After all, countries like the Czech Republic will pay for this if there are no rules. We've already talked about Ukraine, disrespecting the international order in Ukraine during the annexation of Crimea. Isn't that important to us? Or do you think that in one thing you can rely on the international order and in another you can say that it is of no use to us? Well, such incoherence is incomprehensible. Then we're morons, not politicians! So I wish we'd taken what I said seriously. There's a signature of the key states, there's a Security Council resolution, and that's all there is to it, and it's being followed. And don't speculate that any country will do anything. It's a country that has a Congress that has senators, congressmen and presidents who will definitely get to know the situation. And I believe in the continuity of politics, that commitments will stick. If you've got a six-player deal somewhere, there's no way one can just testify, 'cause that's a six-player deal, not between two. That means I reject any questioning of this work of this agreement, the treaty that has been made between the states I have named and Iran, and I refuse to question it in this House. It's a dangerous game. This is bad foreign policy and this is not the interest of the Czech Republic!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u26	Thank you to Minister Zaorálek. With priority rights, the Minister of Industry and Trade. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u27	Mr President, honourable Members, I regret, for formal reasons, that we will not continue the debate on the Bušehr plant, but I must respond to Mrs Černochová's speech, through Mr President, of course. A colleague of the Zaorálek has said a lot. I'll just say a few words. I never questioned the club's right to give veto. That's all right, when two clubs hit 90, they got it. I merely said that I am very sorry that this is detrimental to the interests of Czech companies and that I will propose, when further discussion is made, a reduction in the time to 30 days of discussion and I firmly hope that this will be approved. I also do not accept Parliament as a whole, its individual members' right to self-punishment. Whoever wants to fuck themselves up, no matter what they do, but please don't take the right to tell me that when someone gets self-absorbed, I say it's self-absorbed. I have that right too, I'm one-twenty of the same sovereign as any other MP. Yes, and this attitude about the law is of a kind of self-punishment, which, first of all, does not help Czech companies, but also does not help developments in the world. A colleague of the Zaoralek has already said it here. The outcome of the action willing in Iraq was to strengthen the Shia majority and create a government in Iraq that is closer to Iran than any Iraqi government has ever been before. That's the net result of our Western effort. I don't want to judge this very much, but it must also be said that the Shia rule today, after all, they are a majority society. Before that, even the government that was nominated for the Sunni was at war with Iran. And we might not care that even in Iran, there is not an entirely simple internal political situation where there are still radicals who want to confront the West, and there are, say, technocrats who want to agree with the West. Of course, if we act like we're saying that it doesn't really matter what agreement Iran signed, that it doesn't really matter what kind of garniture there is, then we're just strengthening the supporter of the hardest line. And I do not think it should be the policy of the Czech Republic. She should be completely different. That means defending our own interests, and if, in addition to defending our own interests, we can help make the world a little better, let's do it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-009-042.u28	Thank you, Minister. My predecessor, Vice-President Filip, said that before the end of the negotiations, he had interrupted this point by 14.30 when we should have decided to continue it, which would have to become the Rules of Procedure, that we would have to vote on the fact that this is a particularly serious point, and that we would have to re-enlist it on the agenda. No one suggested such a thing. In that case, I am interrupting this point and we will continue with the fixed point
