ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-026-029.u1	29. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Protocol of Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, to take account of the accession of Ecuador /the House Press 1102/ - second reading Please let the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček take the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-026-029.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me give you a second reading to justify the negotiation of the Protocol on Ecuador's accession to the Trade Agreement with Colombia and Peru, which has been in force for four years, and there are many advantages to Czech companies. The Protocol on Ecuador's Access has been applied on a provisional basis since the beginning of this year, after being approved by the European Parliament and subsequently ratified by Ecuador itself. The full text of the Agreement shall enter into force after ratification by all Member States. I believe that thanks to the extension of the agreement on another country we will deepen cooperation with the entire region of the Andean Community and improve conditions for Czech companies on the Ecuadorian market. The agreement also liberalizes trade in goods and services and opens access for the European Union to public procurement. It also ensures higher legal certainty for Czech companies, which is an important factor in deciding whether to trade or invest in South America. Among the most promising sectors of trade are the traditional automotive industry and engineering, but for example recently the Czech company in Ecuador opened its own mini-brewery. Finally, I would like to add that free access to foreign markets is essential for the Czech Republic, whose economy depends on exports. We therefore consider strengthening trade relations with partners outside the European Union to be a priority. Therefore, I would like to ask you now to give your consent to the ratification of the Protocol on Ecuador's accession to the Agreement with the European Union. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-026-029.u3	I thank the Minister and the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mr Pavel Šrámek, to justify the resolution of this committee, which has been delivered to you as resolution No 1102/1. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-026-029.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Foreign Committee discussed this press at its 36th meeting on 12 July 2017 on a government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratifying the Protocol on Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, with a view to the accession of Ecuador. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade . Jiří Koliba and Karel Rais's report and following the debate by the Foreign Committee I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its consent to ratify the Protocol on Accession to the Trade Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Colombia and Peru, of the other part, in view of the accession of Ecuador; I. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic; III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-026-029.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a debate that I have no application for. If no one reports, I will conclude the debate. There is no interest in the final words and we will proceed to the vote on the bill proposed by the resolution. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 55 vote, 105 Members of Parliament registered, for 67, against none. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item, which was also interrupted for the absence of the Minister, is:
