ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another meeting on our 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Welcome, everyone. I'm asking you all to sign up with ID cards and possibly tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. I hereby declare that Mr Andrej Babiš apologizes for his absence from the hearing, for personal reasons, for Adam Rykala René Číp, for work reasons Petr Fiala, for work reasons Vlastimil Vozka, for work reasons Miroslav Grebeníček, until 15 hours Barbora Jelonková, David Kádner for the whole day, for personal Bartošek Jan Klán also for the whole day, until 15.30 for personal Jan Martin Komárek, for Helena Urban for the whole day Daniel Korte, for health reasons Jiří Koskuba, for Roman Václav for the whole day Josef Kott, for health reasons Jana Lorencová, Igor Nykl, for reasons of working reasons, without mentioning Pavlína Nytrová, until 11.30 he apologizes for work reasons to Tomio Okamura, for personal reasons for the whole Zemek. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, Pavel Bělobrádek apologizes from the government's members since 12.45 for work reasons, Richard Brabec for foreign travel reasons, Milan Chovanec for work reasons, further apologizes for work reasons Miloslav Ludvík and Robert Pelikán, for health reasons he apologizes Stanislav Štech and for work reasons Lubomír Zaorálek. My colleague Stanjura has a replacement card number 80. Further, further apologies have been received, for reasons of work for the whole day, by Minister Marian Jurečka, and Mr Marek Černoch apologizes from 8 to 10 o'clock. He also apologizes Roman Kubíček between 10.30 and 14.30 due to a doctor's visit. We will therefore focus on the agenda of the meeting. We should have on the agenda a contract from the block of second reading and also points from the block report, suggestions and more. Mr Jan Farský has applied to the agenda for the inclusion of the item. Ambassador, please come, I'll try to keep you calm. I will ask the House for a sufficient reduction in the level of noise so that Mr Jan Farský can make a proposal to amend the agenda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-000-000.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already tried here last week to propose the inclusion of paragraph 1138, which is an amendment to the Sales Recording Act. Unfortunately, there was a strange atmosphere, we all expected what would happen on Wednesday. I don't think that in that strange atmosphere, everyone may have completely listened to what was said here. I fear that the atmosphere of this kind may still be after the elections and that there will be no time for what this proposal contains. And it's extremely simple. Basically, it only says that the third EET wave to run on March 1st, and the fourth wave to be on June 1st, is to be postponed by nine months. Why? Most of the parties that are running for the Chamber of Deputies, including the petitioners, are talking about the necessary changes and adjustments, but there will be no time for those changes in real terms between the elections and March 1. What we experienced last week, long debates over extradition or non-release, is likely to resume after the elections, there will be debate about the coalition, about the government, the presidential elections will be addressed, and, meanwhile, hundreds of thousands of businessmen will spend a bunch of time and spend billions on adapting to the law to be applied from 1 March and about which most of the parties running here say they should somehow change. I know we're not going to find a match here on how to change it, or cancel it, but I would like to ask you here to support this simple realistic proposal, which only says that those concerned by this law should be sure and do not live in doubt that the most responsible of them who, after the elections, would agree to adapt to this law and, as of 1 March, to acquire new accounting systems, new printers, do not know that it was actually meant to be different and that they were buying something that they didn't have to, and that it doesn't have to concern them. I would like to ask you for five minutes of our time, because this is a law that is extremely simple, it's under number 1138, it's one vote, it's in an accelerated procedure where we can approve it today in the '90s. If you would give five minutes of your time to all the businessmen, all the entrepreneurs who otherwise will be losing hundreds and thousands of hours of time that they should otherwise devote to their activities. That is what I am asking you to do here, and I am asking you to put the 1138 House Press as the first item today. Thank you for understanding on behalf of all those concerned by the EET in the third and fourth waves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-000-000.u3	Thank you, Mr Farský. Roman Sklenák, chairman of the Social Democracy Club, is now reporting. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-000-000.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Unfortunately, I'm sorry, but I must disappoint my colleague Farský. I don't understand this step. It would certainly not be five minutes, so on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and YES 2011 I veto the inclusion of this item.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-13-ps2013-060-06-000-000.u5	Okay. It is therefore not possible to vote on this because there have been two membership clubs, and I do not have another proposal to amend the programme. In that case, we will consider paragraph 28 and that is
