ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u1	9. Proposal for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies I am opening point nine, which is a proposal for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and I ask the President of the Election Commission of Mr Martin Kolovratník to inform us of the candidates proposed, to introduce them to us and to introduce us to the next procedure for holding the elections. Mr. Chairman, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u2	Colleagues, colleagues, I wish you in today's or on a day that is still tense, good afternoon. Thank you for the floor and I would like to start the process of electing the President of the Chamber of Deputies at the moment. On this issue, I will state that the electoral commission, two days ago, on Monday 20 November, discussed at its second meeting a proposal for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies submitted by the parliamentary clubs and adopted, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Procedure, a resolution which has number 7. I note that the content of this resolution is only one proposed name, i.e. the only nominated candidate for the President of the Chamber of Deputies is Mr Radek Vondráček, who was proposed by the ANO 2011 parliamentary club. Under the Rules of Procedure, i.e. Act No. 90/1995, on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the President of the Chamber of Deputies shall be elected by majority and secret ballot. The choice takes place in no more than two rounds. And since there are a number of newcomers in the House today, the vast majority of the newcomers, so I ask for a brief patience - I will be brief, but I would like to say a few general words about how the election is going. The election committee has 200 ballots ready at the moment. These are accompanied by the stamp of the Chamber of Deputies with the text "Secret Choice" and with the paraphas of two electoral commission verifiers. The ballot shows, as I said, in this case the only candidate for the vote and is marked with a serial number. When we interrupt that point and announce the election, the secret election will take place in the State Act, it's the space across from the hall. Every time, the logistics is done in the same way, and it will take place throughout the term of the election after all the elections. Members whose surnames begin with letters A to K are placed in the left front, in the left side of the room, and Members whose surnames begin with letters L to Z, respectively. Uh, to the right of the room. That's where you'll be picking up your ballots. Since there's a lot of new people here, I'm also asking you to tell the workers your last name when you pick up the ballot to speed up the process. After that, you will move to the voting room, where the screens are prepared for marking the tickets and the ballot boxes. This is an important moment. Only those ballots which are adjusted according to the House's electoral order are valid, by expressing your agreement with the candidate by ringing a serial number before the candidate's name. I should add some more, or maybe she'll cut herself in the name of other candidates if there's more. So you're going to show your will, whether it's that way or that way, and that's an important moment, that you're going to mark the number that's before that name. I know I may be smiling at the face of some of you right now, but really often there are unnecessary mistakes in this system that your will, whether it is this way or this way, will not be shown that the ticket would be invalid. So I repeat, you have to mark that number. In this case, it's going to be the only number, and either you make a ring on it, or you cross that number out. And even here, in the case of the ballot patterns, as they should be marked, they're available at the dispensary. Last update. In the first round, the President of the Chamber of Deputies will be elected a candidate who will receive an absolute majority of the Members present. If the candidate does not receive an absolute majority of the Members present, the second round shall take place. On the date of the second round, possibly the second round, we would have to agree with the presidents of the MPs. Should the candidate not even be elected in the second round, a new second election will take place in accordance with Article 3 (18) of the Rules of Elections of the Chamber of Deputies no later than 10 days and would therefore start again with the first round. The choice would include new candidates. This means that clubs would have to submit new proposals to the Chamber of Deputies. At this point, this is all organised by me at the beginning of this point, and I am asking the President to open a debate on the proposed candidate for the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u3	Yes, I do, and I open the debate. I have one application so far, and that's President Kalousek's application, I see the President of the Pirate Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The honourable Member, honourable Members, setting up a meeting, and in particular the election of the President of the House, is a constitutional act which is closely linked to the constitutional acts following, because when we are established, the Government is obliged to resign under the Constitution and subsequently the President of the Republic appoints the Prime Minister, who is based on the results of the elections. And no one is questioning that he is a representative of the YES movement, no one is questioning that the YES movement has won the election and that it has the right to rule. But it has always been good practice if the winning party did not have, and it has never had, an absolute majority, so that it has always announced not only to the public but also to the Chamber of Deputies and, in particular, to the President of the Republic, with what majority support it will rule in the House, whether it will be a minority government or a coalition government. That is why it has always been a very good practice for all three presidents of the Republic to ask the winner of the election to present in some way - most of them wanted signatures, but it was not necessary - to present in some way 101 or more votes that would allow his government to rule. It was the practice of President Havel, it was the practice of President Klaus, and it was the practice of President Zeman as well - in the case of Prime Minister Sobotka and most of the Chamber of Deputies supported by the designed Prime Minister Němcová President Zeman always demanded 101 or more signatures. In this case, for the first time, the President of the Republic has resigned from this practice, saying that he will not demand the 101 or more signatures, and so, in fact, none of us, including the public, seem to know with what support the election winner will rule. If the President of the Republic, for whatever reason - I think we can look for the motive in the early presidential elections, but perhaps the President also had other reasons - when the President of the Republic for some reason has already decided to withdraw from his own practice and from the practice of his predecessors, presidents Klaus and Havel, I believe that at least this information should be requested by the Chamber of Deputies, because that is the authority that the government is based on, and which the Government of the Czech Republic has been confessing throughout its mandate. It is difficult to request this information other than when electing the President of the Chamber of Deputies. The President of the Chamber of Deputies has always been, and from the logic of the matter it has always been, and will be, a representative of the majority that has allowed the government to rule and gain confidence in the Chamber of Deputies regardless of whether it was minority government or coalition government. [[14.40 hours]] We have heard many times in the public debate that the natural right to the President of the Chamber of Deputies is the winner of the elections. Well, it's never been that way in the parliamentary past, and it can't be from the logic of the matter. If we take the seven cases of the Czech Republic from the previous elections, in four cases the President of the Chamber of Deputies was not a representative of the winning party in the elections and in three cases he was. Of course, the majority who wanted to ensure government rule always made sure that it was a representative of the majority, but it was never the rule, rather the contrary, that it was a representative of the winning government party. I will give the most typical example that the Czech public still remembers very much, and this is an example of the 1998-2002 opposition treaty when the election won the social democracy of Miloš Zeman and agreed to support its minority government with the Václav Klaus Civil Democratic Party. The agreement was made before the House of Deputies was set up. Václav Klaus, as the representative of the other strongest party, was elected President of the Chamber of Deputies and subsequently all ODS Members allowed the government to gain confidence. For all those four years, the ODS members argued that they were opposition, and we all knew that we really were opposition Members and the whole public, that it was the opposition that was just plain to the eye. I say in the eye and I would like to thank Mr Michálek, who recently found an expression that seems much more precise to me, namely the expression of quasi-position. So there was a government party, there was a quasi-position that allowed the government to rule, and then there was a real opposition. And it was admitted, it was declared. We are now at the threshold of a project that is unprecedented in modern Czech parliamentarianism. We are on the brink of a legitimate election winner and the president of the Republic saying: we are counting on a government with no confidence more or less for an arbitrary long time. We've all been to interviews with Mr. President, we've all heard that the election winner gets not only the first try, but also the second try, and we've all heard the President's opinion that there's no such dramatic difference between a government without trust and a government with confidence. It is, frankly, a complete denial of constitutional practices and, I believe, of the Constitution's meaning. And here I offer a comparison with the Federal Republic of Germany. President Babiš likes to set an example of German parliamentary practice, so I would like to take the liberty now to lay the example against this process that we are now doing. Chancellor Merkelová, after two months of suffocating, not pretending, has indeed failed. That means she couldn't put together a majority. And imagine he's not going to see President Steinmeier and he's not going to tell him, Mr President, he doesn't want to create a majority with me, either on coalition government or on the support of minority government, so let me rule without trust, because I am the winner of the election. First of all, she won't even think about it, because she's a Democrat, and she knows that even if she did, President Steinmeier would fire her with that idea. So the negotiations continue. They cannot do otherwise because they have a democratic constitution in the Federal Republic of Germany. We've got one too, please. Only it's being interpreted by Mr. Zeman and Mr. Babiš. That means, they say, "So what? So it's just gonna be government without trust here. A few months, maybe a few years, depending on how it goes. Some political scientists and constitutional lawyers call this approach a constitutional coup. I do not want to be so sharp, but I want to say in any case that if we accept this procedure, we will absolutely resign to one of the main constitutional roles of the Chamber of Deputies, namely the control role of the House, which the Government of the Czech Republic is responsible for. Because assuming we have a single-color government, a government that takes over all the powerful segments of power, including the secret services, and doesn't aspire too much to gain our trust, we don't even have a control instrument. We can meet, we can settle, but that's about it. Because what stands and falls on the relationship between the Chamber of Deputies and the Government is a constant threat that if the government behaves the way we don't like it, we'll say no. It's just not possible to express distrust of a government that doesn't have that trust and that doesn't get too inspired by it. So we're not going to be the Constitution designated by the government's supervisory authority, but we're just going to be a well-paid staff of uncontrollable power. This will happen at the moment when we elect the representative of the ANO movement, the President of the House, without fully knowing what the majority will provide for this government's trust and therefore also control. President Michálek, before the election of the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, has said a few things here that have very much addressed me. Let me quote him. He said: In fact, what has been said here repeatedly is that there is a government of the ANO movement with the support of the KSČM and the SPD. So now comes the crucial vote, says President Michálek, where we will see which political parties form the block that the parties to the ruling coalition will set up their chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. So the citizens will see it now in this crucial vote, which completely exposes how the government will probably function for the next four years. You see, he, President of the Chamber of Deputies, has infinitely greater individual powers, more important to the government than any chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. That is also why the President of the Chamber of Deputies has always been a representative of the majority that allowed the government to rule, unlike the chairmen of the mandate and immunity committees, who were mostly from genuine opposition parties. Because there's no threat to the government. But the President of the Chamber of Deputies does. [[14.50 hours]] So I take the liberty of using the words of President Michálek and saying, "Now it will be exposed, now it will appear." The election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies will show what is the majority that wants to support the project of Mr Zeman and Mr Babiš of a long-term government without trust and control by the Chamber of Deputies. If, after some time - and I do not allow myself to guess what it is - the winner of the election will be able to gain confidence, then, of course, from that point on, those who have made it possible to gain that trust will be held responsible for the government of the election winner. However, in the meantime, all this time, and he will probably be long, when we will be ruled by a government without trust and without control, so the responsibility for all the steps that the government will take without trust in state administration, in secret services, in security forces, in state companies, in public equity companies with state participation, will be borne by each of us who elects an ANO representative today by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And please let us all be aware of this, because it is. That is the only step we can take to prevent the government from ruling here without trust and without control. If there are really eight political factions here that say they don't want such a project that they don't want a monochrome government without trust, then there's enough damn us not to allow it. In order to allow the winner of the elections to rule - I repeat, no one is questioning this - only after he has secured the proper trust and control. But none of us who will vote for the President of the Chamber of Deputies today and must be aware that he is opening the door to the realization of the Zeman-Babiš project, then he cannot say that he is an opposition party. At least for as long as there's no trust in the government. During that time, each of us will be responsible for the election of Mr Vondráček today. It's just a simple fact. Like the ODS from 1998 to 2002, she kept saying that she was a party to opposition, so we all knew that she wasn't, because she was involved in the executive power. Just by allowing the monochrome government to rule. So, as long as the government of Andrej Babiš does not have confidence, the opposition will not be those who will vote for Mr Vondráček as President of the Chamber of Deputies today, because now they have the only way to prevent it. Then they won't be able to stop it. Then they will be able to say flaming opposition talk. But that's about all they'll be able to do. Therefore, each of us behind this committee - the elections will be secret - should in my opinion answer the question of whether the Zeman-Babiš project wishes and wants to support it by choosing Mr Vondráček or disagree with him and therefore does not allow it to be implemented. There's enough power here for those who say they don't want it. But I don't think there's enough power here for those who want to prove it by their actions. Then there's some considerable contradiction between words and actions, but that's probably the question of each of us's conscience. If Mr Vondráček is elected - I assure him that this is not really personal on my part, I would speak the same way, even if it were any other representative of the winning party in the elections - if elected, then we enter the regime of opposition treaty number 2. Once again, there will be a minority government, and once again they will be eliminated from the process of significant control mechanisms that the Chamber of Deputies has over the government. I just want to say that the opposition agreement 1, Klaus-Zeman, was significantly more fair and moral. That's where the majority confessed. She said, "This is how it's gonna be, this is how it's gonna be." And we're not ashamed of it, we think it's right. But in the regime of opposition treaty number 2, if Mr Vondráček is elected, it seems that the courage for such a confession is not that everyone will say: "This is not the way it is, we are the fundamental opposition. Except they made it possible to implement the project that they verbally criticize. So that's how it's gonna be. It will be the opposition treaty 2. Much more unfair and highly hypocritical than the 1998-2002 opposition treaty. It is up to you, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not you want to join the opposition agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u5	I beg President Michálek and Mr Filip will be prepared after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just wanted to remind Mr Kalousek, through you, Mr President, that we are now not voting on the government's trust. Whoever supports this government will be shown in the vote on trust in the government. For example, by leaving the O.R. or supporting the government, etc. Now we are voting on the President of the Chamber of Deputies, so that this body can begin to work, because without the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the process that predicts the Rules of Procedure, which is the law, as you know. So if the President of the Chamber of Deputies is not elected today, the negotiations will be dragged out, things will be postponed and no result will be made. Among other things, by not electing the President of the Chamber of Deputies, we would also block the decision on whether Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek are to be prosecuted. I'm not saying the decision should be made one way or another. But by not being elected president, we would have blocked this decision, and instead of a new government named on the basis of election results, there would have been a government that had earned confidence back four years ago. So the alternatives, the two options that we will now decide in this vote, are that either a single candidate will be elected to the President of the House, or the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies will not be established at all, and the Chamber of Deputies will not work. We have said that we will be constructive opposition, and we will be able to do so. And that, of course, is different from the case we had here earlier, which we had here this morning, because those two alternatives were there. There was a clear opposition proposal for the election of Mr Gazdík. But, of course, that's where the election winner agreed to support several smaller parties and put his nominee there. So these situations differ that the alternative here is only to block the Chamber of Deputies. That is why we do not support this proposal. At the same time, I assure you, through the President, that we have repeatedly declared that we will not in any way support the government of YES, which, if necessary, should also support the KSČM or SPD. We don't even want a government without trust, which is the script. I honestly or realistically do not believe that such a thing would be possible in a democratic country, and I assure you that we would use all the means that the constitutional order of the Czech Republic gives us. Finally, I would ask a single candidate for the position of President of the House to come before us, to use the right to speak, and to present himself to all the Members who are here, and to briefly present his vision of how he intends to exercise the constitutional powers that he will have in the event of his election. It's not just a question I'm interested in. The third attempt. I also want to ask you, for example, how to draw up a programme or a draft agenda, which is in its exclusive competence on the basis of recommendations from the Organising Committee. To simply introduce to all the Members who will vote for him how he will perform this function and to answer any questions that will be raised here from the plenary. I think that this is basic decency, and it is part of a good political culture that the candidate for a position will be introduced and this basic information will be communicated to all his electors. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u7	There is now one factual point, Mr Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u8	Thank you. Allow me to respond to my previous speaker. Of course, we know that we are not discussing the government's trust that we are voting for the President of the Chamber of Deputies, but there is no government's confidence in the game either. After all, there is a project in play that we have heard from the President of the Republic and from the mouth of the winner of the elections that the government will rule here relatively long without trust. That's the project we're either gonna allow or we're not gonna allow. And we will allow it if we elect the President of the Chamber of Deputies. So it is not possible to say, through Mr President Michálek, 'I do not want a government without trust here' and at the same time allow it, because then all the constitutional steps you are talking about will be of no use to you. For a constitutional suit, you need a constitutional majority of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate, so then you can talk flamingly, but there will be government without trust, and there will be government without control, and we will be just a well-paid staff of uncontrollable power. There is no way we are going to be a full-fledged Chamber of Deputies. That's the project we're playing for, and now each of us has the responsibility to decide whether or not he wants the project to be implemented. Nothing more, nothing less. I am happy to believe that you do not want to express your trust to the government of Andrej Babiš, and I do not think that you will ever do this, but in any case now you want to allow the implementation of the Babiš-Zeman project, long-term governance without trust and without control. And that's what you're gonna do. Then - I dare use your term - you're just the quasi-position. Then there's no way you can be opposed. And it's the decision of each of us behind that platoon, not just individual political factions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u9	Now I have three more factual points. First Mr Kopřiva, then Mr Černohorský and then Mr Martínek and then Mr Polanský, fourth technical.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, fellow citizens, I would like to ask Mr Vondráček through the President, because he has committed himself to promoting points of State reconstruction and anti-corruption measures, if, as President, he has an impact on the inclusion of points in the House's meetings, he will allow the State's reconstruction and, where appropriate, its priorities in the areas of State reconstruction and anti-corruption measures to pass through these measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u11	Mr. Cernohorsky.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u12	Hello, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would like to ask Mr Vondráček, through the President, how many Vice-Presidents you will propose, how you will designate the first Vice-President and how you will determine the next ranking of the Vice-Presidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u13	Thank you. I'm just going to point out what a factual point is. A factual point serves to respond to the course of the debate, not to ask new questions or arguments. I let your previous speaker perform, but please, if you want to ask the candidate a question, please apply with a proper application. Thank you. Mr. Martínek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add to my colleague Michálek, who had a question about the third attempt. I would like to ask, through Mr President, if... [[Noise and laughter in the hall]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u15	I'll let you finish. Just please, for the future...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u16	Okay. So I would like to ask the candidate if, in the third attempt, he would be able to appoint a person who would be convicted of a crime.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u17	In fact, Mr. Justice Minister, then Mrs. Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u18	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to respond to Mr Kalousek's speech. He really didn't choose the German example happily. First, Germany, as it is known, was elected President of their Bundestag right after the election, without any clarity as to what the majority would be, because, as he rightly said, it is not clear to this day. First, after the negotiations failed, the German President announced that he would appoint Angela Merkelová as Prime Minister again within about 14 days without having secured any majority, with three attempts to find the majority in Parliament, and if the three attempts fail, the German system is different in this - the president may decide whether to announce a new election or to let her rule for the entire parliamentary term without the Bundestag's trust, while the president said that he did not want to declare a new election. So I guess this example really wasn't one of the best choices. Otherwise, I would like to say in the rest of the time that we should free the Constitution from some of the deposits that have arisen in the meantime and which, in fact, deny Parliamentaryism in our country, and that is precisely why the presidents often designed the premieres and wanted them to provide a clear majority. In fact, our Constitution wants the appointed Prime Minister to look for this majority within a period of 30 days, and that deadline is there deliberately, so that there is no longer a time when there will be a government with us that has no confidence, because if everyone respects the Constitution and its spirit, there are only three attempts and then there are early elections. Everything else is a fantasy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u19	Mrs. Němcová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u20	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I want to respond to what has been said here from the mouth of the representatives of the pirát. If they call on a single candidate to come here to present himself as President of the Chamber of Deputies, to say what he intends to do with his high constitutional capacity, I wonder that, even before they heard these answers, several times, ten times a month after the elections, they declared that they would simply support Mr Radek Vondráček because he would support him. And that was it. So I don't know what they need any more performances for right now, because if you want to judge whether it is for you a person who corresponds to the third highest constitutional function in the Czech constitutional system, then you already have deeds here. You do not need to build on any promises and visions, you have heard on the first day of the House meeting that Mr Vondráček supports the less-membered mandate and immune committee and therefore a large part of the House, i.e. small parties, will be eliminated from deciding on key issues. You have today seen his vote, supported by the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee despite what was said earlier. So if you want to move forward, your actions serve you, and you have them here to make that decision. If you want to build on some windmills, Mr Vondráček will certainly put a few of them up here and you will get out of the responsibility you have as voters in this election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u21	Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u22	Mr President, fellow Members, I would respond to the words of the Minister of Justice. If I'm not mistaken, after a third unsuccessful attempt, the President of the Republic doesn't have to announce an early election. I think he can. I don't want to argue, you're a lawyer, I'm not, you're the Minister of Justice. I believe that it does not have to be that, and at that point, the government here, without trust, can really continue. So in this, the German system is similar to us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u23	Mr. Michálek. Still factual points. Really, Mr. Ambassador? Properly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u24	Just a brief factual comment on the speech of my esteemed colleague, Mrs Němcová. I just wanted to add that, of course, we talked to Mr Vondráček, we met him personally, and we asked about those things, but in this world, there are really not only politicians sitting here in this room, but there are also citizens who are watching the negotiations and want to know how Mr Vondráček will perform that high function. So I think it is perfectly logical not only for those who have not dealt with Mr Vondráček, but also for all citizens, Mr Vondráček introduced himself and answered the questions. I think that is a perfectly reasonable logical requirement, and the real parliamentary culture is that whoever is running for a high constitutional function does, however, present a vision, in some way introduce himself, say what he wants to do. The government has some kind of programming statement. And if we have a government here with no confidence, it is logical that we want to know how it will perform its duties after the House President. And that's it. And we want the citizens to know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u25	Thank you. [[Towards Minister Chvojko.]] Is that factual? [[Minister Chvojka: He wants to ask.]] Mr President, it is either a factual point and you will be a third, or it will be a proper application and you will also be a third. But at this stage, President Kalousek has the floor with a point of fact, followed by Mr Hájek. [[Once again to Minister Chvojek:]] With priority rights, you'll also be third.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u26	The Minister of Justice here said a beautiful sentence: Three rapid attempts, and if the third attempt is not successful, then the early elections are. Everything else is a fantasy. If that were true, I may not be so urgent, but we were all at the President's office in Lany and we are noticing his public statements. So we've heard that after the third failed attempt, he'll think if the attempt is unsuccessful, whether or not he'll dissolve the House and whether or not there will be early elections. At the same time, he also made a promise, I assume, to his constituents, because he is before the presidential elections, that if he is the president of the Republic, there will be no early elections. So these are no fantasies, through the President, Minister of Justice, this is a completely real project that the President of the Republic is pretending to be here in cooperation with his ally, the winner of the elections, and we think it is the House's duty to prevent this project. We may be in a minority, perhaps the House wishes that Mr Zeman and Mr Babiš carry out their project, and that will light up not the election of the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, but the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. So the real opposition picks up the ballots to participate in the election, not to lower the kvorum, but they don't throw them in the urn anymore, so no one can tell us that the election was secret, and you voted for Vondráček anyway. No, we're not voting for him. Not because we are bothered by Mr Vondráček, we will not vote for him because we do not want the implementation of the Zeman-Babiš project, which we consider dangerous, harmful and at the border of the constitutional coup.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u27	Mr Hájek, Mr Ferjenčík after him. That's still factual.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u28	Mr President, colleagues, when the team's political training is taking place here, I will also allow myself a drop in the mill. Minister Pelikán here rightly spoke of the Constitution as three attempts. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek said there's a word for it. In the course of this training, I would say that 120 Members can also dissolve the House. That means this Constitution has a solution. The YES movement has 78 Members, 122 is here. That means, if you're unhappy with the opposition, and after a third possible attempt, the president wouldn't decide, then you're in charge, Mr. Kalousek. It's in your hands! 122, and they're early elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u29	Please contact my colleagues through me. Mr Ferjenčík, then Mr Fiala and then Mr Kalousek - still factual remarks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u30	Thank you for the floor. I just made one comment on the hypothetical scenario that Mr. Kalousek is haunting. The whole scenario expects Mr. Zeman to be president again. And the pirát certainly don't want Mr. Zeman to continue to be president. [[Fun.]] And we are sorry that Mr Kalousek is here now campaigning for President Zeman's election, because if he let him serve in peace, he'd be far worse off in the campaign than when Mr Kalousek, with the support of 5.3 percent of the citizens, is the biggest man against Mr Zeman. So I would ask him to stop haunting this scenario, which may not happen at all when we give Zemanův's opponents a chance to succeed, but unfortunately, Mr. Kalousek, with his actions, reduces the chance significantly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u31	President Fiala and then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u32	My de facto relates to the speech of the Minister of Justice and his German example. I would not like the impression to come from the authority of the Minister of Justice that perhaps in Germany it is the same as in the Czech Republic and that Chancellor Merkelová will simply have three attempts and the Federal President will do what he wants. The German system is diametrically different, Minister of Justice. It is based on the chancellor principle that provides a high level of protection to the government. This is something the Czech parliamentary democracy does not know. But in the German system, the first choice of the Federal Chancellor is, of course, on the proposal of the Federal President, but if he fails, the second choice is on the proposal of the Federal Assembly, and if the candidate proposed by the Federal Assembly fails, the third election is chosen not by an absolute majority, but in certain circumstances proportional, and then the Federal President has the opportunity to leave the candidate elected by the minority in office or to announce new elections. So it's in Germany. The system is diametrically different from the Czech Republic, based on another logic. And I don't think it's entirely fair to tell us that nothing's really going on here if we had a government without trust and if Mr. Babiš had three attempts just like that, because in Germany, it's also the case. In Germany, it is not, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u33	President Kalousek and then President Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u34	Thank you for the floor. Mr Ferjenčík has successfully launched a campaign for the title of the greatest joker in the House. If Zeman is elected, it's Kalousek's fault. [[Fun.]] I've heard things before. Of course, we may both wish for the change at the Castle, Mr President, but we must quite really believe that the risk of the current President defending his position exists here. We can't say it's zero, just because the pirát don't want it. So if we're really counting on this risk, and we've heard President Zeman's statements, we're not scared, but we need to draw attention to the risks that will start when we elect the chair of the Chamber of Deputies to be the nominee YES. That's just the way it is, and you can deny it a thousand times that it isn't, but it just is. And, of course, through Mr President Mr Hájek, we do not have it in our hands. If we had it in our hands, Mr Vondráček, President of the Chamber of Deputies, elects the 78 Members who want to rule and cannot vote for the 122 who claim to be the opposition. And if he's gonna vote for more than the 78, they're not gonna be opposed to that government project without trust. These are those who, for the time period when the government will rule without trust - and I stress again, the President can imagine it for a few years - so for the project it will be those, for that time it will be those who supported this project. So, of course, we don't have it in our hands.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u35	Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. If I hadn't made a point of fact, I would have asked my colleague Vondráček how he understood the Institute of the Third Trial. Because we talked about this at our parliamentary club, and I am of the opinion that the Constitution does not fully think and does not think that if someone fails in the first and second attempts, then the same person should be automatically appointed in the third attempt. It is clear that if someone is appointed as part of the first attempt and does not pass and, as President Zeman declared publicly, the same person will be appointed as the second attempt and he will not pass, I would be interested if I did not have a factual remark, the position of Mr Vondráček as he would have acted. 'Cause I've been reading two of his interviews lately in Echo and Weekly, and I don't really get it there. I would therefore like to know if I did not have a factual comment from my colleague Vondráček, whether he would behave more like an envoy of YES, Emissar ANO, an attorney of the ANO movement or rather as a representative of the House as part of the third attempt, I would consider that correct. This means what would be the position of colleague Vondráček in the third attempt. [[15.20 hours]] Unfortunately, it is not yet clear to me from his public statements how he would have behaved, but I now see him as the very emissary and representative of the ANO movement, which I think is wrong. This means, for me, this is very important, as is the case with our entire club, and I would like to know if I did not have a factual point as to how Mr Vondráček would have behaved. Or I'd like him to answer, maybe he doesn't need a microphone, but maybe he can whisper it in my ear if he's embarrassed. That's my big question. I think it's crucial to how today's choice is going to go. This means a third attempt, and it is very important, in my opinion and in the opinion of the ČSSD club, it is not automatically assigned to the person who has failed in the first two attempts. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] It's so wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u37	Mr President, this was a very sophisticated attempt to circumvent the Rules of Procedure, but I will draw attention to all the following, that I will insist on complying with Paragraph 60 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 1, 2, 3 and the powers given to me a little longer in paragraph 3, that is to take away the word, I will apply it. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u38	Mr President, colleagues, I will use the factual point of view. I would be interested to know what constitutional means the pirát want to use to prevent the emergence of a minority government without trust. The only constitutionally possible step I see in not establishing the House. That's the only way I see them. I'll take my advice. Second factual point. If you brake the car downhill and let it go into a crowd of people, there's something very difficult to resist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u39	That was the last point of fact. We will now move into the area of performances with priority rights. First President Filip, after him President Babiš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u40	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, I have a message, but I do not see my colleague Kalousek here so that I can give him a message through you. I'm in a public appearance, it's not a rumor, it's not even a denunciation, he called my colleague Kalousek a professor of demagogy. I quite insist on it, because he can express his things very effectively and in a way convincingly for others. But I don't understand his position here. I'd like to share it with you. He is a very active man, and here he has accepted the role of a completely passive MP, who will say something here, but he will leave, as Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek said, the decompressed car to crash into people. Please, we are a parliamentary democracy and the President of the Republic can't really do what he wants! I see nothing wrong with the fact that the representative of the election winner is going to be the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I understand my colleague Kalousek, now I don't turn to him, now I'm turning to you that after so many years, he's still concerned that for the first time in history, at that time the KDU-ČSL representative was eliminated from the government. So he really can't forget the opposition agreement. It's just something so disastrous for him that she hasn't met with all of history. That's why he reminded me of this place. This is not about any opposition agreement No. 2. The point is, and it has been said here several times, thank you, Mr President, to Mr Hájek, for reminding us that the YES movement does not really have 81 Members, but 78. And I do not see it at all that, under certain circumstances, there are no 120 votes on the constitutional resolution on the dissolution of the Chamber of Deputies, where there is nothing else left for the President of the Republic. So some kind of crying on this soil - it doesn't suit my colleague Kalousek. I don't know who he's trying to influence, if the 123 new people who are sitting here don't know him yet, unless they've read some of his performances before in the media. He's not gonna talk to me because I know he would have organized the first last one here. Finally, he showed this morning that he was terribly sorry that he hadn't created the four-block before the elections, as he proposed in 2016, and that they would have had 80 Members. His wishful thinking may be interesting, but in my opinion, it does not concern what we decide here. It concerns whether we want to drag the House's organs here as in 2006 and therefore keep Bohuslav Sobotka's government still in power - we can do that, really, if we act like Kalousek did here, we will do it. In the end, you know well that the longest period when the government of Jiří Paroubek, whom Mirek Topolánek hated so much, was due to the fact that the Chamber of Deputies could not be slowed down. That was the time when nothing else could be done until, in August, after three months after the election, we discovered that it was possible to agree in some way on what was going to happen. Yes, of course there was a new government, and it also ruled without trust. Mirek Topolánek was not successful in the first attempt either. President Klaus has also declared in advance that the second attempt is given to Mirek Topolánek. I don't know what we're doing here. I can vividly imagine that if the newly elected President of the Chamber of Deputies had it been for the third time, he would have wanted to do so himself, that he would have put at least eight against himself, if not nine members of the parliamentary clubs, and that he would, of course, have put the whole political grémium against himself. There are indeed 122 people here who can adopt a constitutional resolution. That's the first moment. The second moment is the one - what is Mr Kalousek talking about here? Please, what if the script is completely different and the agreement between President Babiš and Miloš Zeman does not exist? I don't know about her. Mr. President didn't tell me anything about her at our political party meeting in Lany. I don't know if he said that to another Prime Minister. I mean, the script could be different. If we delay the Chamber of Deputies, our first concern will be, and I hope it will be the same concern for everyone, the state budget. I hope no one here dares to question this priority. But the next priority, and there I must support the Minister of Justice, is the 30 days when the government must ask for trust. And what if Chairman Babiš does it faster? What if he doesn't use the 30 days? And what if he uses those three attempts to make sure there's no confidence in this place at all, but to provoke a new election in the spring of next year? You know what he thinks? I don't. That, in my opinion, is a much more realistic scenario in which those who are trying to demagogically explain something here and not to see it from another perspective can come across in a way that is unbelievable. And I have to say here that as Chairman of the political party, I will be reasonably unhappy as another political party chairman of the fact that there will be extraordinary elections, and political party leaders know very well what I am talking about. In this respect, please stop this demagogy and do not listen to the professor of demagogy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u41	President Babiš and the President of the Election Commission will prepare himself. Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u42	So hello, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I didn't have enough time to write down what would happen, because I don't know myself. I'd just like to remind you, I think President Filip has known the history longer, I've only known the history since 2013. And today we are voting for the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And there's one candidate. I really don't understand what Mr Kalousek is proposing to this debate. Does he have another candidate? There is one candidate, which we are supposed to choose so that we can finally start working, because this House has started very badly. I thought it would be better, but it looks even worse than before. And we need that state budget. We need, yes, we are, this government, and here's a functioning government, raising pensions for next year, significantly, by 475 crowns, proportionally, even though we wanted everyone the same, but well, and giving money, increasing salaries to the people we need for everyday life. And I don't understand what we're talking about here. I would like to remind Minister Chvojka through Mr President 2013. Back then, we weren't as prepared as the pirát. Pirates, this is gonna be so much fun, I see. We didn't even hit the door, we didn't even know what was going on, but on Sunday morning, the hashmen were ringing at my house and saying, "Not with Sobotka, do it with us." I say, "How do I do it with Sobotka?" He's the chairman. Well, that was the coup. I don't know where Mr. Kalousek went, but I think he went to refill his dose to get the water. [[Laughter.]] It's a shame he's not here. That was a coup. It was a coup. And we said, "No, we'll deal with Mr. Chairman Sobotka." Well, I, then naive, inexperienced, stupid, unfortunately politician. Do you remember, Minister Chvojka, what percentage did you have then? 20.8? And we were 18.9. And we thought we'd say, "Come on, we'd like the chairman, 'cause the difference is only one percent." Well, I didn't. I didn't. And you had the Prime Minister, the President of the House, the President of the Senate, etc. So I don't understand what this is about. A colleague of Stanjura's 27. 11. 2013 gave a speech, we all know it, we support it, we opposition ODS, to the President of the House of Hamáček, because they won the election. Then think about it. What kind of theater is this? I know you're upset about the election. I know you want to stop us from forming a government at all costs. So we'd like to elect the President of the House today. And why are you talking about the third attempt? Why are you talking about him? I don't understand. Mr. Chairman Fiala, I call you once again, come with us to discuss the government. We've got 103, come on. I'm ready. We're writing a programming statement, we told you, and you said no, no, no, not a hundred times. And the Pirates. I thought they were all I.T. guys. I mean, they're gonna help us. There are 8,000 IT systems. It costs us $25 billion a year, $125 billion worth of money. You're all talking about digitization, Estonia, how people don't go to the authorities. Well, that's what we want to do. So if the pirát come with us to the government, we have a hundred. Well, maybe somebody's gonna leave, I don't know. Then don't tell me about the third attempt. Why are you talking about the third attempt when there wasn't one yet? Why are you doing this? Am I acting as some kind of potential prime minister here today? No. Today we are voting for the only candidate for the House to finally start working, Mr. Vondráček. So what's the third try? Why? Maybe we'll come up after the second try and say, "Okay, well, if it doesn't work, then let's go to the early election. In October, with the communal, we will spare, folks. I don't have a problem with it, I like going out with people, and it works. So what do you want? You all ran for opposition before the election with your program? Here are the parties that all wanted to end up in opposition? Wow. We wanted to go to the government to start working. I know that if Babiš was Prime Minister, it would be hard for those ministers to push them to work. I don't know what's going on. I'd just like to say that there is no Babiš-Zeman pact. Where did you get that? I made it clear that we do not want to rule in a minority government without trust. Why? We don't have a problem with that. If we don't agree, then let's agree to dissolve the House, and the President can't actually speak into it, as President Filip said. So I don't understand what's going on here. We've given up on everything. You're still making a fool of us. We're entitled to two Vice-Presidents of the House, I repeat. We said, "No, we'll give it up." We have dealt with each and every one of you specifically. And if Mr. Faltýnek didn't say it here, the ODS said four times at the meeting that he wanted the school committee for Mr. Klaus, and we said, "Yeah, we're writing it down. And defense for Blacky. Yeah, we're writing it down. And constitutional law for Mr. Benda, our legend here in the House. We're writing it down. We wrote everything down. And Benešík gets for KDU. What kind of drama have you been playing all morning? I don't get it at all. So please, I understand that you're upset, the election went bad for me, too, I was upset Saturday afternoon. Where's my colleague, Feri? Left there. So he got that Kalousek to the House, unfortunately, so we didn't get rid of him and we're gonna listen to him here, his stupidity and his demagogy, for a long time. [[He's laughing.]] [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] It's a trauma, but hopefully we'll survive it. So let's really try to remember what happened. We're doing the right thing. Faltýnek called the meeting. We're discussing the committees. Try to wait for the President to say he's gonna put the winners in charge. And we won the election. Yes, I understand that Mr Kalousek wants to prevent it, the pirát would like to put us in prison with Faltýnek, preferably tomorrow, that's probably more important than the budget, so I look forward to having them read the file they're gonna pry. So we're voting for the president of the House. So let's vote for him and start working, and then I'll come up with a proposal when the President puts me in charge, and I'll address you again. We clearly said that we would start from ODS and gradually act all the way down. What you're trying to say all day today is that we have some kind of coalition with the KSČM. We don't. Not even the SPD. But they were the only ones who came to the meeting and said, SPD, these are our programming priorities. KSČM told the media before she told us. We don't have a coalition with anyone. Then the pirates gave it to us, the 20 points, and we're ready to discuss it. Then why do you say there's going to be a third try? How do you know? Maybe it won't. Maybe a second time - I don't know. Maybe we can make a deal and let it go, it's better we work, not just talk. So let me ask you, let's try to be constructive, let's vote Mr. Vondráček as president, because I think he's serious, he's experienced, he's Vice-President of the House and he's got a good reputation among you, so don't make it political. The election of the President of the House has nothing to do with the third attempt. Maybe it won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u43	Mr Feri has the floor now on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u44	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I would like to begin by thanking my colleague Babiš for the kiss of death. However, in my point of fact, I would like to address, at least briefly, the speech that President Michálek has spoken here. He mentioned constructive opposition, i.e. elect the President of the Chamber of Deputies so that the Chamber of Deputies can function effectively. As if the Chamber of Deputies could not, or the President could not be elected without the vote of the pirate party. In view of the media presentation, it turns out that Mr Vondráček will have the support of YES, SPD and the Communist Party, i.e. he should be elected by a comfortable majority of 115 votes. Where's the constructivity? I would like to address Mr Michálek through Mr President: where is this constructivity? Where is he? Why are you voting for this? If you can't explain it, then it's not a constructivity, then it's just a service. Thank you. [[With a view of the light board:]] I made it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u45	Thank you. There is no other factual fact, so please, with priority rights, the chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u46	Well, the tapes, that's a thing! I quoted from 2011, Mr. Andrej Babiš quoted my 2013 speech. I said, that's a thing! So for colleagues who are new here, anything you say can be used against you, and it will definitely happen. But I'll start with what Mr Babiš mentioned. It was a little different at the time. There was a clear government majority, there was a government, and we were in opposition. The government majority of those days came up with a candidate for President Jan Hamáček, and we as an opposition party had two options. Either we vote no, or we support him. We decided and I then interpreted the opinion of our club that we would support Jan Hamáček, who at that time did not need our votes - we did not trade it for any support for another post, we did not get anything for it - because I was convinced that Jan Hamáček would be chairman of all Members of the Chamber of Deputies and not just a government majority. Now I'm gonna do something that I expected his former colleagues from the government coalition to do. Well, I would like to, Mr President, although I know I would like to thank you for the four years. [[Nesroz.]] I think you were indeed the chairman of all the Members of the Chamber of Deputies. I, as the chairman of the opposition MP's club, apart from about the two severe clashes that we had, but that is, as the classic says, as much as twice in four years or once in a while, that can be endured, so thank you and I will be happy to remember that period when you were at the head of the Chamber of Deputies. And even though we have waged a battle between the government and the opposition, I think that Jan Hamáček has honoured the constitutional function of the third highest constitutional officer. I'm sorry that his former colleagues didn't say it, and the opposition chairman has to do it. And now for today's election. For colleagues on the pirate side. I'm used to it, and I'm not okay with it, and we've often been asked ministers to answer questions. They kept their mouths shut. Very often. Honor to exceptions. It wasn't all of them, but the vast majority of ministers kept their speeches to the so-called. the final word of the petitioner so that Members can no longer respond without priority rights to their appearance. In other words, as President Faltýnek said this morning: Here, say what you want, it will be as we want it to be. So don't be surprised when you call on a single candidate for office, the third highest constitutional function, that he just doesn't come to the microphone and answer your questions. He'll say it wasn't customary. That's right, it wasn't customary. But I don't remember any of the members of the Chamber of Deputies demanding it. Today the application is and we'll see if Radek Vondráček is going to pass, then after the election, he'll come to thank us, and then he'll tell us what he's thinking. But he's gonna have that Empire chair in his pocket by now. I'm interested in a few things, too. And practical. And I will not talk about the first, second, third attempt, but about what might affect the President of the Chamber of Deputies. What will Radek Vondráček do if the government, any government, asks for a state of legislative emergency? Is he gonna talk to anyone about this, or is he gonna decide for himself? I wonder. Secondly, you say he's very experienced. He hasn't been there for a year, and everyone knows how to run a meeting. This office is gonna set it up very well, see how they keep the papers, and now they're reading it. So it's a great privilege that someone's been running it for a few months... Anyone who sits there on Friday will definitely make it in two or three weeks. There's nothing hard about it. What is difficult and what is not simple, and the debate should be moderated by the new President of the Chamber of Deputies, if we are able to change the customary rights that are in the Chamber of Deputies. I remember when I came here in 2010, I haven't been here as long as some people think I am, so imagine things like this, we didn't even know who's reporting for the debate. It took me a year to get through this. We got the paperwork, we didn't have digital material, and it took two years to change it. And I don't think the creators of the Rules of Procedure had any idea what would happen to factual remarks. We're only about the fifth point of the term, and we've had how much? 30, 40, 50 factual points? And it's not that it's a defense against priority rights. So it's up to the gentlemen's agreement of us, representatives of individual political clubs. I wonder how Radek Vondráček wants to handle this. Not after he's elected. I hope he will abandon the idea that he would reduce the priority rights of the opposition. I remind you, the government, every minister has priority rights. Today there are 17, maybe 15 or 14, it's 14 priority rights. On top of that, the President of the House, Vice-President of the House, and then every club, two. This means, when you calculate how many preferential rights a government has and how many oppositions it has, even in this Chamber of Deputies, it will have a much larger number of preferential rights a coalition or a government, monochrome, multicolored than the opposition. I know we're pissing you off, but that's what we're here for! We represent our constituents. And where else are we supposed to formulate our political attitudes, our programs, our values, our ideas than here? And I know that Radek Vondráček said several times, and I was so sorry about him, he said, "They're the little ones in the back and they still want something." Okay, well, the four little ones, as you ridiculously say, got just 100,000 less votes than you did. One and a half million to 1.4. So tell those 1.4 million voters, we don't care what your deputies say here because they're so tiny. So, with the big guys who have 100,000 more votes than you, let's get our heads straight on what we're... [[Nesroz.]] I wonder how the new President of the Chamber of Deputies will behave at a time when the fundamental treaties of the European Union will change. And parliamentary diplomacy is often more effective and effective than government diplomacy, because it is much more open because it is not so official. What is his idea of the role of the Czech Republic? What does he have in mind about how we will gain national consensus on what Czech national interests are? Where does he want to go? Where does he want to find allies in Europe? Whether it's gonna be around us, whether it's gonna be neighbors, or if it's gonna be different? If he prefers the Eurohujer faction of liberals in the European Parliament. Many do not know this, but the YES movement is in a fraction that really wants the European Federation. Who wants to accept migrants who promote mandatory quotas. There are YES representatives in such a faction in the European Parliament! That's not what they say in Brussels! I don't think they should be ashamed. They either hold the views they say in Brussels, whether they say them at home or those who say them at home, no matter what they say in Brussels, I don't care. So I wonder if there will be a meeting of the Presidents of Parliament, whether Visegrad or the European Union, what values Radek Vondráček will hold, what programmes, what proposals for change. I wonder how he evaluates cooperation with the Upper Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic. Like good, satisfactory? Whether he wants to make a difference - yes or no? We probably won't know any of this because Radek Vondráček has decided not to perform. I don't have to ask him how he's gonna vote on his bosses. He is to be elected dneska and will be elected. And yesterday, I read such words as the third highest constitutional officer challenges the work of law enforcement authorities. When we discussed this in September, I said so ironically here: "This is not a good time to ask, you say another time. And I said, "Wait a minute, after the election, it's not gonna come in handy because he's gonna be Prime Minister. It's happening! It's not a good time again, is it, Mr Vondráček? It's suspicious again, the police. [[President: Through me.]] Through Mr President. So let's think about it in a month. That wouldn't work again. We're going to vote on trust! It's not a good time. That's definitely a political attack. And this is what the next third highest constitutional official of the Czech Republic says. How are citizens to believe in the state and independence of justice if the future President of the Chamber of Deputies does not trust them?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u47	I am only for the other speakers if they wish to use similar arguments - Mr Vondráček is enrolled in the debate, so he will be given the floor when it comes to him. President Bartošek, after him Minister Jurečka and then Mr Vondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u48	Thank you for the floor. Personally, I regret that the candidate for the President of the Chamber of Deputies will not answer such essential questions. [[Laughing part of Members and applause.]] Is it logged in?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u49	Yes. I thought you could hear me. I have announced that Mr Vondráček is a member of the debate. He's third at this stage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u50	Excellent. In that case, I'll add my questions. I wonder if, in the case of the election of Vice-Presidents, SPD candidates and KSČM candidates will support. I'd like to know the answer to that. And I have one more comment. You may have heard Petr Pithart's interview. He spoke very beautifully about the risks posed by the minority government. And he's there very nicely - I suggest you turn it on - talking about the fact that minority government is a huge corruption tool. The minority government allows the rest of the Chamber of Deputies to blackmail e.g. through positions in the state administration, through the implementation of the program and through many other things. And one of the things that we repeatedly say is that we want to make it clear what the majority government is - and the winner of the election has the right to do that, and we fully respect it - is that the majority government means the stability of this country. And in order for this country to prosper, to be credible to its foreign partners and, above all, its foreign investors, it needs to be made clear that there will be and has been an effort for four years to be a stable country. Because a minority government involves a huge amount of instability. This too is the responsibility of the winning party in front of the citizens of this country to ensure stability and security for the four years to which it has obtained its mandate. You can say a hundred times that today's election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies is not about trust and establishment of a possible government, and I am telling you that it is about it. Today's choice, that's the key to the city gates. The moment you open those gates, then the locks are much smaller and you allow the city to be plundered. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the reality. That's just how it is, and it's connected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u51	I beg the Minister of Agriculture and Mr Vondráček after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u52	Thank you. I am very glad that President Babiš has performed. I appreciate that. I would perhaps even prefer that he say something more specific about his idea of how the first attempt to form a government is thought through, because he just told us that he didn't know himself, and I think that after five weeks it would be worth saying something more about this in front of the Chamber of Deputies. But I understand that trust in the new government is not the point. However, I am also glad that the questions have been raised here - and many of them I also have on my mind, and I will be glad that Mr Vondráček will answer them. I think it'll make things more clear when it sounds here, not just in an interview with some media. But I have to say, the questions that are being raised here have their reasons. Because, contrary to the situation four years ago, the situations we could call the standard ones were that, in fact, at that time, the one who was in charge of drawing up the government when he came to the House and voted for the President of the House and the leadership, it was clear where the government coalition was. And it's more or less something we don't have here today, and I think it raises a lot of legitimate questions. We don't want to prolong it. For KDU-ČSL I must say, we are aware of the election result, we know how it will turn out today, the declarations are clear for the majority for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, we are not discussing this. However, there has been one interesting thing here from President Filip that I have marked: the President of the Republic cannot do what he wants. Well, I would've believed it before. But if I look for example. To the situation surrounding the appointment of professors, Mr. President here doesn't respect the law at all. Unfortunately, the legislators didn't assume that the law said there would be a president who would refuse to appoint a candidate who would do anything by law. This is the first example where the president does not respect what should be done. The second example is a clear decision of the court in the case of Mr Peroutka, a journalist. Once again, the president does not respect what is legally given, guaranteed, the decision of an independent court. He also does not respect the foreign policy of this country's government, a government that has confidence when talking about Crimea. So that's a few things where I really have to stand up. And I have great doubts as to whether we can say here in this House that the President of the Republic cannot do what he wants. That used to be a good habit, but it hasn't happened in five years. I want this House to start working. We have a budget, I want us to deal with erecept, it's a problem for doctors, I want us to deal with EET, so we can look at the conflict of interest law, so that in the fall of the municipal elections, we can have anybody to run for office in this republic. That's a lot of homework we've got ahead of us. So I'd like us to start working. Just please also for the rest of us who are not part of this emerging coalition if some of these questions were answered to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u53	Now I have two factual points. Mr Kalousek and then Mr Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u54	Thank you for the floor. Just one question to respond to what my previous speakers said. The representatives of the pirát said how important it is for us to establish ourselves, because it is important that we release Mr Babiš and Mr Faltýnek's masters for prosecution as soon as possible. Therefore, I would very much like to ask Mr. Designed President of the Chamber of Deputies Vondráček if he could say how he will stand in the vote on this issue. I think this is very important information not only about the position of the future President of the Chamber of Deputies, but also about the position of the pirát, what they really care about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u55	Mr. Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I was here this morning talking about not lying here in this Chamber of Deputies. Minister Jurečka, don't be angry with me, do you not respect the decision of an independent court as a constitutional officer? What are you talking about, the president of the Republic didn't name professors? The court that those two turned to, the third didn't turn, and Charles University decided he didn't break anything. Look, I may not like this or that, as I do not like some of the Constitutional Court's findings or decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic, but I respect that. So don't say things like that around here that he's broken something. And as far as Krym is concerned, I can quote. I'm sure you'll keep your point of view, but on the other hand, I have to share the opinion of the President of the Association of accredited lawyers for interaction with public authorities in the European Union, Christian D de Fouloy, who said that, in accordance with Section 10 of the Constitution of Ukraine of 1996, Crimea had a separate legal status based on the legal rights of the nations. A in accordance with the provisions of § 10 para. The Crimean Republic is also under the jurisdiction of the Autonomous Republic of Crimea to organise and hold local referendums, and perhaps the topics of these referendums are not limited to the Crimean parts of the Constitution. - And I'd have to quote all nine. So this association of lawyers with the European Union made it clear that the referendum in Crimea was rightful under the Constitution of Ukraine, and therefore their decision became logically legal and independent. Whether they joined or didn't associate with someone after that was just their autonomous right. Please don't say things that are long gone. That demagogy has really been enough today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u57	Indeed, Prime Minister Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u58	I promise and I will keep it for the last time today. However, no one calls into question the right of the President of the Republic to appoint Mr. Docent Ošťádal as professor on the basis of the Constitutional Court's finding. The Constitutional Court said it was his right. However, the President of the Republic has justified this move by not being able to appoint Professor Professor Ošťádal for his contacts with the State Security. On the other hand, he happily declares that Agent Bureš, registered in the Institute of National Memory as a proven agent at the level of Alois Jirásek, because he is led there in at least twelve volumes, will be able to appoint the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. So here, there's just the obvious incoherence of the President's argument, so it's unbelievable. And there is only one thing that can be done about it, Mr Ferjenčík, through Mr President - simply to replace the President, because he only acts in the interests of his own goals and does not care if he argues consistently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u59	There is no further factual point, so I will ask Mr Vondráček, who is the last person to sign up for the debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u60	Let's see if I can stay last. Dear colleagues, for the three quarters of a year that I sat in that chair and drove the meeting, there is no worse introduction to any speech than "I didn't want to perform." So I'm not gonna say it. The truth is that during that period after the elections to this meeting, I was interested in going over some of the steno records of earlier meetings, and, like in 2013, my honored colleague Jan Hamáček, sitting behind me, also spoke after the election, so I was convinced that I should not perform. But what happened was the pirát discovered my weak side and politely asked me. We agreed I'd get off because they really asked me nicely. There's something else when President Stanjura comes forward, and I respect him very much, but he's just acting out as he's used to, that he basically insults me four times at first during the post and then asks questions. Well, I'm only gonna answer the polite ones, if you don't mind. In case I forget any from the pirát, I will answer them with a factual remark. You, as far as I know, were most interested in the third attempt. And I say - that may not even be Radek Vondráček's answer, the answer lies in the Constitution and in the way the authors meant the Constitution. And the President of the Chamber of Deputies is not an individual who can freely deal with the proposal. I firmly believe that this is an expression of parliamentaryism and that the proposal put forward to the President of the House must be based on the House and must be preceded by some negotiations and some great likelihood that a government will be composed, because it is the last frontier before the pre-election gap under certain circumstances. Today we have heard that it is possible to interpret the Constitution in a creative way. I think early elections would be logical. We have also heard of the dissolution of the House. Before my turn, the discussion took place to a large extent. So I certainly wouldn't name anyone arbitrary, no random passerby. And just as President Babiš said - where did you come up with the third choice? I am also firmly convinced that this will not happen at all, and we are discussing the subject of hypothetical, which I am happy to discuss, but at this moment the priorities of the House are a little different. Then a question was raised about the number of Vice-Presidents. As part of the bilateral negotiations of our negotiating team, which I am part of, the number of five prevailed. And even in the statement of the representatives of individual clubs in the media, I noticed that no one has a major problem with number five. Only the SPD was made clear that it was an unnecessary number. I am of the opinion that if there are nine parliamentary clubs, so in case of an increase by one, which is the number that has been common in the past, there were also three, there were also six, but also several times five, so I think this is an appropriate number for the round of proceedings of the meeting. Then I should have introduced myself. My name is Radek Vondráček, 43 years old, I offer my experience in managing this honored assembly during the last term of office. And despite the stickers that were made here, and despite the various attacks, I think they're convincing actions. So let everyone evaluate the way I treated my colleagues at the moment when I was in charge of the meeting, the way I represented the House on the outside, the way I acted all the time. When I was going over the stew records from the past few years, mostly after the election, each chairman highlighted some priority or challenge that awaits the House in the upcoming parliamentary term. I remember that, for example, Minister Zaorálek, who is here, pointed out the role of Parliament that he considered joining the European Union as the greatest challenge at the time when he sat on the chair of the President. In 1992, the biggest challenge was the imminent division of Czechoslovakia, the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics. For myself, I think that the greatest challenge of this parliamentary term is the fragmentation of this Chamber of Deputies, polarisation of opinions, personal antagonism, the inability to have a constructive debate and dialogue between them. And with respect to each of you, because each of you was sent here by a voter, you were sent here by voters, each of you has the right to have his space in this House and to perform, so you also got the votes to establish dialogue and to find a consensus on how best to promote the interests of the Czech Republic and the future of the Czech Republic. And my ambition if I get the right trust is to be the guarantor of a fair discussion in the House. The sentence of Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk was several times heard on this microphone and in the previous parliamentary term: Democracy is a debate. These walls are not the end of the world. There's people out there, they're looking at us, we're under scrutiny. And it's all the more challenging for us. If you remember, next year we will remember a hundred years since the creation of a separate Czechoslovakia. I quoted Tomáš Garrigu Masaryk. I am simply convinced that the House can be a place of opinional conflict, even sharper and more aggressive. I'm used to it. Some of you will still have to get used to it. Maybe we can shift the culture and ease the clashes. So I fully respect that, the conflict, but I have the ambition to lead the House so that we respect each other and I can guarantee a fair discussion. After the first two days of negotiations, I'm not sure it's too ambitious in this House. But I promise you, I will do everything I can to treat each other like this, because no one here has a majority. And only by making a deal here can you achieve something else, that's all there is to it. So, can we do this together? I'm ready to perform like this now, all the time. [[Member Kalousek gestures from his place.]] And that space will also be given to President Kalousek, and he knows it, through the President. [[with a smile]] [[The speaker is leaving. A round of applause for a part of Members. The speaker returns to the microphone.]] I'm sorry, there's still a question for the State Reconstruction. I've been working very closely with this group over the past period, you know that. A number of anti-corruption measures have been implemented. I'm not ashamed that I'm still meeting them and we're dealing with an agenda. There are still some things we haven't completed, like the nomination law, the Supreme Audit Office. Personally, I'm interested in discussing the issue of whistleblowing. Surely it is time, given that there are still various speculations on the subject that some financial groups here influence the legislative process, so at least some basic rules of lobbying. I am prepared to discuss the law on the State's Attorney's Office, or amendment to the adoption of the new Criminal Code, because this is one of the things that the Group of States of the GRECO still blames us. For the first time in the whole time that GRECO may have rated us, we had a more favourable assessment, it was not purely negative. We do not do this for the assessment of a GRECO group, but politics is sometimes about symbols and really the fight against corruption never ends. I was convinced of this in the United States, when I visited three states, and each state overtook who had the greatest corruption and who had been arrested there. In the state of New York, for example, the President of the Senate was arrested. And we were just discussing it with the prosecutors. So corruption is a never-ending struggle. I agree with some of the countries of Reconstruction of the State and we have already agreed that I would like to be involved in this process. [[16.10 hours]] As far as the inclusion of points is concerned, I would like to point out that the points are to be classified by the Organising Committee. I'm not pretending that the President really can and should have an impact on the materials. And I would like to participate actively in the creation of the daily House of Deputies programme. If you are familiar with the program of the YES movement, we have explicitly stated that we will give space and opposition proposals, because there are nine of us here. And since the opposition is not really one opposition, but a few oppositions, it will be a huge job, but we will always have to meet, set priorities for the opposition, set priorities for the majority and possibly the ruling minority, which, once again, is slipping into speculation, which is being pushed by someone else here. In short, Parliament is a debate, I feel that way. It's all I can tell you about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u61	Thank you. Did Mr Bartoš stáhnout? [[Member Bartoš speaks from the bench: My question was in order.]] But you've downloaded a point of fact, that's important. Chairman Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, we have one thing in common with President Babiš - sometimes we fail to keep our promise. I promised never to perform again today, unfortunately I'm breaking it. I am in violation because President Vondráček did not answer the urgent question I asked - how will he vote in the case of the extradition of Members of the Faltýnek and Babiš to prosecute. I think it's important to each of us, perhaps the most important information for the pirát, but also voters who want to bring the Faltýnek and Babiš to trial as soon as possible. So, Mr Vondráček, through Mr President, if you could tell us what your position will be and how you will act in this vote. Each of us will behave according to our consciousness and conscience, but we should know this from our chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u63	I have no further applications for the debate. If no one reports, I am done with the debate. I believe that there is nothing preventing us, Mr President of the Election Commission, from making progress on the electoral act itself. I'm asking if there's anything else you want to tell the sněmovna, or if I should just tell the deadline.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u64	Thank you. At this point, I have nothing to say within the space I have at my disposal, only the time limits on which we have provisionally agreed, Mr President. So I'm going to ask you to interrupt this point to make a secret election. Technically, everything is ready in the State Act and I ask you to repeat the time limits.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u65	The issue of ballots will begin immediately after the interruption of our negotiations and will take 20 minutes. Then we'll leave the election committee for another 20 minutes to process the results of the secret vote, which means we'll meet here at 16.55 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u66	Maybe I'd round up that time, which means we'll be issuing ballots in 16 hours and 35 minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u67	So the ticket issue ends at 4:35 p.m., then the committee counts it, and we'll meet back here at 4:55 p.m. I am interrupting the meeting for the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u68	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, please take your seats in the Chamber. Let me introduce you to Mr Vyzula's apology. He apologizes from 17:00 to the end of the day for family reasons. I ask the President of the Election Commission to introduce us to the outcome of the first round of the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u69	Colleagues, colleagues, good evening. The message - obviously, we didn't even have the ambition to hide it, so I guess you already know it. Lightning took place a little while ago in the media. Nevertheless, I will now be happy and honoured to officially introduce you, on behalf of the electoral committee, to the full result of the election, the first election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies in this parliamentary term. I note that 197 ballots were issued, 151 valid and invalid ballots were submitted, and the number of non-voting ballots was 46. That's the number of tickets delivered 197 from which the concession is required for the candidate to be elected. It was number 99. And I can close. 135 votes were cast for Radek Vondráček and Radek Vondráček becomes President of this Chamber of Deputies. I congratulate him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the Election Commission. I would like to congratulate the newly elected President of the Chamber of Deputies. [[A Member of Kalousek is reporting for the floor.]] If President Kalousek will allow me, he has asked me to come forward, I will give him my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, honourable guests, I will be very brief. With my speech, I got off unplanned. The introduction of this speech is very easy, logical and pleasant for me. I would like to begin by thanking my predecessor in the chair of the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Jan Hamáček, for all his work, which he has done for this House in charge, and I think he deserves a round of applause. [[Strong applause across the hall. Thank you and I appreciate it.]] I've had the pleasure of working with Mr. Hamáček here for three quarters of a year as First Vice-President. In my opinion, he was an excellent President of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to follow up on this cooperation, and I would like to continue continuously in what the President excelled at. I would like to build on all the international and national relations that have been built here. I think it is a great asset to the entire House that the continuity will be here, because it was not always so that the leadership of the new one continued continuously after the previous one. Then, of course, I would like to thank all the Members who have actively participated in the elections. I'd like to thank them 135 a little more. But, of course, I appreciate the trust that was given to me, and I may have mentioned it here in the previous speech, and I respect it as well as the confidence of the voters in the Zlin Region, who sent me to this House for the second time. I will do everything I can to keep that trust from failing, and in this place, I promise both to these voters, but also to those voters who didn't vote for me, and to those Members who didn't vote for me, that I would do everything I could to be a representative and chairman of everyone. And as I've been talking about respect - I'm not gonna repeat myself. I am a great admirer of the British Parliament and I think that British parliamentarianism is a fundamental model of all parliamentaryism, and I have always admired the position of a sleeper in the lower chamber because it enjoys fundamental seriousness and respect. And among other things, it's a condition before you become a spy that you put your party card on the table. We're not there yet, I hope you won't want me to do that, but I'm going to do everything I can to get as close as possible to my British sleeper ideal as possible. I've already said that the great challenge of this House is to find some common ground here, and that I've been reading the historical stew records, the stew protocols. And I've got this -- and I've got this prepared -- this interesting historical parallel for you. It is 25 years since the Czech National Council was appointed and Milan Uhde was elected. The House - guess how many subjects there were, how many pages there were? Nine. Nine, like we have now. And I will, if I may, borrow the words of my colleague, whom I greatly appreciate and who is in many ways a better master of the word than I am. He's a playwright and his speeches have always been of high quality. Milan Uhde said on June 20, 1992: "The vote has shown that the House is polarized, so to speak. I would like to say a few words, a few optimistic words. I would not see into the future the image of this House as a unit polarized into unconciliable positions. I'd rather talk about a arch that also arches from the opposite point to the other, but it's continuous and it's held together. They say the vault is stronger, the greater the weight rests on it. I therefore wish to all of us who have become members of this Parliament to be together with such a vault. A vault where all the building elements are not the same, but related. The weight we feel may help us to give an answer that we would never have to be ashamed of." I think after 25 years, it kind of fits, doesn't it? So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you again for listening to me so carefully. I'm gonna go pick up my mail. I think there's something waiting for me. [[Laughter and applause across the hall. The new President of the Chamber of Deputies Radek Vondráček approaches the chair and takes over the proceedings of the meeting by Jan Hamáček.]] Excuse me, I'm gonna end point nine. My colleague didn't end it. And with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u72	Thank you for the floor. On behalf of TOP 09, Mr President, I would like to wish you a lot of strength in this difficult position and assure you that, however we have not voted for you, as we have said, we are at any time ready to discuss the constructive output of this Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to point out that your choice was open to the process of a government project without trust and without scrutiny by the Chamber of Deputies. I would like to return to Mr Michálek's speech, who said in the election of the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee that it will now be exposed. Now it turns out who the government coalition is. It didn't show up for the election of the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. It turned out now, in the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And the 115 votes. I fully respect the movement of YES, the SPD and the Communists, and the voices of the Pirates have also been added. I fully respect that. I just want the voters to know that this group is responsible for the government of Andrej Babiš without trust, which may rule us for many and many months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u73	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. And here's... Mr. Michálek's actual comment. I'm warning you, we don't have an open point. So only priority rights. He will. Okay. So, after Prime Minister Kováčik. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u74	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, allow me, too, to give you my congratulations and, unlike Mr Kalousek, to express the view that your choice did not open up any passage to any strange project or anything else. Your choice, let us believe, has opened up that the Chamber of Deputies can begin to fulfil its role, which is given by the Constitution and by law. The KSČM Members' Club is ready to cooperate on this role. He's ready to discuss. He is ready to promote the electoral programme of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia and he is ready to cooperate on all the essential things that will certainly come here for four years. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u75	Thank you, too, Mr President. Now, Prime Minister Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u76	Thank you for the floor. Just for a little while. By repeating it several times, it doesn't become the truth, Mr. Kalousek. We've already said... [[President: Through me. Thank you.]] We said it weeks ago. So there's nothing here that's exposed. We said a few weeks ago that the only viable way to establish this Chamber of Deputies and the beginning of legitimate democratic parliamentary work is only one option that is viable. So that's the deal. And we look forward to further cooperation in the anti-corruption agenda, as was quite clear here. I think that even from the time you ruled, there are quite a lot of backgrounds here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u77	Thank you. The President wishes to respond. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u78	Thank you for the floor. I'll be really brief. Prime Minister Michálek, imagine it's raining. [[President: Again through me.]] That it is objectively raining through you, Mr President, imagine that it is raining. [[Laughter and entertainment in the hall.]] It's really raining. We say it's raining. You come in and say, "Just because you say it's raining doesn't mean it's raining. That's probably your argument. That's all. It's really raining. At this point, the project of a monochrome government is launched without trust, without scrutiny by the Chamber of Deputies. You have made a major contribution to this. Please, I respect that very much. You had your motives. And I'm far from trying to formulate the motives of the pirate party. But at this point, you are part of a group that allows the minority government to rule anytime for a long time without trust under the agreement of Mr. Babiš and Mr. Zeman. It will take exactly as long as Mr. Babiš manages to gain confidence in his government. Then those who allow him to gain that trust will bear the responsibility transparently. But until then, you're responsible. If tomorrow, the day after tomorrow, in a week's time, the government of Andrej Babiš will make dramatic changes in intelligence, in the security services, in the prosecutor's office, in anything, the pirát will be responsible for opening the door. I just want us to agree on this. I fully respect that. It's your decision. With full political responsibility, that's what you've decided. But you will also bear the responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u79	Thank you, Mr President. No one has claimed priority rights anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, I will now interrupt our negotiations for 60 minutes. During this period, it is necessary that I, as the newly elected President, sign the parliamentary documents and carry out some additional administrative tasks. Our parliamentary passes will then be issued at the presentation in the foyer. The time will be specified when the Office staff will be processed. So I'm interrupting until 18.10. I'm declaring a break until 18.10. Excuse me? With priority rights, Mr. Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u80	I have a simple question, Mr President. We only have one point ahead of us today, which I think is quite fast, and now we're going to wait 60 minutes to figure out the number 10 point in 120 seconds. I think that item number 10 can be dealt with without the MP's. I don't fully understand, because when we set up the number of Vice-Presidents, then the meeting will be adjourned by Friday. I don't understand what we're gonna do here for an hour to act here for two minutes. Thank you for your explanation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u81	I had the exact same feeling in 2013. I believe that this procedure is basically a practice, but we could put a sovereign vote on it - the House. It's up to you how urgent you are on your MP's IDs. This concerns the takeover of the post, not the IDs, such details as keys to coronation jewels and the like. I think it would be ideal if the club presidents here came to me to make a deal. I'm gonna take a five-minute break and let's make a reasonable deal. Yes? Still... [[Mrs Černochová approaches the microphone.]] I don't have an open point, Madame. You don't have priority rights. I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u82	I wanted to make the House work more effective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u83	So do I.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u84	If it would be possible if, in the meantime, after the election of the number of Vice-Presidents, the election committee could meet and declare a deadline for the number of Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u85	That's the plan. All we need is four minutes, 5:15. Please come to me, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u86	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to take your seats. In practice, we've checked that it won't start without me, because I'm here alone and I don't have any vice presidents. I'm just letting you know that the Piano Room is now being consulted by another electoral commission. Mr. Chairman Kolovratník has asked me for some spare time, so I'm interrupting until 17.20, that might be enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-006-009.u87	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm opening another point that is a point number.
