ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u1	31. Government bill amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts (the Environmental Impact Assessment Act), as amended /German press 1003/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister for the Environment will be presented by Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I am in my own interests and in your interest, because we still have a number of points, I will really limit it to the most necessary. I have already, I think, defended this amendment quite extensively as part of the first reading. I would just like to remind you that this is a fundamental transposition amendment to the EIA law, i.e. an assessment of the environmental effects of projects, to which we have added a whole range of measures as part of the transposition of the European directive, or, say, points that make it much easier, speed up and also make it cheaper to approve projects within the EIA process, especially smaller ones, because, for example, the abolition of the possibility of expressing itself -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u3	I'm sorry, Minister. The Prime Minister here this morning threatened to start naming those who canceled, and they'll be in the House's stew forever. I'm also prepared for this to be forever in the House's twilight record as a major disruptor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u4	Mr President, thank you for defending me. I'm used to mouths, so I'm even whipped by them. But it's gonna be short, I promise. So, in addition to, for example, abolishing the possibility of the authorities concerned to express themselves to the opinion, which will result in a significant reduction of the whole EIA process by up to 50 days, there is, for example, a substantial reduction in the number of projects under assessment. the identification procedure, i.e. a fundamental change in the concept of subliminal projects, where, if this amendment is approved, it will significantly narrow the heading of the subliminal projects, which will be subject to environmental impact assessment - for illustration only, from today's year approximately 2,000 projects, which are assessed in this way in the Czech Republic, to 300. There are other simplifications, shortenings, accelerations and, of course, therefore, a discount for investors. So I think it's clearly the way in the right direction. Certainly then, the rapporteur will talk about the course of the discussions in the various committees. I just want to say that we have agreed with a larger part of the proposed amendments as the Ministry of the Environment. In fact, we did not agree with just one amendment that was recommended in the economic committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u5	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Economic Committee and the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as House prints 1003/1 to 4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Václav Zemek, take the floor now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. I'll follow up on the minister. As has already been said, this material was discussed by the Committee on the Environment at its 41st meeting on 22 March and adopted the following resolution, which is more or less standard. Firstly, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal as amended by the amendments adopted. The proposals included in the Committee on the Environment were 26 overall. I'm not gonna read them all here. You can find it in the 1003/3 Houses where this resolution of the Committee on the Environment is recorded. So whoever's interested can take a look. Secondly, the resolution instructs the President of the Committee to submit this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, as rapporteur for the Committee, I am empowered to present a report on the proceedings here in plenary. Fourthly, it empowers me, in cooperation with the legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies, to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments. That's all on my side for the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u7	That was brief and clear. Thank you, rapporteur. I now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee for Mr Michal Kučera and the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jiří Petrů, to take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u8	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. You have 1003/2 printing at your disposal. It is the resolution of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee No 26 of 8 March 2017 on the Government Bill amending the Environmental Impact Assessment Act and amending certain related laws. I therefore note that this resolution states that the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the press number 1003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u9	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Josef Zahradník first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u10	Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have spoken to present the three amendments that I have prepared for this amendment to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. First of all, I must say that I am satisfied that the amendment is being presented. The Minister has already mentioned some of the things that push the law, which has taken up so much time in our House, which has been subjected to so many critical comments and which has also posed significant problems for our construction industry. Let's remember two years ago, we watched with fear what would happen when the first shape of the law was adopted here. Indeed, the fact that all segments of our construction industry, especially the construction of transport constructions, were slowly blocked significantly. [[14.40 hours]] My amendments, ladies and gentlemen, concern - first of all, the first two concern the position of the public concerned, i.e. people who can comment on the intentions that have been made. Of course, it is not the case for those who have legal rights, i.e. those who live in the locality, who are direct neighbours of the land on which it is realized or the intention will be implemented. This concerns the public concerned, which may exercise its right to express itself at two levels, both in the so-called detection procedure and in the follow-up procedure. Here two institutes can be used for this expression. For one thing, these levels of governance in the EIA process can involve those civil associations or environmental organisations that have more than three years of history in a row, i.e. the DOUHA, KALA, the South Bohemian Mother, the Children of the Country and other and other environmental associations, or then the ad hoc associations created for a given purpose, when those who want to express their position on the project, with the association, form a association, get signed up. Such a association must then prove its necessity by gathering 200 signatures. It turned out, and here I have to thank the Ministry for submitting an analysis of how these signatures are used. The Ministry notes here that out of a total of 1,050 negative findings of the investigation procedure, i.e. where the intention did not have to be subject to an assessment under the EIA Act, so out of these roughly 1,000 negative opinions was challenged, the association commented on the appeal, 14, of which in one case a signature with 200 signatures was used, i.e. the total number was 15, it was 14, and plus the one, i.e. a total of 15, of which three findings of the investigation procedure were cancelled by the appeal authority. So it seems to be a marginal thing. It has yet another possible interpretation, namely that those citizens who want to appeal against the findings of the investigation procedure or who want to enter the follow-up procedure simply found it difficult to establish a association and get 200 signatures, it is simply difficult for them, so they prefer to turn to a stone environmental organisation, in quotation marks, which has a longer history than those three years, and they are very happy to accept their cause and file appeals for them. All they have to do is prove that they have environmental protection in their creation documents. This is a sufficient title to allow them to enter both follow-up and detection procedures at any time. I think that this civil association, an environmental organisation with a history, should also demonstrate that they have some legitimacy for the intention under consideration. This means that, in my opinion, these organisations should also document the signature document. And here I would suggest that the document should have 100 signatures, so that 100 signatures appear on it of those who support the step related to the construction plan, and thus an environmental organisation with a three-year history could enter the proceedings if it could prove its origin and document the signature with 100 signatures. I think it would be pointless to interrupt the ad hoc institute of the 200-signed association just because it's not being used much so far. It may become significant, and I think that the institute could stay in the law, so there would be both possibilities. Therefore, I propose to amend the amendment point 8 of the amendment, to add before the existing text to... the decision under Section 7 paragraph. 6 the text "which shall be supported by its signatures by at least 100 persons' shall be added. And then even in the characteristics of the document after point (j), it is added that it must be signed by at least 100 persons, or at least - and then there will be 200 persons. So we're leaving both those possibilities. That's the first thing I'd like to suggest. I have put this proposal into the system, and then I will sign up for it in a detailed debate where I am signed up. The second amendment then concerns the requirements of the signature supporting document itself. So far, the signature supporting document, more specifically supporting the signature document, has required the citizen to state his name, address and signature on it. We're looking at a different signing campaign now. Individual candidates for candidacy as President of the Republic seek signatures on their signatures, where, according to the new method, the identity, residence, date of birth should also be given the ID number or passport. I don't think that if this can be on the list for the presidential election, I don't see why we couldn't demand that the ID number or passport be required as part of the signing document for this law. Thus, I propose that a new amendment point 50 be introduced in Section 9e, which is currently concerned with § 9e, where a comma would be added in the last paragraph after the words of the date of birth, the link "a" is released and the word "address of the place of residence" is added "and the number of the identity card or passport." So this would relate to that form, this one required figure would be added, which I don't think can bother the signatories because they pull out their ID card and add their identification to it, or if it's people with a passport, it's the passport number. The only thing it will bring, and I think it is a significant thing, is that the signatures of the signatures will be far better identifiable than they have been before, and maybe the signatures that at first glance have referred to some fictional or fairytale characters. The second issue, which concerns supporting the signature, is my further amendment, but which is included in the same contract document, concerns that it has so far been in force and that in the law, the original supporting signature is valid for any subsequent follow-up to the project. Here I have to say that I am based on the fact that people who sign the document have as their goal and purpose of signing them to comment on the process that is taking place somewhere in their home or which concerns them from the point of view of their belief in the protection of the environment, and do not sign them so that they can block some construction and possibly make a potential profit or advantage of it. [[14.50 hours]] What is happening today is that these follow-up proceedings are unfortunately still going on for quite a long time, despite the acceleration that may bring about a new building law, and that there may be compromises in the development of the follow-up proceedings. The developer may need to change his intention to try to comply with the comments made by those who appeal against the decision-making of the appropriate institutions. Here might be a good place to give those signatories a chance to take, if it's a civil association or the registered association or the so-called. The stone environmental organization wanted to file a hundred appeals over and over again, so that it was always necessary to get those signatures again. In order for people to have a chance to revise their intention to say yes to themselves, perhaps the intention is OK here, my comments have been resolved and I do not intend to continue to support the appeal process, on the contrary, I want to comply with the public interest and contribute by not appealing to the intention to be implemented. So here I propose that in the next new amendment point 51, which I propose to include, the last sentence in Section 9e is replaced by the sentence: "For each follow-up procedure to the intention a special supporting signature must be submitted." And inevitably, since I have proposed the insertion of two new amendment points, I suggest that the other amendment points that follow these two inserted be adequately renumbered. So again, I have put this proposal into the system, and I will comment on that in a detailed debate. Finally, there is a third proposal that concerns the issue of the authorisation of persons who carry out the environmental impact assessments. There must always be a person who has authorization. And if the processor is a legal person, then he must have the person who has this authorization. It has so far been true that these persons in different segments of environmental protection processes had this authorisation for five years and had to apply for an extension. However, it happened that, for example, the authorisation of people operating in the field of environment, for example, in the field of professional competence to design, carry out and evaluate geological work in the field of hydrogeology under Act No. 62 on geological works or persons having authorisation for the processing of conflict studies under the Act on Air Protection, in both cases their period of validity has been changed from five years to an indefinite period. Our novel, which we are presenting here, is going in the opposite direction. Not only does it persist in the five-year period of authorisation, but it also requires the need to carry out a proficiency test when extending validity. Therefore, I recommend and propose by this proposal that the duration of authorisation in the field of environmental impact assessment be adjusted so as to correspond to the situation now newly common in other areas of the environment, i.e. to change the duration of authorisation from five years to an indefinite period. According to this, I also tabled my amendment, which changes the various amendments, starting with Amendment point 96, where the words 'or extensions' are just left out. I propose to amend § 19 para. 7 years for an indefinite period of five years, and I inevitably propose that we cut the appropriate processes related to the extension of authorization for another five years. And then again, of course, where it belongs, that's the new paragraph 11, the word "extension" I suggest simply cancel so that the law doesn't talk about it. Here I have added, because the proposal is somewhat more complex, as it is presented, so I have also added the text of the appropriate paragraph in the original version with the marking of the changes. So I have also put this proposal into the system, and in a detailed debate, ladies and gentlemen, I will apply to it and, of course, at the third reading, I will ask you to support these three amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u11	So with priority rights... Really, Mr. Rapporteur. Please, really.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u12	I'll pick up the Zahradník's colleague. I listened carefully to him, and I cannot resist the impression that at the beginning of his speech there was a false impression that the EIA process could be applied for in administrative proceedings. Maybe I'd just be a little more specific. He mentioned the civil associations there, and here it must be said that she can only apply to the decision issued by the administrative authority when, on the basis of the investigation procedure, she decides that the envisaged plan will not be assessed under the EIA Act, that is, under the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. Otherwise, the EIA itself is not an administrative process, so there is no recourse. Well, just to be clear, there's no wrong impression.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u13	Thank you. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Jan Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u14	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, Minister, let me say a few words, let me see how long it will be for the EIA amendment. I remember when we first discussed this here at first reading, so we thought it had something to do with the construction law, of course, and we took it out of the law in some way, and we talked about this area in particular. I remember when we were discussing this with the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, so the Chairman of the Green Party Matěj Stropnickýý came to us to say exactly, not Martin, his father, which is the Minister of Defence, but Matěj Stropnický, and he was eager to discuss that the environmental movements would actually be severely restricted by this law. He specifically defended that we wanted to exclude them in some way from the process, and we said that it wasn't true that they would have the opportunity to comment on the process. Although it will be limited, it will not always be, as it is sometimes abused today, and many constructions cost us, but it will be twice and enough, if I'm not mistaken, in some way in this area. That's all I need to clarify a little bit, because there were various gunfires between me and him when I told him that because of their blockage - I don't mean directly theirs, but many environmental movements - many constructions stopped, and therefore the EIA reports were nullified over the years and we had to negotiate exemptions for the constructions so that we could finish them at all. And when I said that if some of the civic associations stopped it on purpose, I'd let them pay for it. I said it so hard, and it's true, because in the '90s, when they were given a great deal of freedom to speak into almost everything - and that goes back to today. When we start them all of a sudden, or we want to limit them a little bit to build something or finish it, they don't like it, because unfortunately, she's just getting used to it. But the state is here to act as a regulator in the public interest, so it's really necessary to introduce it here. And I will be happy if this law, this EIA, is somehow passed by the end of the term of office. It would be a shame if we didn't make it to the end. At the same time, I welcome some of Mr Zahradník's amendments, particularly those signatures. I will support this amendment, and I think that some other colleagues, too, because it is really logical. As I said before, we are somehow beginning to regulate the possibility of these non-governmental non-profit organizations, or, if you want environmental movements, entering the process, because I can't imagine if suddenly these non-governmental non-profit organizations started entering the process of building a new nuclear power plant or a new nuclear power plant block, like Dukovany, which we are dealing with quite often now. I can't imagine. When they enter the process, I don't think we're gonna build that nuclear power plant in 50 years, and in the meantime, we might be looking for other alternatives to electricity generation. But that is just one single example, one really big one, and we have dealt with this problem with the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which would happen. That would just be hard to block everything. And we wouldn't build anything. [[15.00 hours]] Another example, a piece from my region, is the neighboring region of Pardubice, Pardubice region, so navigation in its essence - section Přelouč - Pardubice - this stage is also blocked because it was the ecological movement that saw a butterfly, probably a beaver somewhere there, eventually it was discovered that it was not a beaver, but something was swimming there in the river Labi. But that's just one of the few examples where something's gonna come up, and it's gonna somehow block in some way, and I think that's wrong. And that's what needs to be treated, because I'm afraid that if we let the benevolence express itself, we're still de facto still expressing ourselves in the proceedings, because of those non-governmental, non-profit organizations, it's going to happen that we're not going to build anything, and those buildings that are running in some way are going to be blocked again, and in some way billions of crowns are going to be lost. And I would let them pay for it, really, these lost investments. As far as Mrs Pěnčíková's amendment is concerned, I also welcome it, and I have it at my disposal when it is said in Section 19, paragraph 9, that The Ministry shall withdraw the authorization to a natural person who has seriously violated this law or failed to fulfil the obligations arising from the decision granting the authorization or who has ceased to comply with the conditions laid down in paragraph 3. A serious infringement of the law shall in particular mean that a natural person has failed to comply with the time limit for the submission of an assessment provided for in this law or contract pursuant to Section 9 (1) at least twice in the last three years: (a) he or she has infringed the obligations under paragraph 2 or (b) without serious reason. This is also an excellent amendment, in my opinion, which solves and in some way accelerates the process of authorising the EIA. So I will personally support these amendments. As I have already said, I will support the amendment by Mr Zahradník, who introduces the signatures, and the amendment by Mrs Pěnčíková. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u15	I thank the honourable Member. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. I do not see the proposal for a re-negotiation of the law to the guarantee committee for a re-negotiation, and therefore I am initiating a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mrs Marie Pěnčíková will be the first to justify her amendments. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. My amendment is in the system as House document number 6375, including the justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u17	Thank you, that was a very clear and rapid justification. Thank you, ma'am. Another duly signed up for the detailed debate is Mr Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u18	Mr President, I refer to my previous speech on the grounds of my proposals, and they are also mentioned in writing in the proposals that have been put into the system, namely, as House document 6262, which I am referring to, House document 6263, which I am referring to, and finally, House document 6380, which I also subscribe to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-005-031.u19	I thank the honourable Member. This has been the last one entered into a detailed debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will conclude a detailed debate. Do I ask the Minister's final words or the rapporteur's? [[They weren't interested.]] Since I do not see any other proposals that we could vote on, I am ending second reading of this bill. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
