ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-018-003.u1	3. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of amendments to Annex III to the Rotterdam Convention on the Prior Consent Procedure for Certain Dangerous Chemicals and Pesticides in International Trade, adopted in Geneva on 5 May 2017 /German press 11/ - First reading The proposed proposal will be presented by Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec. Minister, please take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-018-003.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, on the previous point, you have learned much about changes in the tourism of citizens, and I will now tell you about changes in the tourism of hazardous chemicals, because they are covered by the Rotterdam Convention. Amendments to Annex III shall be made in order to include new hazardous chemicals in this Annex. The last, eighth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Rotterdam Convention, held at the turn of April and May 2017 in Geneva, adopted a decision on the inclusion of four of the following hazardous chemicals in Annex III to the Rotterdam Convention. These are first of all industrial chemicals, which are called. short chain chlorinated paraffins and all tributyltin compounds, and then pesticides, carbofuran and trichlorfon. The inclusion of these substances in Annex III will be subject to the prior consent procedure, which in practice means that the delegated authority of the importing State, in this case the Ministry of Environment in the case of the Czech Republic, decides whether to authorise the import of such a substance or to prohibit it or to impose certain conditions on such imports. Since 2004, the Czech Republic, as a Contracting Party to the Convention, has undertaken to fulfil its obligations and the inclusion of new chemicals is an important measure for the fulfilment of the Convention's objective. The handling of carbofuran, trichlorfon and tributyltin compounds is already covered by the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals and the handling of short chain chlorinated paraffins is then treated in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on persistent organic pollutants, so that changes in Annex III will not affect the law of the Czech Republic or the state budget, public administration or the business sector. Finally, I will just say that in the conditions of the Czech Republic it is relatively already a formal extension, because none of these substances have been used on our territory for several years or even imported here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-018-003.u3	Minister, thank you, and I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor for first reading, Mr Jiří Mihola. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-018-003.u4	Hello, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have only briefly, because the Minister has described everything important here in a pregnant way, so just a brief summary. Annex III to the Rotterdam Convention allows the movement of selected dangerous substances to be controlled and their undesirable import restricted. It shall contain in Annex III a list of dangerous substances covered by the prior consent procedure. The delegated authority, in the Czech Republic, is the Ministry of Environment of the importing State, gives consent to import of dangerous substances before it is realized. The inclusion of four chemicals in Annex III to the Rotterdam Convention, short chain chlorinated paraffins, all tributyltin compounds, carbofuran and trichlorfon was accepted. The implementation of the Convention for the European Union is ensured by Regulation 649/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, which is addressed at national level in accordance with Act 350/2011 on chemicals and chemical mixtures, or chemical law. I recommend a motion to discuss the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-018-003.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur, take a seat in the rapporteur's seat. I am opening a general debate in which I have no one to report to. I'm looking in the diaper. I don't even have an electronic application here, so I'm ending the general debate. I want to ask if the Minister or the plaintiff has the final word. You don't. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has ordered a proposal to be submitted to the Foreign Committee, as has also fallen from the rapporteur's mouth. Does anyone else have a suggestion? I'm not. Do you? You're applying? No, the MP doesn't report, she's just changing her clothes. So I don't have another suggestion. We're going to the vote. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee? Initiating vote now. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 32, 158 Members registered, for 138, versus zero, remaining 20. And the result is accepted. I hereby state that the Government's bill has been ordered to negotiate... sorry, it's not a government bill, it's a government bill, it's a government bill, it's been ordered to negotiate with a foreign committee. I hereby terminate this press and pass the proceedings on to my colleague Pikal. Have a nice evening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-018-003.u6	Have a good night, everyone. We're quite fast, so we're going to have the last point of the day.
