ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u1	288. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations On the agenda of the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, three replies were submitted to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be included on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. I draw all Members' attention to the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, which reads: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House's meeting, there is no debate on the response to his intervention, and the House will not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. We will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. First - Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec replied to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's interpelation on a special bonus for employment in the protection service. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1040. The discussion of this interpelation was interrupted in the presence of the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. I hereby open the debate. The Member is present and I hereby give him the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Control. Dear Minister, dear colleagues from the Protection Service who are here to protect us, Deputy Secretary of Protection, who are listening to us behind the scenes. I made a request to the Minister on a special bonus for members of the Protection Service, and I did so on purpose with the Protection Service, so that you, colleagues and colleagues, could also, if necessary, make an inquiry with colleagues who are here in the lobby, or possibly. around the premises and around the building of the Chamber of Deputies, possibly. The Senate, the government or anywhere else, so that you can talk to these policemen about this issue. It is not only a problem of protection services, but also of some other departments. But I chose protection services for this reason on purpose. The protection service provides personal episodic protection and security transport of permanently protected constitutional agents, so we know what penzum activities the protection service of the Police of the Czech Republic performs. As you already know, a cop's salary consists of several files. The basic tariff - this is the component that we are talking about here, when the government from 1. 7. Increases the basic tariffs by ten percent and thus covers the cost of inflation over the last eight years. A special premium, whether or not called a risk premium, which is granted e.g. for activities related to the protection of the interest of the State in which life or health may be endangered and is worth between CZK 1,000 and CZK 6,000 depending on where the police officer carries out his service. Then it's a personal supplement, which, of course, is only simple. And then they're, uh, an extra charge for the line, depending on the level of control, and of course, the reward, which is non-interest, which is paid in the event of an extraordinary task. By order of Police President No. 240/2016 is the amount of the special surcharge, so-called risks, for occupational posts in the protection service, respectively. his sideline. And it is stated here that the department heads or department heads have a special supplement of CZK 6,000, that is to say in full, in the maximum amount, whereas the so-called senior members of the first and second departments, that is to say, those colleagues who stand here in the lobby at the doorstep, possibly. where else, they have a special surcharge of CZK 4,300. And I asked why senior officials in the protection service have a higher special fee against their subordinates, when the difference between them should be that the manager has an extra charge for the management. I think they're doing the same risky work. On the contrary, colleagues in direct action have a higher risk level than their superiors. And I asked if the Minister believes that senior officials are doing more risky work than their subordinates. [[9.10 hours]] The minister answered me. First he introduced me to what is a special supplement, and in conclusion he replied that the exception made under the regulations, respectively. an annex to the order of Police President 240/2016, so the exception made to the minor honor of the leaders. These are seven leaders, representing only eight percent of the department's management functions. These members are involved - and now please listen carefully - in most security actions and measures and are placed at critical points where the level of risk to their lives and health is higher than that of their subordinates and their psychological burden is extremely high as a result of dealing with crisis situations directly during the course of security actions which differ in case of their risks and difficulties, which cannot be specified in advance. Well, I wouldn't be able to know what the function or performance of the police authorities looks like. I won't comment on it in my own words, but I will allow you to read one of the e-mails I received from a security officer: Dear Member, thank you again for your work and allow me... etc. Thank you also for sharing the answer of Minister Chovanec, who has made me very happy in the morning. I'm a security guard, so I know exactly what we're talking about. The Minister of the Interior's reasoning is really worth it. I'm going to take a short downward reaction to the individual points. It is possible that the situation is different in another department, but I do not expect it to be information that would suggest otherwise, and I will therefore state that the situation described by the Interior Minister for those 8 percent of the executives is completely different from reality. Minister, listen to what a member of the Security Service has to say. These workers - the leaders meant - are involved in most security actions, but not all of them. They plan and organize them from their offices. Then they go to the scene of the security event, but not always, but mainly separately. Who's on the front line? Do you think these people again? Of course not. These workers, when it comes to the risk situation, monitor and evaluate the situation from a distance, and even because they are in place in civilian clothing, without designation of belonging to the Czech Republic, nobody even knows about them on site. So what degree of risk can we talk about here? The Minister of Interior writes: They are placed at critical points where the level of life and health is higher. - Several question marks and exclamation points. - Higher than first-line people who have a lower premium? Does this make any sense to you after the above? With whom is the psychic burden higher? For a person who opposes various aggressive protesters or without anti-imaging equipment, or for a person who is safe in the civilian community without designation of belonging to the Police of the Czech Republic? Steps on the spot are done by who? The manager again? No. That's not really how security services works. I'd like to write more, but it's not appropriate. You know, I don't envy anyone, but this is really beyond reality. With respect, et cetera. I would almost forget the routine daily service, which is focused entirely on the commonly frequented locations of the capital's territory, where the members of the protection service are literally shot down. This is for further writing, but it does not quite fit in the context of comparison of risk compared to 8 percent of managers. So your esteemed colleagues who are interested in the activities of the Police of the Czech Republic have the opportunity to see how some activities work, and where it would be logical for a distinction to be made between a manager and a police officer in direct service on the basis of other components of the salary, that is to say, a bonus for management, or a personal evaluation of a member, so it is necessary to evaluate these managers with a so-called higher level of risk, which means to provide them with a special surcharge. If this is the case with other departments, such as the District Department of the Police of the Czech Republic at your place of residence, imagine that the head of the district department will have 6,000 and the police officer who is in direct service works day and night in any weather, will be at a lower risk of a surcharge because his official, who organizes his service and determines whether he is to serve on Friday, Saturday, Sunday or on a holiday, has such high risk that he deserves a higher risk premium, so-called special according to the law. I do not agree with this, and I think that the Minister of the Interior should deal with this, he should ask the Police Presidium to reconsider the level of risk of the members of the Protection Service and to straighten this out. Members of the Police of the Czech Republic, who are outside, around the buildings of the Chamber of Deputies, the government, have the same level of risk as members of the district departments or local departments here in Prague, the traffic police, permanent order units, which all have a risk premium of CZK 6,000. So I think, Minister, that you should take all steps to make sure that the risk premium, a law called special, is united and that all members serving here in Prague have a special supplement of CZK 6,000. I do not want to reduce the premium to senior officials, but I would like to see a special premium for the members of the protection service settled in direct service. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking who else wants to speak in the debate. I assume the Minister will respond. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not really understand the nature of this interpelation, because I think we see the situation differently here, which is nothing impossible or weird. What I'm quite sorry about is that the member you were talking about didn't turn to me or the union organization, or his commanders, because I don't think that this way helps with the credit of the Police of the Czech Republic. On the other hand, I think that this government and the Ministry of the Interior have done their utmost in the last three years to improve the work of police officers even after financial evaluation. Dear Member, I do not want to correct you and, through the President, perhaps just one sip - the ten percent you are talking about is not the levelling-up of inflation. Ten percent that police officers, firefighters and other security systems will now receive from the state from 1. The 7th of this year, from my point of view, is the removal of injustice. That's the money that was taken. If you look at wage increases over the last three years, let's look for inflation. These ten percent, from my point of view, is the correction of the injustice that should never have happened. The state should never have taken ten percent of these people's wages. On the other issues - those executives, and there are really seven of them according to the information from the security service, these are people who go on individual security actions. Their task is to distribute work, manage the activities of members of the Police of the Czech Republic on site and, among other things, coordinate their activities with the components of the integrated rescue system. I find it very difficult to accept the fact that these people have the same tasks as those of the class. According to the information I have, only these seven people have a different special supplement compared to their subordinates. Otherwise, it's the same. I also had some debate about the fact that perhaps the press spokespersons across the police have a non-standard extra charge. By asking the Police Presidium, I found that this supplement for spokespersons and intervention workers was set at CZK 3,300. That means, it's not true that the surcharge here is set in a way that's unstandard. As for the seven people we are talking about having a different bonus, I would like to remind you that, as examples in the last six months, these people, in the role of executives, have contributed decisively to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u5	I'll ask for some peace in the room. If you feel you need to discuss something, you can go outside.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u6	I hope your colleague Ondráček will hear through the noise from the club KSČM. As far as these workers are concerned, they have played a crucial role in securing foreign visits, such as the President of Bulgaria, Slovakia, Tajikistan, France, Serbia, visits to the Prime Ministers of Poland, Slovenia, Germany, Malta, the Presidents of the Chambers of Parliament of Canada, Sweden, Croatia, foreign ministers of France, Austria, Slovakia, Iran, Great Britain, Libya, Slovenia, Japan, Vatican and others. This means that these people are very crucially involved in the organisation itself in these security measures. It doesn't seem like it, because I don't really know if every one of us here knows that the security service de facto ensures visits to these foreign statesmen, so it is at these events on the spot that these people ensure synergies between the police forces and the other forces, and therefore, from our point of view, it is appropriate and good for them to have a thousand crowns or fifteen hundred higher extras. In conclusion, and I do not want to be quite responsible here, and I do not defend myself from this debate, I do not defend myself from it, I do not, in principle, defend myself with my colleague, Mr Ondráček, maybe even on the grounds of the Security Committee, why not, with the participation of the police President. However, I would just like to say here that the Minister of the Interior cannot directly intervene at the specific level of the special surcharge pursuant to § 120 para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the objective of common interest. This means that this is fully within the competence of an independent police president. And the amount of special allowances is not decided by the Director of the Protection Service, but ultimately and at the final stage and in the final decision it is the Police Presidium which decides on this amount, also within the framework of the regulation referred to here by Mr Ondráček. That means for me, I don't see the problem with these seven people. If we really see him there, let's go back to the Security Committee meeting, where we invite the police president, and let's discuss this in depth. And all police officers who are here as security services: if you have any such problem or any concern, feel free to contact me. I don't bite.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u7	Thank you, Minister. Mr Pavel Kováčik, President of the KSČM Club, is now making a point. I then register Mr Ondráček's application. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ma'am and gentlemen, maybe I just want to apologize so little to the Minister that he heard some noise from our ranks. He said that the biggest noise is from members of the club KSČM. Well, it is, Minister, because when I look at the House, the MPs for the KSČM club, unlike the other clubs, are here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u9	I thank the President and congratulate him on his high participation. [[Laughing in the hall]] Now, Mr Ondráček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u10	Thank you again. Minister, we are not in conflict. What you're saying here, I don't envy the seven members who make up eight percent of the security service, nor do I want them to be reduced. You yourself describe some of the activities that are, and how they have the level of risk, etc., but this is part of the leadership surcharge - the leadership surcharge that they have under their command function. Because if you are stating that they carry out tasks to protect, for example, foreign delegations, the members of the Protection Service stand side by side with members of the District Department who have a risk premium of CZK 6,000. And the head of the district department, who also has a greater degree of organization and risk when organizing certain activities, has the same risk premium. So I'm talking about settling the risk surcharges for rank-and-line members here in Prague. Because, as you know, the security service has long been facing the loss of workers, and police officers are simply leaving the security service and failing to replace them. And it is one of the reasons that they simply have a lower risk premium, or a special surcharge, whether we don't pull words, a special surcharge than the members of the local departments. The nearest department here, I think, is the Tržiště or where and where they already have $6,000. So here you meet two members in uniform, one belongs under the District Directorate of Prague 1, the other belongs under the protection service, you can only tell by the sleeve label, but one here performs tasks for 4,300 with the risk level and the other for CZK 6,000. And they carry out the same tasks, for example, in securing room for foreign delegations to come here. So it's not that someone has more. The point is that 97 per cent or 92 per cent has a lower risk premium than they should have. And if we want to stabilize, and I think it is also your concern to stabilise the Protection Service of the Police of the Czech Republic, then this should be settled. And I know that you can't interfere directly with the police president's orders, but you can conduct certain negotiations with the police president and say that it would also be a way to prevent the security service from facing the level of personnel they face in the long term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. If no one else is speaking, I am ending the debate and I am now asking Mr Ondráček whether he is proposing a resolution and, where appropriate, how to respond to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u12	I do not propose a resolution because the Minister has answered me. I just wanted to open my eyes to the Minister so that he knew that this is how it works. So the very discussion of this interpelation is enough for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u13	Well, thank you, too. The Minister is still applying with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u14	I would also like to politely congratulate the KSČM club on its high participation. [[Laughing in the hall]] I just didn't want you to disturb your colleague so I could understand him. So consider it a small contribution to the debate. To my colleague Ondráček through you. Believe me, my eyes are wide open, and when I came to the Home Office three years ago, I've been wondering since then, and I haven't finished yet, and I haven't stopped. There were two police presidents, and we've been dealing with so many problems over time. And believe me, the resort that I have the honor of leading, that I like these people, that they're policemen, firemen, and that I'm trying to improve their conditions. The fact that we've returned ten percent also means some personal stabilization for those people, and that means, above all, that we've given them back their pride. Because they didn't understand why the state they serve would just take their money from day to day. It's not so much about money. It's about a sense of pride, a sense of belonging to the state. And that's where I think the basic mistake was made, that's just never supposed to happen. I very much hope that our successors will learn from this, and they will never go that way again. That's a precedent that never happened. He didn't happen in either country in our neighborhood. And when public budgets were cut, so that the salaries of civil servants would be affected - I don't remember anything like this ever happening in the surrounding states. Believe that the personnel situation in the police is bothering me, and not just the security service, but it is weighing on me in general. Believe that I am burdened that today, for example, in Central Bohemia and Prague, we must withdraw policemen from the Ústí Region, from northern Moravia. And believe me, what we've just prepared is that project Development of the Police of the Czech Republic is the beginning of the journey. Giving back 10% to those people is the beginning of the journey. And if we want the police and the fire department that are inside the Ministry of the Interior to be stable and stable here, it's gonna be a very long journey, and it's gonna be expensive. I firmly hope that even the next Chamber of Deputies will find the courage to just put those resources there. Because if we want security, we simply have to pay for it. And the main investment has to go into people. We're in complete agreement here. I am going back to the offer I made, and Mr Váňa, Chairman of the Security Committee, is sitting here. Let us return to this debate not only on the issue of protection services, but also within other elements of the Police of the Czech Republic within the Committee's meeting and return to the material Development of the Police of the Czech Republic. We approved him as government, but we approved him without money. That means we still need to model funding for the next five years. It is about four billion crowns that need to be sent into the structures of the police and the Ministry of the Interior and the Fire Rescue Corps. We know exactly which way we're going, and we'll be happy if we have a chance to talk to you about it. So the offer is: let's debate on the committee and get back to it as a comprehensive solution. [[9.30 hours]] And we know exactly which way we're going, and we'll be happy if we have a chance to talk to you about it. So the offer is: let's debate on the committee and get back to it as a comprehensive solution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u15	I thank you, Minister, and given that the debate is continuing, with the de facto remark of Mr Karel Fiedler. Okay, your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u16	Thank you for the floor. I will just briefly respond to what Minister Chovanec said, that the members were restored to pride by returning the ten percent. And I think they still have to feel discriminated against by knowing that they've just gotten back what was taken from them, the ten percent, and in the meantime, to other professions, especially government officials, those salaries are rising. I don't think it's the return of that pride at all. At the same time, I know and realize - the Minister does not listen, too bad - that this is not due to the activities of his government or during the era of his work at the Ministry, that it was taken over from the last parliamentary term by the last government. I'm aware of that. But I really don't think that returning those ten percent should be understood, I understand those members, I wouldn't take it so much that it gives me back my pride when only what was taken back, and in the meantime, the other salaries went up again. I understand, Minister, that this is not entirely a matter of your action, that it has something to do with the last Nečasův government, but I still think it is not adequate to correct the situation that the previous government has caused.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for respecting the time limit. Anyone else interested in speaking in this debate? If not, I am once again ending the debate and, given that Mr Ondráček has not made any motion for a resolution to be voted on, I am ending this point and thank you. With a reminder of such an emphasis pronunciation - Ondráček and Vondráček, sometimes it was mistaken in those contributions. Thank you personally. There. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka replied to Mr Vojtěch Filip's interpelation on the financing and activities of registered non-state so-called. non-profit organisations. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing 1049. I am opening the debate to this interview and I will ask the Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, Vojtěch Filip, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u18	Thank you. Mr President, Prime Minister, members of the government, Mrs and gentlemen, allow me to state why I did not agree to reply to my written interpelation on non-state non-profit organisations registered in the Czech Republic for a relatively simple reason. I admit that the Prime Minister answered my questions quite precisely, but he answered not as Prime Minister, but - I apologize to all the accountants - as an accountant. But I didn't want the accountant's answer, I wanted the Prime Minister's answer. I appreciate the accountants otherwise, because without them, of course, it would be difficult to calculate the individual things. But this is a political forum, and we need to conduct ourselves politically on these issues. Yes, it is true that there are over 3,600 non-profit organizations here, and it is also true that only three percent of these non-profit organizations receive contributions from the state budget. And the Prime Minister specifically replied that the concept of integration of foreigners was issued from 10,000 000 in 2014 to 19 482,487,48 crowns in 2016. Of course, and it is even an indication that the integration of legally staying third-country foreigners in the Czech Republic into the state integration program, which was written for the first time last year, is 13 996 501 CZK and it is the integration of persons with international protection in the form of individual integration plans. Assistance in the relocation of countrymen, that's what we discussed here, I don't doubt, 10 306 489,76 crowns. These are probably assistance services and direct assistance to clients. Finally, I was at the Orlické dam facility in the South Bohemia Region to see how we relocated people from Ukraine. As for the services in asylum facilities, the 587 051 CZK is the operation of workshops, warehouses, provision of leisure activities, psychological services to clients of the respective facilities. So I don't question the 44 479 528,58 crowns. Well, I'm not seriously questioning his answer, Prime Minister. Yet, and here begins my fundamental question, and I would like to answer here before the Chamber of Deputies here from the Prime Minister - whether it is true and the Prime Minister shares my opinion, but also most of those I meet when answering the question I am asking today, whether the state budget in the Czech Republic must only be used in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. That's a crucial question. I repeat, if he agrees with my view that the budget of the Czech Republic must only be used in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. If that's the case, then we can keep talking. If the Prime Minister does not have that opinion, then we will probably disagree on the answers. But I believe that this should be solely in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, and in that case, according to what key, according to which key projects are selected for those 3% of those non-profit organizations, to whom we give money from the state budget without the consent of this Chamber of Deputies, which is, among other things, a budgetary sovereign under the Constitution of the Czech Republic. True, we have lost a lot of sovereignty because we usually leave it to the Ministry of Finance, and then we approve or we don't approve and we can't even make any changes here, because most of the free part that Members could directly intervene in, we have lost influence on it and we do not have any. So if the second question points to what key, and I am interested in it, it does not have to be in the Czech Republic as far as the interests of the Czech Republic are concerned, then I am interested in how the countries are selected. What's the key? If it's a key that relates to our activities in those particular countries, or if it's a regional key that we're arguing with ourselves, or if it's influenced by someone else, e.g. I am not questioning the European Union, which we are members of, or whether there is any other interest. And I'm really interested in that. I'm gonna pick one example that forced me to give the interview. Is it in the interests of citizens of the Czech Republic to improve health care in Ethiopia? Is it in the interest of the Czech Republic to increase the efficiency of agriculture in Ethiopia and improve the Ethiopian education system? If it is the interest of the Czech Republic, then fine. So I want to quantify the interest, that is. That's what we're interested in. If we just pay a člověk in distress who spends money there, or if from the money spent, we are interested in the fact that our companies in Ethiopia will prosper, that we will have some contracts there that will enable us to increase employment in the Czech Republic, or whether we will do these things. [[9.40 hours]] I am reminding you that since 2003, or about 14 or 15 years later, the population has increased by about 30 million people, whereas in our country the population has been declining rather than growing. And in that respect, I don't quite see the interest. I remind you that the problem of non-profit organizations and the interest of taxpayers in spending money transparently is not just a question of the Czech Republic. Six senators in the United States of America, including Cruz, who was a presidential candidate, sent a letter to US Foreign Minister Rex Tillerson asking for an investigation into Open Society Fund grants, the Soros Foundation, to focus on activities against the governments of allied countries. The U.S. senators specifically named Macedonia. And I wonder if we are violating some of our activities and some of our foundations are fundamentally violating our international legal commitment. And that's the second main question-- that was the first basic question and then the sub-questions. This is the second fundamental question - if we are not in breach of our international legal commitment that we will not proceed in breach of Article 1 (1) of the Treaty. 1 international pact on civil and political rights. This means that each nation has the right to its own political regime and to use its natural resources. This is our commitment from 1 January 1977, or from 1 January 1993 when we divided ourselves from the Czech and Slovak Federal Republic as a separate state. Because if that is the case - and it is true that a person in distress is labeled by some governments of other sovereign states of UN members as an enemy organization and is removed from the territory of these states, including our very important economic partners, either in the east or in the south of the globe. And in that respect, the second question is very important to me. If we spend the resources we spend on this, we're not interfering with our international legal commitment. I mean, why am I talking about this? Because, of course, we can spend the resources in a completely different way. If it is - forgive me, it offends me that we should pay from the funds of the Czech state budget some things while not having to treat our children and have to collect PET bottle caps. Or if we're taking care of seniors. I have warned here several times when discussing the state budget that my essential subject is how we treat our own seniors. I don't even blame you, Prime Minister, for the fact that in 2014 the contribution to the elderly was CZK 40, because it wasn't your budget, it was the budget of another government. But in 2015 and 2016, I blamed you because you already did the budget. And that was the same massacre, so forgive me for making that donation to our seniors for 50 crowns. And only today, only for 2017, i.e. for the election year, have you decided that pension growth will be an amount that will not at least be a mockery for the elderly. I'm also asking if we could spend the funds on the benefit of our science, culture and education, or our children's homes, that is, care for children who are born here and parents don't. I am convinced that what is already happening without the influence of the Chamber of Deputies as a budgetary sovereign on some ministries contradicts the fundamental question. That means, he contradicts the fact that we're using the state budget - because we're not the owners of the money. As Members and you as a government, we are merely administrators of the funds we collect on taxes, and we, in my opinion, must use them only in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. That was the reason I didn't agree to the answer because the accountant's answer wasn't enough. I ask if this is ensured so that we do not violate the fundamental right of citizens of the Czech Republic to address our own national interests in particular for our taxes. Thank you. That is the first part of the questions and I expect answers to those first two fundamental questions, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka will now appear. [[Members of the KSČM debate.]] I'm just going to ask the club members with the greatest participation to cut back on their conversations and keep them quiet. You've disturbed your own President, and he's certainly curious to hear the Prime Minister's reply. Thank you. [[Noise from members of the KSČM does not stop.]] One more time, please, calm down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u20	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. [[Members of the KSČM are still discussing. The Prime Minister is waiting for peace in the hall.]] Yes, thank you. Madam, honourable Members, Mr Vice-President, allow me to respond to the intervention of Vice-President Filip. First of all, I am glad to live in the Czech Republic. I am proud that our country has the health system it has. I know there are many things we can be dissatisfied with. But if we compare it to a situation in the UK where people wait months and sometimes even years to receive adequate health care, when we compare the situation with the United States, where a huge number of people don't even have basic health insurance, where the problem is that private insurance companies choose between who they insure and who they don't insure, it's damn good that we didn't allow the privatisation of the health care system in our country. That we have public health insurance and that we have a system here where people are guaranteed that if they have serious health problems, the health insurance system will pay for it. Vice-President Filip here spoke of children who need to collect lids. If the child is ill and has serious health problems, there is a health insurance system. Medical procedures, surgery, treatment of a serious disease, such as cancer, are fully covered by the health insurance system. Our people have the advantage in the Czech Republic that we have a public health insurance system, that it is a general health insurance system. I know sometimes people are grumbling about having to put health insurance into that system. But when you get older and you need health care, when you have children and those children need health care, very often only at that moment you realize how good it is that we have a general health insurance system and that really for someone to undergo a serious expensive treatment, which in one case can cost several million crowns, we do not have to collect eyelids that these people do not have to go around health insurance and beg them to make sure they get health care at all. I am not satisfied with the standard of living of seniors in the Czech Republic. I am convinced that there was a serious mistake, that in recent years inflation has not been fully praised. And I will fight very hard for this, and I hope that I will also receive support for this in this Chamber of Deputies, so that the pensions will be valued by at least 500 crowns on average next year. It must be our priority. We have to agree that this will be one of the priorities for the valorisation of pensions, because more than two million of our seniors deserve it, especially because of the way the valorisation looked before 2013 and how the elderly were saved. [[9.50 hours]] No spending on nonprofit organizations plays a role in finding enough money for health care, which is a priority for the government. None of this about funding non-profit organisations plays a role in finding enough money to valorize pensions. That's a priority. And I want the patient's involvement not to grow, I'm against charging, and I'm in favour of not privatizing the health care system so that everyone who's sick gets a chance to get adequate medical assistance out of this system here. To get it in time to get it in the necessary quality. And I'm in favour of valorizing pensions next year being at least CZK 500 on average. Vice-President Filip criticized my response to the interpellation that she was too accountant. However, Mr Vice-President, it could not have been otherwise. Because you asked me about the funding of nonprofit organizations, how many of them we have here, how much money they're getting. You, for example, wrote here: "On the Internet there is information about how some nonprofits make money from migration, not small sums. There's talk of hundreds of millions of crowns going nowhere." So when you asked me such a question that there are hundreds of millions of crowns on the Internet that go nowhere unknown, I felt obliged to tell you exactly how it is. And it's not hundreds of millions of crowns. It's not hundreds of millions of crowns, it's tens of millions of crowns a year, and that's a big difference. It's not like they're going nowhere, but it's exactly known, controllable, billable, how the funds are used. So let me be clear, sakump, as it is. In 2014, the sakumbraz funds that went on activities that provided non-governmental non-profit organisations in the area of migration for the whole of 2014 were 11.3 million. Crowns. So no hundreds, 11.3 miles. Crowns. Then I'll go back to the bowels. Year 2015 - 21 mil. Crowns for a whole year. No hundreds of millions of crowns, but 21 miles. CZK for the whole year 2015. A 2016 - 44 mil. Crowns for a whole year. Again, no hundreds of millions of crowns. And it's not true that it goes nowhere unknown. For example, assistance in the relocation of countrymen. What's that? Who are the countrymen? What kind of countrymen are they? They're countrymen from Ukraine. They are the descendants of people who most often went to Ukraine in the 19th century, settled there. As you know, the descendants of these people turn to the Czech Republic and strive to relocate to the Czech Republic with their families. That means going back to the homeland of your ancestors. Our government supported this activity and I am glad that in 2015 we gave 7.6 miles to assist in the relocation of our countrymen from Ukraine. CZK and in 2016 we supported this by the amount of CZK 10.3 million. Crowns. So it's not unknown where, but it's a program that allows these people to move here to find jobs to find a place to live. He's learning Czech. The children of our countrymen from Ukraine learn Czech for these funds. Landscapers learn Czech, because of course most of them no longer speak Czech, or don't speak, or can only speak a few words they've learned from their parents. And for children to learn Czech and they to learn Czech, they spend the money. Why is he learning Czech? They learn Czech so they can go to school. They learn Czech to find employment. And I am very glad that the program is so successful that these compatriots are not left with the accommodation provided by the Ministry of the Interior. They find work very quickly, find accommodation very quickly, help them citizens of the Czech Republic, our communities, our associations. I want to thank them very much for that, because I think the countrymen's assistance program is working very well. The concept of integration of foreigners. This is the integration of legally staying foreigners from third countries into the territory of the Czech Republic. Integration program. Integration of persons with international protection in the form of individual integration plans. It is clear that it is necessary to integrate these people in order to respect our rules in order to integrate them into our society. The money we spend on the integration of foreigners will be returned many times thanks to higher security, because we do not have social tensions. They will come back because these people can integrate into our labour market, they will start making legal money, and they will start returning the money through taxes and contributions to the state budget. If we hadn't done the foreign integration program, we'd be getting into trouble. But again, it's the exact amount, we put 13.9 miles on the state integration program in 2016. Crowns. The MEDEVAC program. MEDEVAC is one of the prides of the Czech Republic, I think. We are the countries that are able to offer treatment in humanitarian cases, humanitarian crises, such as the war in Syria. And we offered treatment. We offered treatment to severely ill children from refugee camps in Jordan and helped them improve their health. These are refugees who escaped from the war in Syria and reside in a refugee camp. I am proud that our doctors in these refugee camps provide health care. I had the opportunity to personally see this during a visit to Jordan. I must say that the Jordanian government, too, is flattering because we are trying to improve living conditions in those refugee camps. And, among other things, by helping our doctors save lives there, returning people's health, helping children, solving cases that no one else would be able to solve from a professional point of view. This is the MEDEVAC programme, which we finance from funds, and of course our doctors and some nonprofit organizations are involved in this programme. So it's not hundreds of millions of crowns, it's tens of millions of crowns. They don't go somewhere where they don't know what's going on with the funds, but it's pretty obvious. I think it is also necessary when talking about the numbers of non-profit organizations, I think it is good to say the total statistics, because public registers, for example, registered 82 527 associations in 2015, 24,000 branches of associations, over 2,700 generally beneficial companies, 490 foundations, 1,331 foundations, 232 school legal entities and 250 special purpose facilities of churches. When I looked at which of these associations received the biggest subsidy, for example. In 2015, the largest subsidy was obtained by the Football Association of the Czech Republic amounting to 314 million. Crowns. I think it is important to realise that among all the associations, nonprofit organizations are large sports facilities that work in the Czech Republic. And one of the largest amounts of funding that goes for nonprofit organizations in our country is the promotion of sport that is provided by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. And the money that goes to sports in the nonprofit sector is many times higher than the money that goes to nonprofit organizations that deal with the integration of foreigners or relocation of countrymen in the Czech Republic. So we have a really large number of associations, nonprofit organizations, and I think that's a good thing. Because if you look at how much work volunteer firefighters do, for example, and I'm proud of the fact that voluntary firefighters from the state budget have been able to increase their support and that we give volunteer firefighters significantly more money than the government has given them in the past. If you look at how much work in the country is done by associations such as hunters or gardeners or beekeepers, even these are registered associations that are financed in some way from the Ministry of Agriculture. [[10.00 hours]] You asked if there were any rules, if there was any concept. Of course, all funds spent to support firefighters, hunters, gardeners, athletes in our country are controlled. Clear grant rules are set. Anyone who applies for subsidies must comply with these subsidy rules. There is a check, whether on the part of the relevant ministries, which provide subsidies, and of course also on the part of the Supreme Audit Office, which also deals with this area. So when we look at the amount of money that goes into the non-profit sector, the first place is athletes, then organizations that deal with social services are providing social services on a non-profit basis in the Czech Republic, then they are organizations that work, let's say, in the field of federal interest life, and there is not only government, but, of course, they are provided by municipalities and regions that make a significant contribution to the functioning of federal life and civil society in our country. Vice-President Filip asked if the money should be spent in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic. Well, if we help integrate foreigners who come legally to the Czech Republic, it is in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, it is in the interests of the good and non-conflict functioning of our society. And here in this House, everyone repeatedly appeals to the government to contain illegal migration. And it's important to do it. There is a need to stop the illegal migration that goes to the European Union. We're doing the best we can. And one way to stop the illegal migration that goes to the European Union is for people not to go to Europe. So they don't go from the Middle East to Europe, so they don't go from Africa to Europe. And a large part of the projects that we are implementing - and I will introduce you to these projects in a moment, don't worry, I will go into even more detail - so much of these projects are aimed at improving people's living conditions in North Africa. Much of these projects are aimed at improving the living conditions of people living in the Middle East. And I would like to ask Vice-President Filip: Is it better if these people stay there? If they stay in Jordan, Syria, Ethiopia, Eritrea, South Sudan? Or does Vice-President Filip think it's better for these people to pack up and come to Europe? What does he think is a better option? And I would very much like him to answer that question in the context of these interventions. Do you want these people to stay in North Africa, or do you think it's better to go to Europe, here, as illegal or legal migrants to the European Union? My opinion is that we should do everything we can to allow those people to have a decent and dignified life in the country where they were born so that they can stay in their region so that they can create living conditions so that those people don't have to run away to Europe. Because Europe cannot solve all the problems by accepting all the people who fail in their countries. We need to make sure that the conditions in North Africa improve, so that the conditions in the Middle East improve, and those people don't have to run from here to Europe. And those programmes that we support in these regions are in the interests of the Czech Republic. They are in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic precisely because it is in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic that we should stop and slow down illegal migration flows. To stop the currents of people who feel their only chance of living is to leave the country where they were born and go to Europe and try to find a new life there. Europe simply doesn't have the capacity to do all this. So if we agree that it is good that we improve the conditions of people living in these regions, then this is what our development aid is heading towards. This is what our humanitarian aid provided by the Czech Government is aimed at. And what the money's up to. I have an overview here that concerns individual years, and I can, of course, mention the specific projects that have been provided there: Integrated health care for mother and child in Chad. Support for people at risk of drought in southern Ethiopia. Emergency health care for the most vulnerable populations in the Central African Republic. We've got South Sudan, food security. We have the help of the victims of the war in northern Syria, where three million crowns were provided. Securing the sanitary needs of the Syrian refugee camp in Zatari. Comprehensive support for displaced Syrian families in Jordan. Syria, providing humanitarian assistance to the victims of the conflict and the internally displaced population. We have bandages for lepers in Africa and India. We have help here in other areas. When I look at 2015, we have a roof over our heads and better hygiene for refugees from South Sudan. South Sudan again, ensuring food security. 2016 - projects that have been implemented: Aid in Ethiopia again, assistance in the Central African Republic. Help, a strong aid that is currently directed not only towards Syrian refugees, but also humanitarian aid that goes directly to Syria, but also humanitarian aid that is already going to Iraq, so that the living conditions in Iraq and people do not have to leave here. So we are trying to make this development aid, humanitarian aid, go to areas where people need it. We are trying to guide it there within the concept that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs naturally has, and we are also trying to direct it to areas where we can alleviate migratory pressures. This means that much of this assistance is directed to the region of North and Central Africa, a large part of this assistance is directed to the region of the Middle East, and a part of it is directed to Asia as well. We also respond to some specific natural disasters. And I think it is a good thing if the Czech Republic is one of the countries that is not indifferent and is able to help in the world within its limited possibilities. All these specific aid cases are clearly quantified, clearly controlled. There is a responsible body that provides these subsidies. If we're talking about humanitarian grant programs, it's the State Department that provides these programs. There are programs where the Ministry of the Interior provides this support, there are programs where this support is provided by the Ministry of Health. It is possible to request specific numbers for these departments that relate to individual programmes. I am saying this because I would very much like it if the government's interpellation did not take place on the basis of what is circulating on the Internet, it was not based on concepts and impressions, but if there were specific cases, let it be stated in particular whether the funds were abused in any way. So if there was a specific example of whether the money we sent to a refugee camp in Zatari, Jordan, was not to be used there, for example. has been electrocuted, if the money that was sent to MEDEVAC has not been used to operate heavily ill children here in our hospitals, if there are such suspicions, if there is any evidence about it, indication, please put them on the table, everything will be examined, everything will be assessed, everything will be communicated. The government has no reason if there were any particular suspicions to conceal anything so that we wouldn't tell the public anything. So the State Department, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of the Interior is ready to provide all the documents relating to this assistance. However, I am convinced that if we are to address migration problems where they arise and not meet with its negative consequences here in Europe, then we need to take care of what is happening in the Middle East to take care of what is happening in North Africa and try to do our best to help those regions stabilize and perhaps not need such humanitarian support from Europe in the future. But unfortunately, that's not the situation today. So I disagree with those who say: let us not worry about what is happening around Europe. If we don't worry about it, we'll face ever greater refugee waves, we'll face ever greater pressure. Both in the area of security must worry about what is going on around Europe and in the area of humanitarian, environmental, social and care about what is going on around Europe. If we don't do this, we will only be meeting with other refugees and refugees who will just come to Europe. [[10.10 hours]] I am of the opinion that Europe as the European Union should make a very coordinated policy towards these regions. If we want to defend external borders together, if we want to defend external Schengen borders together, we must worry about what is happening outside these borders. And, in my opinion, Europe should coordinate development aid and should also link it with its migration policy. I would probably like to put an end to the first part of my answer. I consider it very reasonable to conclude agreements with individual countries in North Africa, the Middle East, but also in Central Asia, which will be complex. So that we do not only deal with these countries by providing them with assistance and support, humanitarian aid, support, or, for example, in the case of Afghanistan, by helping our soldiers to maintain at least elementary security in certain regions. But I want us to talk to these countries and also discuss return policy, so that we have agreements with these countries on the return of illegal refugees. Unfortunately, there are no such comprehensive agreements in many of these regions, and then the European Union has a big problem returning people who will not be entitled here in Europe to asylum or international protection. I think that in the future we need to link our development assistance more closely, our humanitarian assistance that we provide, with the return agreements with these countries. It is either the Czech Republic or the European Union as a whole. And I can also tell you that my government has been working very hard for the last three years to provide development aid, humanitarian aid, and pro-export support. This means where the ministries provide development humanitarian aid, we are trying to implement the support of our companies, our entities, to support their opportunities in these regions. If we implement some specific projects, that is, we build a water treatment plant or build wells in a place where there is no water, so we try to make it a kind of springboard for our business activities as well. It's not always easy. Of course, many of these countries have serious economic problems, but I am convinced that this stage and this part of state policy must not be missed. He mustn't miss it. If we are humanely active somewhere, if we are trying to stabilize some countries, develop them, it is important that we also have active business sections in our embassy, so that we have a pro-export policy that will focus on this. I want to assure you, honourable Members, that our government is trying to do this and we are trying to link these things up and that our traders will follow our non-profit organizations that provide humanitarian or development aid there so that our companies will have a chance to participate in these projects that need to be supported in development aid, thereby creating a bridge for our exports and our economic policy. One more time. The fact that the report was detailed, that there were specific figures, is proof that the government behaves quite transparently, that the government has nothing to hide and that the government is trying to ensure that every crown of the taxpayer is not only paid economically and effectively in the interests of the citizens of the Czech Republic, but also to be traceable and, of course, to be re-checked. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u21	Thank you, too, Prime Minister, for your comprehensive answer. I'm gonna read the apologies now. I'm afraid I won't be able to get to it after that. Mr Vít Kaňkovský apologizes from 9 to 10 from today's meeting, Mrs Jana Lorencová apologises from 9 to 12.30 for work reasons, Mr Pavel Šrámek apologises until 10 o'clock without giving any reason. The Prime Minister's appearance brought about a wave of factual remarks. Mrs Aulická will be the first to speak in the debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond to the Prime Minister, through you. I must say, Prime Minister, you really have a gift, and it is that you can talk for long minutes, maybe even hours. My colleagues and I were betting, if you could make it to 11 o'clock, you didn't make it. [[Jolly in the ranks of Members of the KSČM.]] But I must say that in all of your speech, we have found only a few comments which were directed towards the above-mentioned interpellation, which Mr Filip presented today. I must say that you can talk about your election program, about what you've done or would like to prove. Great, but I really don't think it has anything to do with the written interview we're discussing today. And allow me to respond again. Public health insurance covers all care. Well, you said a nice thing. I would even be interested in how you arrange expensive treatments with insurance companies that do not want to pay them and which are really dealt with individually, that is, with review doctors, and not all health care, whether it is children or adults, is covered. These are our citizens of the Czech Republic. This means public health insurance does not really pay all the care that is spent in health services. As regards non-profit organisations and their financing. I am very sorry that you have information that it is only a few tens of millions, because we are talking about several billions here. It also depends on how you take it, how they are financed by the state budget projects, subsidies and so on. When it adds up, it's really big, hundreds of millions of dollars and unfortunately the state doesn't want to control them in most cases. The question is why. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Maybe we could ask somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u23	Thank you. Next, Mr Jan Klán will speak with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u24	Thank you for the floor. Let me also respond to the Prime Minister. Control of non-profit organisations. I remember dealing with the problem in the contract register. Why are non-profit organisations not included in the register of contracts as recipients of public money? They're not there. Why aren't they there? Let's ask another question. There are nonprofit organizations that are certainly doing good work, such as caring for disabled people, disabled people, or seniors. Yes, I have no problem with that. I have a problem with special-purpose non-profit organizations, which is, for example, Man in Need. For example. These nonprofit organizations literally and into the letter milking the state. Yes, these nonprofits are milking the state! They're taking a lot of money, we don't know where! We don't know where. We've got a number, we've supported it this way. But where exactly did the money go, it's kind of unknown where, because they're not in the contract register. This has to do with it, and it was your social democracy that did not vote for this matter when the contract register was being discussed here. This would be perhaps the most transparent control to see where the money is and where it came from, who put what rewards, or it was all sent to some subversive and divisive action. I'm not saying it's gonna be necessary, but really think about it so that there are nonprofit organizations in the contract register.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u25	Thank you for keeping the time limit. Next, Mrs Pěnčíková will speak with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u26	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, you have challenged us here that if we have anything in particular, we should come up with it, put it on the table and discuss it. I don't know, but you and OKD have already shown us how you deal with things. I made a number of comments that I wanted to respond to because I listened really carefully to your chaotic election mix. But I'm going to sum it up pretty simple. We have a quarter past 11:00, and you obviously haven't woken up yet. Go get some coffee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u27	The Member has complied with the time limit. Next, Mr Leo Luzar will speak with a factual remark. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, you may have inadvertently raised a storm of questions and factual comments with your speech. You have decided to answer two specific questions in a form close to you. A very long speech, when you discussed it from a grain of sand to a seed planted and a grown tree that will grow out of this seed. But the questions were clear. And perhaps if you answered them clearly, everyone would be satisfied and this debate was not here. I, by coincidence, participated in a debate last month with non-profit organizations about the Czech Republic's foreign development cooperation with a question of what quality it should maintain and how to further develop it. No one in this hall is questioning the basics of development aid and cooperation. What you're saying is that teach them to plant that seed to grow from it, and that grain to process and bake bread to eat. The problem here is that political influence parasites these organizations. Political influence trying to influence events in the particular countries where they operate. By means of selection, where I will give the help, to whom I will give it, to which group I will add it, what form this assistance is. Even nonprofit organizations themselves point out that this is a huge risk to their activities abroad. Doctors without borders may not take help from Austria because they determine where to go, and they reject it because it is the political influence of the country. And it's a huge problem for the nonprofit sector that has been hit by parasites who are trying to influence this power politically. And that is the question that has been raised here, how do we control it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u29	Your time, excellent, you've kept it for a second. Thank you. That's the end of factual remarks. It is now for President Marek Černoch with priority rights, after whom Vice-President Filip will be prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, Mr President, I will begin by replying to Mr Klán's remark, which said that foundations and nonprofit organizations should be subject to a register of contracts. I suggested it on the Constitutional Legal Committee, when a register of contracts was being discussed to include nonprofit organizations, foundations, foundations, etc., because if they are managing public money, it is necessary that they be under control, because really the way this area is included is unbelievable. To the Prime Minister. At the end of his speech, the Prime Minister said that he guaranteed the transparency of every crown that flows through nonprofit organizations. I drew up the reply that came to the Office of the Government, when the Office of the Government sent a request for the annual report of the Hate-Free Culture project and the list of persons involved in the project. The answer that came on 6 April 2016 has one essential paragraph, namely: As for your request to send Hate-Free Culture's annual report, I would like to inform you that annual reports are not produced for the campaign itself and therefore for the Hate-Free Culture project. However, on the website you can look at the annual reports of the Agency for Social Inclusion, which ensures the whole project. So they made it clear to you that they won't give you any information on this project. If you look at the annual report of the Agency for Social Inclusion in 2015, the total funds exhausted, the amount of CZK 39 million 16,000 183. There are boxes here that certainly don't talk about some transparency, let it be employee salaries, a total of 8 million, other personal expenses a total of 5.5 million. What's that for, Mr. Prime Minister? Do you know what the money's for? Hate-Freee is not a nonprofit organization, although it all looks that way. It's a campaign. There are no clear parameters for what the money they spend, where the money goes. There are a lot of items and boxes that are pretty misleading around here. I've been trying to find out how many employees are involved in the Hate-Free Culture, information that the Office of the Government has asked for. There's ten people there. They've got millions. You said it was only millions of crowns moving in these waters. It is tens to hundreds of millions, really, believe me, because other information Organization for Refugee Assistance, Association for Integration and Migration, Integration Counseling, Multicultural Centre Prague, Association of Citizens dealing with immigrants, Lačhe Čhave, I have never heard that, so it is tens of millions. A man in distress is CZK 249 million. That's where the money goes, Prime Minister. And you said here that your government did its best and that in the future you promised to valorize pensions, that money would go to pensions. I mean, there was an option. Four years was an opportunity to valorize those pensions. It didn't happen. And finally. If you want to find money, it's on one server, and I think it's trustworthy, because today it's divided into credible and untrustworthy, there's this article. Billions for participation. The Czech Republic pays for membership of hundreds of international organizations, but there are doubts about their usefulness. Just by chance. European Organization for Astronomical Research in the Southern Hemisphere - 41 million 254 thousand a year. And that's just a grain, there's a lot of agencies here, it goes into billions of crowns. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Education, Defence etc. contribute to this. etc. Here's the money, the money that goes into a sphere where there's no way to trace it. Money that could possibly be used to valorize pensions or health care or education or any other meaningful and effective purpose for citizens of the Czech Republic. I have never questioned the help of people in need, as you have been talking about, people who are going through hell in Syria today. There really has to be a way to help these people. But there are hundreds of millions, maybe billions that run away through the black hole and certainly don't help people even abroad, and they don't help people in the Czech Republic at all. And I think that it should be the responsibility of every politician to try to help people here in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with the Prime Minister's point of view, then Mr Plzák's point of view. Your two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u32	Dear colleagues, we all know how it was when the contract register was discussed, and there was this proposal that contracts should also be published by nonprofit organizations, associations, etc. Would you like firemen, beekeepers, gardeners, Falcon, the Red Cross in that village to be burdened by having to publish all the contracts? And otherwise the contracts will be void? Would you really like to burden all these associations in the body by having to publish all the contracts? That's why it wasn't approved here. Because a number of Members just didn't want us to piss off all the associations all over our country by having to publish contracts because otherwise it would be invalid, and if firefighters just buy something in the village and forget to publish the contract, then someone will turn them in and be prosecuted and investigated for embezzling money there. Do we really want to burden all these people who care about federal life, free of charge, in their free time, with this bureaucracy and administration? I wouldn't do that. I'd just warn you about it. Let's not bother voluntary firefighters, let's not bother athletes, let's not bother hunters, gardeners, fishermen by putting this bureaucratic nonsense on them. When the subsidy is given, the person who grants the subsidy has every right to check what the funds have been used for, and the State does it in this way. So no billions without control. And if there's money, they go to specific projects. And I don't think you need to remind our government that we need to help in Syria. We are one of the few countries in the world that provides humanitarian aid directly in Syria, we have been doing this for several years. And again, I'm proud of people who help with Syria this way because they help the disabled, help civilians, help the children. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u33	Thank you. Now, with Mr Plzák's factual remark, I took the liberty of making a factual point. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Prime Minister, I'll respond to you first. I wouldn't stand at all for the Red Cross, for example, to be under such supervision, because, you can find that, for example, in the Hradec Králové Region, some of the negotiations that took place in the Red Cross ended in court, even as they succeeded there. So it's on the edge. And then I wanted to say something, like a fellow Černoch here said. I would also add one grain. As you know, the Committee on Petitions is one of the committees approving the budget of the Office of the Government, and a single Member voted in favour of the budget of the Office of the Government, Prime Minister, if you are listening to me. And you know why? You're not listening to me, so I'll tell the others. This was mainly due to opaque non-profit organizations called because it is not an official name, and the highlight of everything was that we were there looking for what everything and what programs the Office of the Government was arranging, and I was interested, for example, in the programme for the development of donation. We asked what it was. Is that like a blood donation or something? And it was explained to us by a responsible official of the Office of the Government who was at that meeting that apparently nonprofit organizations, but we will simply encourage rich people to spend their money on some commendable projects. Is that possible? If someone's a philanthropist, they'll just give the money, but I can't imagine why we as a state have to spend some resources to encourage people to become philanthropists. I really don't understand this. And it was also the last dot that led to your budget not being approved on our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u35	Thank you, Mr Plzák, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now Vice-President Radek Vondráček with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u36	Thank you for the floor. The contract register came up, so of course it won't let me get out. I feel a little bit like I'm being set up. I do not agree that this legislation on foundations and associations would not be adopted because we did not want to burden beekeepers, or settlers. If these associations manage public funds and exceed a certain financial limit, there is no legal reason why they should not be included in the contract register. The reason why this amendment was not adopted was that it was legally miswritten. In short, there was some financial limit, but it was no longer clear what financial year the funds were spent, whether it was in that particular year or in the previous year. And the text, as it was presented to Parliament, would raise great interpretational problems and, given the brutal penalty for the full annulment of the treaty, it was unacceptable to me on the constitutionally legal committee. It's not too late. We have this thing now in the Senate. And I would raise my hand to publish associations of their contracts if they exceeded a certain financial limit, because it has actually been said here several times today, there are cases that give rise to some concern, and the register of contracts would benefit these organizations if they were to publish them. But it has to be well written. That is what I wanted to tell you in the light of this factual point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u37	I thank the Vice-President for his time, and we will have to exchange because I will still have my final performance. Now, Mr Klán, with a factual point, will also be prepared by President Sklenák with a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u38	Thank you for the floor. Let me respond to Vice-President Vondráček through you. You know, I'm fascinated if you've known about the problem for a year, why didn't you modify the amendment when it was being discussed here? You just talk about it, you talk about it, and then you don't vote for it anyway! That's what I always enjoy and fascinate about the contract register, like you guys always do in a little bit of Solomon, but don't worry, I'll tell myself when the contract register is probably coming back from the Senate, just so we're clear. In the contract register, of course, it was about the financial limit of, like, three million, and we could've figured it out here in the last year or in some way in six months or whatever. I said here that nonprofit organizations are really milking the state. We don't know where the money goes, but it's a paradox that nonprofit organizations are pushing the register of contracts! They pushed him all the time, and suddenly they said, "We don't want to be there!" Just in case. What if we found out where the money was going? I really experienced it when I was at CEVRO when I was dealing with this problem, so the representatives from the State Reconstruction actually told me: you know, we don't have much problem with it, but if by chance and we don't know, and if something happens to be found out, and it is so weird and there are problems if nonprofit organizations were there, and we don't know how we would deal with it. So ask yourself why they're pushing the contract register for nonprofit organizations and they don't want to be there. Because they want to weaken the position of the national state and then replace it! This is the purpose of nonprofit organizations in the world according to George Soros. It really does exist, we're the only ones who act like it's not. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, therefore, the factual comment of the Chairman of the ČSSD club Roman Sklenák, then Mrs Šánová, then Marek Černoch's factual comment, and then perhaps I will get to the point. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u40	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. She is getting a little bit from the original topic, but I too have applied with a response to the rhetorical question of Mr Černoch, why, therefore, this government, if it wants to valorize pensions, has not done so before. So I can only recapitulate all the steps on old-age pensions that this government and this coalition have done since the beginning of the parliamentary term. Firstly, one of the first steps that we met here after the elections was to return to the original issue of valorisation of old-age pensions, because the previous right-wing governments substantially reduced the pace of pension valorisation. So we came back from the first steps to valorizing by a third of wage growth and inflation. At the same time, we passed a law that we did an extraordinary valorization, because the legal one would be substantially low. That's when the House approved this, which made it a special valorization so it wouldn't be low. We wanted to repeat this step for another year, but we didn't find any support for this, so at that time we made at least a one-time contribution to all pensioners amounting to CZK 1,200, if you remember. Then we pushed forward the next step so that if the legal valorisation still goes below 2.7 percent of the average pension, so that the government can reach that level of pension. And now we will negotiate and vote next week on whether we will not change the valorisation mechanism on the basis of my amendment that it would be not only a third of the growth in real wages, but a half, and not general inflation, but inflation, so-called retirement, which would mean that pensioners would have on average an additional CZK 500 higher pensions. So that's all we've been doing. We've been supporting a group here for four years, such as old-age pensioners or families with children. So that question was absolutely not appropriate!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u41	Thank you, Mr Roman Sklenák, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now Mrs Zuzana Šánová's factual comment, then she will be prepared with the factual remark of Marek Černoch. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u42	Hello. Mr Prime Minister, through Mr President, there is an obligation in the register of contracts to publish contracts over 50,000. Do you think those organizations you've been so heartfelt and pathetic about making contracts over 50,000? You're often glad they live off the contributions to those villages!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u43	Thank you. Mr Marek Černoch's point of fact, then the Prime Minister's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u44	Černoch man, Mr President. [[It's pronounced prominently.]] Still Black.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u45	I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u46	It's okay. Thank you for your word. The register of contracts and what the Prime Minister said. This isn't really about, like you said, gazing at little associations of beekeepers and settlers and doggers and the like. It's from a certain height. In some way, no one wanted to chase any more those who care about it and try to work with the youth and try to develop it in some way in the villages, but people who work with state money from a certain height. That's one part. [[10.40 hours]] The answer to your view towards us in the framework of helping Syria. I don't know if you know this, Prime Minister, but our colleague Mr. Andrle did a collection and we sent the aggregates to Syrian hospitals. The media doesn't like to write about this because it's not exactly sexy, but it's true. We're really trying to help. And if we are trying to prevent something, it is illegal migration of illegal migrants, radicals, to the Czech Republic. And the last, through you, to a colleague of Sklenák. You said you were trying to get ahead. You've got most of it. The entire time of this House, your coalition has a majority. You had the opportunity to enforce the laws. You've pushed for others. You could have enforced these laws. I think that our colleague Jana Hnyková, who fought very hard for this, contributed very much to a one-off contribution. We helped. Although we are opposition, so constructive. We helped. Then don't say it wasn't fair. It was fair. You could have done much more, you didn't. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u47	I thank Mr Marek Černoch for his speech, for keeping up with the time. Now, the Prime Minister's point of order. Then the factual remark of President Kováčik. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u48	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that these words have appeared here about the limit for non-profit organizations, because it really frightened me that someone here in the Chamber of Deputies would still want to go to associations in the countryside, mostly in the countryside, but of course also in cities, to civic associations that arise there because of sport or because they care for children in the maternity center, or for volunteer firefighters or simply for athletes from Sokol or from Eagle, from ČSTV or from successor organizations, that you would like to impose an obligation on them to register contracts. What else are these people supposed to do? I'm just pointing out that these people do it for free. They're not paid for it. Of course, they have trouble finding the money to pay the accountants if they already have some bigger financial expenses. And that's 50 miles. For example, if you rent a gym for a whole year or if you pay buses for kids to play football to drive them to matches for a whole year, it's very easily over 50 thousand. You'll get the crown. With the fire department, you also have the expenses involved. So it's not true that there's no spending more than 50 miles. Crowns. I would really just like to challenge the sněmovna: for God's sake, go back to real life! Don't piss off people who do a lot of good work in their communities and cities, whether they're firemen or people who take care of children in sports, children's leisure and youth, or do federal life, such as gardeners, beekeepers and others. Leave these people alone! Let's give them a hand and not bother them with any more bureaucracy. So if you want to introduce and expand a register of contracts here, please put a limit on not bothering these people, because that would be a very negative signal that this House of Deputies would send them. And I will never vote for anything like that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u49	I thank the Prime Minister for keeping time on the point of fact. Now a factual comment by the chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask, let us not take into our mouths a breeder, a gardener, a beekeeper, a hunter, a fisherman. Let's not put them in our mouths when it suits us! Let me just remind you that we've already loaded them up enough, for example. a new Civil Code. And who approved it? Who voted for him? That we've put a lot of pressure on these associations, for example. EET. Who voted in favour? Who approved it? Who brought it? And now it's as good as defending them. Please, the contract register we're talking about. I think it sounded like a lot of times around here. Those who draw money, those who don't vote, God knows who to pay, should present their bills where the money goes. And now, yes, they were here for example. Those who spread billboards around the Republic with a face e.g. Mr Klán or Urban, with how they have relieved this Republic of its obligation to register contracts for one or another. Those who spend money not only on taxpayers, but God knows what sponsors from abroad to influence public opinion, they mean. Leave beekeepers and gardeners alone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u51	I thank Mr Pavel Kováčik. Now Mr Soukup's point of fact, then Mr Fiedler's proper application. And I'm applying with my final performance on this interview. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u52	I basically wanted to say what my colleague Kováčik was talking about. Prime Minister, we don't talk about boobies, firefighters, falcons, etc. You need to talk about the Open Fund Society here. There's a need to talk about a člověk in distress. Here it is necessary to talk about these organizations, where tens of thousands of crowns are not spinning, etc., but where tens of millions are spinning, maybe hundreds of millions in the case of člověk in distress.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u53	Thank you, Mr Soukupa, for keeping time on the point of fact. Mr Karel Fiedler's proper application now. Then, Mr. Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u54	After all, I have waited, but I will try to make sure that the final word of Mr. Filip is still in place. What we saw or heard in the Prime Minister's reply. Prime Minister, I'm sorry, there was very little. What my colleague Aulická said earlier about what we asked here or what the original question was. It was a little election campaign. We have made our way to promoting pro-export policy from non-profit organizations. It's a really wide shot. If we want to paralyze the House's course or simply dissipate the matter, let us take the floor of Prime Minister Sobotka. It's gonna get really hot and we're gonna get off the subject. I think it's very important now, my colleague Šánová spoke about it - she's not here anymore. On the petition committee, the reason we didn't approve the budget chapter of the Office of the Government was really nonprofit organizations. And I can tell you that the only vote in favour was because the member of your MP did not have the courage to vote. Otherwise, he was actually convinced that he should vote with us. Efficiency. It's not that money is being spent, that it may be hypothetically proven that the money has been spent, but efficiency. That's what always bothered me. What I asked the representative of the Office of the Government when we approved the chapter. Integration of inadaptable citizens. How many millions did it cost? Dozens of millions over the years and hundreds of millions. And what's the result? When I asked the famous nonprofit organization of the year, which deals with this activity, whether they could prove how many of these unadaptable citizens remained in employment after three months, after half a year or after a year, they did not know. They don't even care. He's just interested in the fact that the money goes, that we're showing the activity. She's like she's being made, but if it has an effect, if there's any point, that's completely irrelevant. And yet it's like you mentioned here, some nonprofit organization. Mother and child in Chad, drought in Ethiopia. I totally agree with that. It's humanitarian action, yes. Did this help to reduce migration? Did it have any effect? I think it's very small. That the money is somewhere... How many of these sums have actually gone to where it was supposed to go? Dry in Chad. How much money I don't know was built by a well? One? Two? Eighty percent were directed? Wasn't that kind of a private travel agency? I don't know. I have serious doubts that I do. Why are nonprofit organizations so prevented from having to publish their expenses in the contract register? When you said that our health system fully covers all expenses. Excuse me, that's absolute bullshit. We know how much we pay out of our own. How many seniors do they have there are five grand limit on meds? Then why are the collections made? Why are the eyelids gathering? Why are there different collections where the mother cries out that our medical facility, our medical system doesn't do the surgery the child needs? Please, he's crying. Collections are being made so operations can be done abroad. That doesn't work. We have clear, tangible evidence that this isn't working. I disagree, sir... Then why are the collections made? Because health insurance companies refuse to pay for it! So the claim that everything is covered, I absolutely cannot agree with that. [[10.50 hours]] I myself have proposed some amendments to the budget where I did not want to take it, but I have made it necessary that funds be paid to certain non-profit organisations only after the effectiveness of their activities has been demonstrated. The House didn't approve, it was futile, so what can I say? I think a colleague of Černoch and a number of my previous speakers have said it very correctly, I will not delay any longer. It's not just that it proves that the money is being spent, it's whether it was spent purposefully, if it made any sense, if it made any difference. I don't think so. I am convinced that in many cases not. Let's not put everyone in one bag. As I say, maybe you'll be surprised, paradoxically, not to throw all the executive authorities in one bag, let's not put all the nonprofits in the same bag. But I have my doubts about the fact that there are a lot of those where it's just a black hole for somebody's benefit. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u55	I thank Mr Fiedler. Now three factual points. The first is Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, then Mr Jiří Holeček and then Mr Premier. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have a factual comment on Mr Soukup's speech, which has just left. Mr Soukup, through Mr President, the Prime Minister knows very well which non-profit organizations are being talked about here, and he is only deliberately flattering this microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u57	Thank you. Now a colleague of Jiří Holeček. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Just a reaction to the Prime Minister. Prime Minister, you mentioned here that you wouldn't want to bother sports associations by registering contracts. It is necessary to separate the sports associations into large and small. There are sports clubs here, mostly small clubs that no one wants to bother. But then there are also large sports associations that draw tens and hundreds of millions of crowns from the state budget, which have recently been found to be controlled by the Ministry of Finance, such as the Volleyball Union, that there is a suspicion of subsidy fraud, that there is a constant violation of budgetary discipline. And here we need to control these big sports associations, such as the Olympic Committee, the volleyball union, the football union, the hockey union, the tennis union. These associations need to record their contracts because there is a constant violation of budgetary discipline in the order of tens of millions of crowns. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u59	I thank Mr Jiří Holečka. Now with a factual remark from the Prime Minister, then a factual comment from Mr Klán, then Marek Černoch. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u60	Do you know why I was talking about health care and why I was talking about pensions? Because Vice-President Filip has built it so that because of development aid and humanitarian aid, we cannot afford pensions, that we are unable to treat our patients here because of development aid and humanitarian aid. I have made it clear that the government has a prioritization of pensions as its priority, and the government has a health priority as its priority. It's definitely not development aid, humanitarian aid, MEDEVAC. They're not at the expense of treating our patients and they're not at the expense of valorizing pensions. That's how it is. And as for health care, I don't think there's a need to repeat the banal truths that there's a prescription for medication. We have suggested that the protection limits for seniors and children be reduced, which means that they will pay less and health insurance companies will pay them back more. I'm hoping you'll all encourage that Minister Ludvík's proposal to pass, because it's gonna lower the medical fees for seniors and lower the medical fees for families with children. So please, this proposal is here, it needs to be discussed, it needs to be approved, if you're worried about the medical bills. Yes, there's a supplement for medication, health care isn't free, as some say. They pay for medicines and they also pay for health insurance. Health care is then provided on the basis of payment of health insurance. But if some collections are organized, I would always be very warned not to verify what these collections are doing, if the media stories that are being told to us sometimes really have a basis for reality. This is always good to check, this is always good to check, because the way we've been talking about these different activities, not all of these activities are okay. Many of these activities aim not to fund treatment, but aim to improve conditions, improve the environment in hospitals, provide care for parents, advise in crisis situations. So many of these collections are not organized as replacement treatments, but they serve here in this way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u61	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now Mr Jan Klán's point of fact, then Mr Marek Černoch and then Mr Kováčik and four other entries. Before that, I will say that with the replacement card number 70, Mrs Wernerová votes. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u62	Thank you for the floor. Let me get back to these nonprofit organizations a little bit more. When I was in that panel discussion about the relationship between the contract register and state-owned enterprises, I was fascinated by how she was making excuses for the obligation to be on that State Reconstruction registry. She said, "We're not really recipients of public money, we just don't have anything to do with the contract register." And so I didn't linger and I watched how they were funded, how they were supported, and that they were supported by private capital, but I also found out that in many cases they were supported by some foundation. Now look at this. They're not directly beneficiaries of public money, but they're getting money from some foundation somewhere. Not to mention, there's gonna be some - I don't know - hundreds of thousands of dollars coming into that account, and then they're gonna do a nice billboard like they did to me for hiding something. It's not true, I didn't hide anything. I protect state enterprises from overwhelming globalization and private competition. I just don't want nonprofit organizations to weaken the national state's position. That's why I'm saying these big nonprofit organizations, whether it's State Reconstruction, whether it's Man in Need, and I don't know what else, so let them be listed in that contract register, let them be there. Normally, they're going to be listed one by one, and they're going to publish it to avoid the little ones being there. I agree, of course, with you through Mr Holeček. Yeah, let's get those big unions in there. 'Cause that's where the money gets quietly -- somebody's gonna put some kind of reward, somewhere it's wandering around, somewhere it's gonna get pretty nasty, and then it's hard to check when it's lost somewhere. My colleague says it's going to get lost in marketing. [[He's laughing.]] So there's more possibilities and I'm saying--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u63	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time to make a point of fact. Now my colleague, Mr Marek Černoch, also with a point of fact, then President Kováčik, and then I will interrupt the debate on this subject with valid factual remarks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u64	I will respond through you to my colleague Holeček. You said tens and hundreds of millions. The exact number - in 2015 the football association received 314 million from the state budget. Crowns. I don't think they're gonna get the money from some little clubs, poking around villages that really enjoy it. This money is divided into completely different spheres. These are precisely those income groups that should be subject to a register of contracts where it should be clear what money is paid for. Unfortunately, it's not. The same is true, so why don't young Judaists, for example, get money, who really go at it with the heart, when they try to lead young children or especially young boys to engage in sports instead of different games. They're grateful for every crown. Soccer Association gets 314 miles. CZK, almost half a billion crowns. That's unfair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. The final factual point in this matter - Mr Pavel Kováčik. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u66	Thank you for the floor. Sometimes I like having the last word. Most of the time, it's not. Nor will that be the last word in this debate, because we will continue next time. But I want to do one thing here. Maybe it was just a mistake, maybe it was just a slip. The Prime Minister has stated here that Deputy Prime Minister Filip has indicated something. I want to say that I am very much opposed to this mistake. We really weren't in this government, we're not, and we won't be, because this government isn't our government, we didn't support it, and I think - and we've shown it ourselves - that it's been enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u67	I thank the President of the KSČM parliamentary club. I am in a difficult situation because I cannot defend myself at this point, I have no right as chairman to speak to certain things when I am replaced. As the eleventh hour is approaching, I would like to say before that I am interrupting the point of reply to the written interpelations of Members who have expressed discontent, paragraph 288, by remaining my application for a proper debate, Mr Mackovík's application, Mrs Hnyková's and Mrs Pastuchová's comments on this interview are factual. So now we're going to deal with this because it's 11 o'clock, the other points of our negotiations. Before I open the other points, we have a number of apologies and then proposals to change the agenda of the meeting, which will not take place until after 11:00 on Thursday during the written interviews. First, the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Between 10.30 and 16.00, Mr František Laudát apologizes, between 14.30 and 16.00 the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek, President of Jaroslav Faltýnek, apologizes between 12 and 18 pm, Mr Sedláček apologizes from 10 a.m. to the end of the day, Mr Martin Novotný apologises from today's meeting for personal reasons throughout the day and between 9 and 11 p.m. Mr Jeroný Tejc apologizes, from 10 a.m. to the end of the day he apologizes to Mrs Pavla Golasowská and Mr Vyzula apologizes between 11 and 16 p.m.m. He also apologizes from 11 to 12.15 Mr David Kasal and Mrs Anna Putnová from 12 to 16 o'clock. These were the excuses received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and we can continue according to the approved agenda. But before that, I will hear your suggestions, and we will vote on proposals for a possible change in the agenda. The first candidate to change the agenda is Mr Robin Böhnisch. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u68	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to propose two modest and brief changes to the programme. I would like to propose a firm inclusion of paragraph 177 - which is the House Press 1022, which is the proposal of 101 Members of this House on two new important days - on 25 April as the second point, i.e. the already fixed point 63, and then as the third point on the same day, that is, on Tuesday 25 April, item 23, House Press 742, which is the amendment to the Act on the Protection of Animals against Abuse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u69	Yes, so we're going to vote each proposal separately because it doesn't concern the same thing. Now, Mrs Věra Kovářová, who also proposes a change in the agenda. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, let me propose a solid inclusion of paragraph 245, which is the proposal of Members Věra Kovářová, Jan Farský and others, and concerns the Act on Traffic on the Road, i.e. simplifying the issue of driving licences and disengagement of local jurisdiction. I would like to propose this point for tomorrow, Friday 7. 4., after already firmly ranked points as point six.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-001-288.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová. Does anyone else have a motion to change the agenda? It's not like that. We can therefore vote individually, as the proposals have been tabled. First of all, we will vote on Mr Robin Böhnisch's proposal for a solid inclusion. I'm gonna sign you all out, I'm gonna get you guys in the lobby so those in the lobby can get a vote. Please log in with your ID cards. We will be voting on the fixed classification of item 177, print 1022, on 25. Fourth, Tuesday, second point, for point 63. We will decide in the vote the order number 157, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 157, from the present 97 for 63, against 15. The motion was accepted. Now we will vote that item number 23, print 742 at second reading, is Tuesday 25. Third item in the hearing. I've started voting number 158 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 158, from 100 Members present for 38, against 38. The motion was not accepted. We will now vote on Mrs Věra Kovářová's proposal on the solid inclusion of paragraph 245, press 807, as the sixth point of our meeting tomorrow, i.e. on Day 7. 4. after fixed points. I've started voting number 159 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 159, from the present 101 Members for 76, against 16. The motion was accepted. So we adjusted two points of our meeting, tomorrow and day 25. 4. Today's day remains untouched, so we're going to continue with the fixed points, and these are the contracts that we're supposed to put forward. We begin with point 220, will follow points 221, 222, 215, 227, 219 and then other points from the block of contracts in the first or second reading or, if possible, reports if possible. Now we have a point 220 ahead of us. At the rapporteur's table is the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. I will ask the same of Mr Jiří Mihola, who I do not see. [[A Member of Mihola is present, coming from the government benches.]] Well, I'm sorry, but once he's here, it's okay. The rapporteur is here, in which case we can start discussing the following point. [[Noise in the hall.]] Calm down, ladies and gentlemen.
