ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u1	229. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016 /German press 996/ - second reading I ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to take the floor. Before doing so, I will ask that the rapporteurs be prepared, namely the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, Mr Leo Luzar and the rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Ondřej Benešík. Mr Luzar is the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, so he will take up a position at the rapporteur's table. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u2	Thank you, good noon, ladies and gentlemen. I've actually talked about this subject and the deal several times, so I'm gonna try to cut it short. This is therefore the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its States and Canada, on the other hand. This raises attention, which is sometimes due to the combination of this with the comprehensive Economic and Trade Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and Canada, which is called CETA. Let me start by pointing out that, in this case, we are not discussing this CETA trade agreement, that this is only the one before the general agreement on a strategic partnership, that the topic of this cooperation between the European Union and Canada is the fight against terrorism, the fight against organised crime, the fight against illegal migration, migration issues. And then there are general topics such as promoting sustainable development, promoting research, but also, of course, cultural cooperation and so on. [[12.40 hours]] I have also talked a long time about my trip to Canada and about the fact that today is quite a very convenient time for the development of Canadian-Czech relations, because I think that there are currently many reasons in Canada that I do not want to repeat here, a very favorable atmosphere for cooperation with the Czech Republic. And I think that there is even going to be a way for Members, I think, the House to Canada, so I believe that approving this agreement would be very helpful to the atmosphere and development. I don't want to repeat what I've been saying in the past. So I'm just reminding you that it's this point that we're at second reading, and I wish we could end it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u3	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. This House press has been ordered to discuss the Foreign Committee and the Committee on European Affairs. The resolution of both committees has been delivered to you as House prints 996/1 and 996/2. Now, in the order of the foreign committee rapporteur, Mr Leo Luzar, with his report, will be prepared by the rapporteur, Mr Ondřej Benešík. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Foreign Committee dealt with this Treaty at its 33rd meeting on 19 April 2017. There was quite an extensive debate on this treaty, in which I tried to discuss this Treaty in more detail on the foreign committee. I will not burden in my report, I am entered in the general debate, or in the general debate I will try to explain what I see a problem. Now, let me just read the Foreign Committee resolution, and in a detailed debate, I will sign up to it. Resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 33rd meeting of 19 April 2017 on the Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016, by the House press 996. After the justification of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs . Miloslav Stašek, Mr Leo Luzar's report and after the debate, the Foreign Committee first recommends The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016. Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and thirdly empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. - Which I did.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u5	I thank the rapporteur of the Foreign Committee, and before my colleague Benešík reaches the counter, I am merely stating the apology of Mr Stanislav Huml, who apologizes for today's meeting for family reasons for the whole day. Now, rapporteur for the Committee on European Affairs, Ondřej Benešík. You have the floor, rapporteur. If I may ask, Mr. Rykala's apology has come up, so I'll be over it all of a sudden. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly inform you of the progress of the negotiations on this press on the Committee on European Affairs. We discussed this press on 21 March 2017. The Committee on European Affairs of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, after hearing the information of the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Lukáš Kaucký, after hearing Mr Ondřej Benešík's report and after the debate, first recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and Canada, on the other, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016. Secondly, it empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Finally, I would just like to add what Minister Zaorálek has already mentioned here, this Treaty is not a CETA Treaty which raises some controversy and more debate. This is a framework agreement between the Member States of the European Union and Canada, which primarily addresses the fight against terrorism, including the financing of terrorism, which is very important. They address the fight against organised crime or such matters as the fight against poverty or the sharing of information and cooperation in the field of humanitarian or development aid, respectively. cooperation between Canada and EU Member States in the fields of science, research and innovation. So I briefly described some of the basic points that this Strategic Partnership Treaty addresses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u7	I thank the rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Ondřej Benešík, and I open the debate at second reading on this Treaty. The first enrollment is Mr Tomio Okamura. I don't see him, so his application is failing. And I will call on Mr Leo Luzar to speak. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, thank you for the floor. I wanted to allow a colleague of Okamur, who has long been enrolled to appear in front of me. Unfortunately, he's not here, so I'm going to try to sum up things that I consider a little problematic. The history of the treaty is a bit clouded, let's say, by the problems raised by a much more widely known treaty, a treaty between the United States of America and the European Union, so-called. TTIP. In the background of this Treaty, Canada, as a partner of the United States of America in another trade agreement, NAFTA, where Mexico is still Mexico, felt the need to deal with the European Union as well, I will take the'self-own' approach. Since, of course, the United States of America, which began trade negotiations with the European Union, although bound by this NAFTA trade agreement with Canada and Mexico, tried to gain a slightly more advantageous position. [[12.50 hours]] Canada has not been lazy and has also started negotiating with the European Union. For information, we might take the view that Canada, although according to the map - if you look at geographical maps - is a very large state, the population does not reach the size of Poland. That contrast, perhaps even then, to the next point that we're going to discuss, that's point 236, it's going to be all the more interesting if I compare numbers. But I'm really going back to the strategic partnership agreement. This agreement is interesting to me for one simple reason. After the huge problems raised by the TTIP Treaty in the context of negotiations, I believe that Brussels bureaucracy has decided to divide the original draft contract into two sub-contracts. The first, so-called - I call it a business-friend contract, which should not arouse too much emotion, and the second, so-called business, business contract - that is, the House press 236 - workingly called CETA. That friend contract - I dare to use that term - is actually a declaration. Here were some points on the declaration of the fight against terrorism, the fight against money laundering. I dare not agree with this view, because the treaty is completely redundant from my point of view. Both Canada and the Czech Republic have the same values, the same democratic principles, the same legal order, the same trade order. It is simply comparable to the civilization, economically, politically, economically comparable country with the Czech Republic, namely with the European Union, and therefore the authors of this Treaty have been very, very hard to draw up an agreement to which we should aim. International agreements should be that two Contracting Parties, in this case the European Union and Canada, agree on a common path, a common procedure that would enable both parties to function. Here in this Treaty, which speaks, for example, in Article 2, the promotion and promotion of democratic principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms. Does anyone want to tell me that someone in the Czech Republic, as a matter of fact, in the European Union, we have a problem with this? Or that we have a problem with this in Canada? It's a declaration. The Declaration, yes, we are the same, we operate the same way, and there is nothing theoretically to confirm in this treaty and say "we confirm that we respect human rights." In Title III, International peace, security and effective multilateralism. This is a certain reservation that I made to the committee, because I think that in some of the articles that we are talking about here, we are a little bit further, even considering that we are living in a certain current security situation, and multilateral ties and relationships are slightly different from the time when this treaty was formed. I will not call for a revision of this, of course, but I consider it a possible and beneficial procedure in the future - and this procedure is made possible in this treaty, here I might be wronging it, but in this treaty the future procedure is allowed, within the framework of the annual evaluation and negotiation of the procedure between the two groups, i.e. on the one hand, Canada, on the other hand, the European Union, to work on this. What I thought was a little smiley, but perhaps the problem in the future was Article 4 Handguns and Light Weapons, because the Czech Republic is one of the largest exporters of this article and Canada is not, so that it does not accidentally adversely turn against us and our business interests, when we promise to pay attention and inform and pay attention to these weapons, this export article of ours does not offer third parties and not go to an illegal market. Here I would like to draw attention to this case, which is probably no longer being discussed in the media, but until six months ago it was up to date when it was suspected that Czech weapons were illegally disappearing to Africa and that some groups were behind it. This might even cause us a problem and, on this basis, the European Union could start talking about the necessity of that shameful law or that shameful regulation that forces the Czech Republic to restrict the ownership of legally held weapons. It is clear that we are both states, or both groups, part of the Rome Statute, which means the International Court of Justice. I'm just curious here at this point about the situation that, as we say here, we're going to be working on other people who aren't in this, in this specific club of international law, to enter it. I would like to hear here in particular how Canada will operate on the United States of America, with which it has the closest relations in the surrounding countries to join this club, especially after the experience that the United States has with its troops abroad. I'm really interested in this. And if there was that mention that Canada would put pressure on the United States of America, I would probably be the first person to vote in favour. I consider it a disgrace to international law that one of the greatest gendarmes of international law in its concept, i.e. The United States of America is not part of this criminal tribunal and refuses to join it. In Article 6, it is mentioned by the Minister, which means cooperation in the fight against terrorism. It is probably a shame to repeat that both sides recognise that the fight against terrorism is a common priority. It is probably obvious that we share a common approach under the auspices of the United Nations. And I consider this to be the main thing that is declared, why we accept the contract, to be smiling. Especially when, as has been said here, the fight against terrorist financing is referred to in point 5 - I quote: In the area of combating terrorist financing, the Parties follow international recommendations issued by the Financial Action Committee. The word that does not say anything - does anyone want to tell me that when the Financial Action Committee on Combating Terrorism makes recommendations that Canada or the European Union will not abide by it without having this treaty concluded between them? I will move on and skip some articles that would certainly be worth quoting, and I will stop at Article 10, which I consider to myself is why two treaties or two agreements have been established - the one we are discussing now, the camaraderie, as I call it, and the other, commercial, CETA. In fact, Article 10 states: Promoting free trade and increasing investment. One. The Parties shall cooperate with a view to promoting the sustainable development of mutual trade and investment for mutual benefit, as provided for in a comprehensive agreement on economic and trade cooperation. In other words, the parties undertake to continue the second agreement, that is to say, in the agreement 236, the so-called CETA. That's exactly what I see in the problem that there's been a division. And under the impression of the friendship agreement between Canada and the European Union, the authors are trying to put in this Article 10 that we will aim and accept the House press 236, that is to say CETA, the European Union agreement - Canada. Interestingly, it may still be worth recalling Article 12 Sustainable Development. Here we quote an effort to work together to make progress with the Paris Agreement. Even in this House, the Paris Agreement has a slightly problematic passage in the framework of approval. We know from the latest report from the United States on the rejection of this agreement. Nevertheless, the European Union and Canada are developing cooperation in this area, or they are trying to conclude cooperation in this area, although the United States and Canada and Mexico are, in turn, bound in another business company, that is, NAFTA. And I don't know how far these things will go if all of these signatories don't respect this Paris agreement. I consider this to be a bit of a problem, but, of course, it is attributed to when this agreement arose. That is, it has not yet been known how the presidential elections in the United States will turn out, and it was not known that President Donald Trump will withdraw from this agreement. [[13.00 hours]] On the contrary, Article 16 speaks - promoting the diversity of cultural expressions, education and youth and interpersonal contacts. I will leave out the issues of multiculturalism and other matters here, but I am focusing on point 3: The Parties are trying to promote the diversity of cultural expressions, and, if appropriate, the promotion of the principles and objectives of the 2005 UNESCO Convention on the protection and promotion of the diversity of cultural expressions. Here I will briefly recall the resolution of this honourable House concerning UNESCO and its contradictory, I do not want to say a shameful statement in the context of political intervention or political struggle within the Middle East and the relationship between Israel and Palestine, when this honorable organization, which UNESCO has so far been, intensifies into political matters, and we are actually applying here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u9	Mr. Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment, ask you for a brief consultation on how long you think you're still performing, because you're being requested by Foreign Minister Zaorálek, and I have to decide in some way about taking a lunch break. [[Member Luzar off the microphone: there is still a lot to do.]] A lot more, so that's sad. The minister wanted to respond, I saw his application. In that case, since it's after 13 o'clock, I have no choice but to interrupt you completely, declare a lunch break. We will probably agree tomorrow morning on the continuation of this interrupted point with the fact that surely someone with his colleagues will read the continuation of this point. I apologize to the Minister for not getting into it, but he will be registered as duly entered into the debate. At this point, I'm declaring a lunch break. Meet me at 2:30 p.m. to discuss oral interventions that are drawn. I remind you that under the Rules of Procedure Act, when the Prime Minister's interpelations are exhausted - and the Prime Minister is duly excused, so they will certainly be exhausted very soon - Members who interpelise individual ministers, I ask that they come before 16 o'clock, because the interventions on individual ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic will certainly begin before 16 o'clock. Thank you and enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-08-ps2013-057-11-006-229.u10	Good afternoon, honourable Members. There aren't many of you true. We'll start with apologies first. Mr Pavel Šrámek apologizes today from 14:30 for work reasons, and Mrs Gabriela Pecková apologises today between 16 and 19 am also for work reasons. The next item is
