ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u1	14. Government bill amending Act No. 155/1995 Coll., on Pension Insurance, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 912/ - second reading Under the authority of the government and this bill submitted, the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will present Michaela Marksová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u2	Thank you again for your word. Mr Vice-President, Members, this bill concerns a single but significant issue, namely the establishment of a pension age at a fixed age limit where 65 years is proposed, and this law also provides for a review of the pension age at regular five-year intervals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u3	Thank you, Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee committee. The resolution of this committee has been delivered to you as House Press 912/1. I now ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Social Policy, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Good day or good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me put, as rapporteur for this press, just a few things that I think are the most important, which are linked to this law. It's about three things. It's what the secretary here said, and that's a 65-year-old ceiling. Then there is another matter and a change in the valorisation mechanism, which must also be underlined, where the third that has so far been used by the amendment changes, I mean a third of the average wage, to half the average wage. Those are the most important things. The Social Policy Committee discussed this bill at its meeting on 25 January. There aren't many amendments, you've heard that from me. So I'm just going to ask the House, in this spirit, to try to pass this law on, so that the guarantee committee can deal with it between second and third readings, which would follow on March 9th, when it's ready. That is all on my part so far and I expect a debate whether in general or then in a detailed discussion. Thank you, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate, in which Mr Vladislav Vilímec first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u6	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, the Master has taken this briefly. However, while I have been speaking to this House press at first reading, it is appropriate to make a few comments. As the Minister mentioned, this House press is actually re-fixing the retirement age to 65 years. I consider the fixation of retirement in the light of the fact that this applies equally to 2030 to be a completely representative problem in our pension system at present. You know that the last government had the political courage to abolish a fixed fixation of retirement age. This does not mean that a gradual revision was not envisaged according to the development of life expectancy or average life expectancy. In the meantime, if the fixation is set again, there will still be other governments. And we're sending a little bit of a bad signal to the public, because it's obvious that it's going to be different in 2030. At first reading, I presented examples here, from the explanatory memorandum presented in the assessment of the impact of the regulation of this bill. Proponents of the idea of resetting the retirement age claim that we are the only country in Europe where the retirement age is not fixed. Even if that were true, I don't see it entirely negative. But as the detailed reading of the explanatory statement turned out, it's not true. Some countries already have a mechanism according to which pension age is automatically extended, other countries already have an increasingly lower retirement age. Rather, the government wants to create an illusion with this measure that it is doing something about the pension system. She has managed, as we well know, to abolish the second pillar, now renewing the fixation of retirement age, but has not submitted any deeper reform and will probably not submit any more. He's gonna pay for delaying the necessary and substantial changes in his younger years today. Already, the transition to retirement is a significant moment with social implications. Our pension system actually relies on the ongoing pillar, and it does not ensure an adequate amount of pensions. He's extremely egalitarian. And if pensioners don't have any other funds saved up, then in many cases it really means a significant revenue drop. Unfortunately, the government abolished the possibility of saving for pensions for life under the second pillar and did not come up with any new concept. They're just inventing some parametric changes. On the weekend, I also read a report on the activities of the Expert Committee on Pension Reform last year, 2016. And when I read it, it's as if the main objective of the commission's work is to cancel the second pillar, and now it's actually on the spot. The main task of the Ministry of Social Affairs, as well as in relation to the pension commission, was to abolish pension reform with the fact that it would turn out somehow. It's gonna happen, but it's just gonna cost us a lot more. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] And now on to the amendment that President Zavadil referred to, which was adopted by the Social Committee. Yes, Mr Sklenák, as usual on the committee recently, has read the amendment. I admit - based on the recommendations of the pension committee. I want to be objective. According to her report of 17 permanent members present, 15. It should also be noted, however, that even in 2016, i.e. at the time of economic growth, the pension account was not settled and the parametric change associated with faster valorisation of the amount of pensions, in addition to the valorisation newly in the amount of one half of the real wage growth, was also possible to use the so-called "real wage." consumer basket of pensioners for the assessment of the inflation rate -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u7	I'm very sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I dare ask for peace in the Chamber. It will also concern your pensions, colleagues and colleagues, especially younger ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u8	Of course, this proposal, and this is b), will also have a relatively significant impact on the expenditure of the state budget. In the next five years, up to 27 billion. The Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs agreed on this. I admit I don't want to be here for low pensions. On the contrary. But parametric changes to the current pension system will not ensure a decent amount of pensions for the future either way. I have an ever stronger feeling about what I read in the pension committee report that at least some members of the committee still don't want to admit it. And I have the impression that the administration of the Department of Labour and Social Affairs doesn't entirely accept it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u9	I thank Mr Vilímc. Another duly signed is Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I will be quite brief because I feel like a person who calls when I speak to this question - in vain of my call. This proposal to put the retirement age on a 65-year level really doesn't solve anything. That it is argued that future pensioners will ensure some certainty, so I would like to say that such a proposal is, above all, uncertain. Because part of this proposal is also that every five years the entire situation of the pension account and demographic developments in society will be recounted, and only on the basis of these calculations will there be a real determination of the retirement age. So, on the contrary, future pensioners have a rather uncertain situation and an uncertain level of retirement age. It is true that the resources for the pension account are currently being bailed out relatively well. Yet we are constantly in deficit. Sources are also linked to the fact that minimum wages are constantly being raised and the associated additional pay rates and grades and, of course, more money is collected on social insurance contributions. I would also like to point out that the increased level of value added tax, which was intended to restore reform, which was, at least in some form, enforced by the former government and consisted in the fact that part of the compulsory contributions could be saved by the earners on their own pensions, so this failure was to be recovered from the increased collection of value added tax. Although the current government abolished reform, which was at least some, and did not bring any, it did not reduce the increased level of value added tax. I would like to say that the pension account deficit continues, and if we do not have broad agreement across the political spectrum and we do not evaluate all the data and indicators related to the state of the pension account for future generations, we will not solve anything at all. I am very sorry that the current government has not brought any pension reform at all, no proposal at all on how it wants to address the situation of pensioners in 20, 30 years, and that unfortunately, I must say, the Flood is currently governed by our style.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u11	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. The last so far duly entered into the general debate is Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, the main change in the government's proposal, i.e. the reduction of retirement age to 65, has been expressed here by both the previous speaker and many have spoken about it at first reading. Therefore, I just want to make a very brief comment on the amendment by the President of the ČSSD member Roman Sklenák - who I am sorry, unfortunately is not present at the moment - which is part of the resolution of the Committee on Social Policy. This proposal amends the valuation formula of the pension. It is now proposed that if the consumer price index of households is lower than the consumer price growth index of pensioners' households, the index of consumer prices of pensioners' households should be included in the calculation of valorisation. To put it simply, it is proposed to use the higher price increase for the valorisation of pensions. At the same time, it is proposed that half of this growth should be taken into account when raising pensions instead of a third of the growth in real wages. This should prevent the opening of scissors between the real wage level and the real pension level. I have no objection to the fact that the economy is succeeding, that this should also be reflected in the amount of pensions. I don't like the way it's supposed to be done. On the one hand, I think it's an intervention in a working formula that just makes it incomprehensible and the valorization system just complicates it. What bothers me, however, is that such an important change is presented only by a parliamentary proposal, that is, an amendment, and not through a government amendment. At the same time, pension approval has been amended several times in this parliamentary term. The proposed change did not go through internal or inter-ministerial commentary procedures. With such an important change, which will undoubtedly have significant financial implications for the state budget, I consider this to be a mistake. After all, the short explanatory report on the amendment, which is limited to three paragraphs, does not contain a calculation of the financial impact on the state budget. When we, from the opposition, put forward parliamentary proposals, we are often blamed for an inadequately prepared explanatory report, a lack of quantification of financial impacts, and so on. And then, in this particular case, the Prime Minister, the President of the strongest government member club, presents such important things through the amendments that would merit the standard course of the whole legislative process, including the possibility of commenting on the proposal in the commentary procedure. I will also mention marginally that this proposal is based on the proposal of the Pension Commission, which was also mentioned by Mr Vilímec, who is an advisory body under the auspices of the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Finance. Their proposals are subsequently referred to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and it is up to the Ministry to consider whether to submit them to the Government or to the Chamber of Deputies. In this case, all these articles were omitted. Again, I am not opposed to raising pensions, but I do not like the way in which this change takes place and how we are discussing it. And today it is another standard where we meet this, and again it is from one club, which also has the Ministry and at the same time the effort to change the amendments on the march quite fundamentally presented. I understand that we're going to be accused of this here, or it's going to be turned against us, that we're preventing an increase in pensions. No. Really, I stress one more time, no. I'm more concerned about not just looking at the valorisation mechanism, but really looking at the system as a whole. For four years, or now almost four years, three and a half years, no amendment or specific form of government pension system has been submitted. There has been no reform of the pension system to guarantee the sustainability of pensions for future generations as well. We repeat it here constantly from the opposition that you're just interrupting and not coming up with your own solution. This is another one of those examples. And I really think that this area deserves a very honest approach. Therefore, we should not go around the whole process by simply proposing amendments. I believe that you would be the first to scream if this were done in the case of other areas during the last parliamentary term. Even if I can't tell, I've never been here before. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u13	Thank you, ma'am. With priority rights, which you both have... [[Member Sklenák is reporting and the rapporteur Member has stumbled.]] Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u14	Thank you for the floor. So I understand that TOP 09 does not like these proposals. Under their governments, pensioners' incomes have fallen. But he simply cannot blame social democracy for trying to maintain at least a little dignity in the life of the elderly. And I, as a Member, have the right to table amendments. In particular, this amendment is based, as my colleague Pekarová rightly said, on the conclusions of the pension committee. This is supported by a very detailed analysis, a very detailed discussion on the Commission's premises. And, of course, the impacts are quantified and available. I believe that from the trend that has been going on in recent years, when scissors are really opening up between the average income of workers and the average pension, we cannot leave it this way and there is a need to speed up the valorisation of old-age pensions. But let me present another amendment concerning this press. However, I am changing or proposing to amend the Budgetary Rules Act, because at present in the Budgetary Rules Act, there is a provision where a special account of the pension reform reserve is also part of state financial assets. This provision was established here in 2008, when some pension reform was foreseen, but it did not happen. I don't think this account makes any sense in the wording as it is today. I therefore propose to rephrase this account as not an account of the pension reform reserve, but an account of the pension insurance reserve. The detailed justification for this proposal is contained in the amendment, which is in the electronic system, and I will sign up to it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister. With priority rights... Sorry, I have four factual points here. So first, Mrs Jana Hnyková, after her Mrs Markéta Adamová Pekarová, President Stanjura and Mr Michal Kučera. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond through you, Mr President, to my colleague Mrs Pekarová Adamová. Yes, you're right. I didn't like it at first either that such a fundamental decision was addressed by the amendment. But on the pension board, we all really agreed on that. We now have a unique chance to fix the things that have happened here in the past. I don't want to blame your political party who used to work at the Department of Labour and Social Affairs. But we have a chance to make things right with the elderly. So I think we should support this amendment and not blame ourselves for who put it like that, because I think it's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u17	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová and her factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u18	Thank you for the floor. Through the President, Mr Sklenák, you have either disobeyed me or committed a clear argumentation foul. I said I had nothing against raising pensions, and I said it about three times for my performance. I also blamed your amendment, which I have at my disposal here, that we do not have the quantification mentioned there. And I think that in such matters, such fundamental changes that have a really big impact on the budget, we should have these things at our disposal, so that all colleagues who are not in the social committee, who do not have time to look for information from the Ministry of Finance, etc., should have this information directly in the press that you are presenting. If you were being fair about this, you'd be putting that information right into it. I think it's a perfectly legitimate request, and it's a request that... Let's not drag any of the stuff from last term. I mean, this is about what's happening today. And I rightly criticize, I dare say that we all have our right to do so, and I, too, am of the kind of fundamental changes you are making here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u19	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mrs Pekarová, for her speech and for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Before we continue with the factual remarks made by Mr Stanjura, Mr Kučera and Mrs Chalánková, I will make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Martin Plíšek apologizes from 17 to 19 o'clock and from 16.30 to the end of the day for working reasons by Mrs Margita Balaštíková. Now, then, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond with a factual reminder of Roman Sklenák's performance. It sounds so nice, the retirement committee. That was your party committee! And more widely, there may have been a consensus of left-wing politicians. I fully respect that. When Bezděkův's commission was, it was legitimately said that there was a consensus without the Communist Party. So don't tell me we all agreed there. It's not true. You only set up this committee to have an argument for the abolition of the second pillar. You didn't need that committee for that. But I would like to appreciate, on the other hand, the honesty of President Sklenák, who says: pension reform was not, is not and will not. Nothing else in the proposal - I know he's busy and he hasn't been able to study exactly what he's giving, but he doesn't say anything else. And that's wrong. I'm not gonna criticize how President Sklenák said anything. Of course, it has the right to submit amendments, but such a fundamental change in the key parameter - it is not that it is an amendment, but it is a completely undignified debate on the pension system, indeed undignified. I thought you learned from our mistake, that if I used the current majority and pushed for a more significant change, that the change had a relatively short life. They didn't. They didn't! Eight months, or seven and a half months before the elections, you want to change the valorisation formula in a fundamental way without ensuring wider political support for this proposal than the current majority. So you repeat our mistakes. Note that I am also self-critical, because for us this is a lesson until the next time we propose some pension reform, like this state needs it, we will try to gain wider political support than the future government majority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u21	Thank you and we will continue with factual remarks. Mr Michal Kučera, Mrs Chalánková and then Mr Sklenák will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u22	Thank you for the floor. I think that he has already said, or most of what I wanted to say, my previous speaker, more or less I would like to add a few words to Mr Sklenák's address through Mr President. Dear Member, you and your party have wasted a unique four years of economic growth to come up with a reform of the pension system. It is because of the inability of Secretary Marksová to submit a proposal that would have wider support. Thanks to you and the incompetence of the Minister, not only have they been wasted here for four years, but there is uncertainty for our employees, our employers and all the active people who today do not know how it will work when they retire. And it's just this is a thing that's absolutely fundamental. You turn to your right, that she did something or didn't do something. So we came up with a second pension pillar. Maybe he wasn't ideal, maybe he was worth fixing to change some parameters there. You guys canceled it without any compensation. And what did you come up with? Nothing! You've come up with a proposal from the MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u23	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. We therefore have also Mrs Chalánková's speech before us with a factual point, a colleague Sklenák will be prepared, then another application by Mr Stanjura and Mrs Radka Maxová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to briefly comment on the pension committee, which had great ambitions, which ended up only proposing the abolition of the second pension pillar, however, the debates were sometimes very interesting there and we certainly agreed that there is a need to find a broad consensus and also to discuss not only the amount of pensions, but also family policy, support for families with children, tax situation, etc. However, the management of the pension commission acknowledged itself that the pension commission did not bring at all and did not fulfil what was expected of it. As far as the last term is concerned, there have been two - so-called - pension reforms here. a small pension reform that went through the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and which showed the real reality of the amount of pensions, the retirement age for the next period. Here I would like to say that this is simply an example of it, let's look at the truth with our eyes open, let's really see what the situation will look like, and we can say, we don't want to. We will stop these pensions at a certain point, but we will find a simple three-member that pensions must either be reduced at that point, or, if we do not want to, we will either extend the retirement age or agree on what we will pay these pensions from another state budget income - whether from the money that we would spend to defend the state, to health care or to education. As regards so-called a large pension reform, which went through the Ministry of Finance and allowed part of the compulsory contributions to be saved into pensions, where over the 20 years and beyond the entire pension account would be settled, because the payments from the state would be lower and the rest would be paid out of these savings. So we need to look the truth in the eye and realize that we're talking about pensions in 2 to 30 years. And I am responsible for calling on both sides of this spectrum, so let's really try to agree on that. There is no other way!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u25	Madam, thank you. Mr Roman Sklenák is now also making a point of fact. A colleague of Stanjure will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u26	I just wanted to thank my colleague Stanjur for pointing out that such proposals are not good to put forward in this way, that there is a need to ensure broad support, because otherwise they have a short life. So it's a clear message to the voters: If this amendment of mine is approved, then when the ODS has the strength, it will return the valorisation to where it is today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u27	Thank you. Mr Stanjura will also be prepared by Mrs Radka Maxová. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u28	First of all, I'd like to ask that the screen record be in the parentheses: Madam Secretary and Labor and Social Affairs have applauded. The only one. But at least someone, right? I didn't say anything like that. Favorite political figure - I'm gonna hit my political competitor with a sentence he didn't say. I have repeatedly said and offered a debate on a change in the valuation formula that would at least reflect the economic cycle. And you're deaf, you don't hear it, you don't want to debate. It's possible. I'm sure that won't be the topic of the election. And if you think you're gonna win the election on that basis, I'm not taking that hope away from you, it's gonna show life. But I mean, you guys canceled the second pillar. Then together, many of us, we supported the attractive third pillar. But it's not working. We're still dropping the number of people in the third pillar. All the time. So the attraction wasn't enough. The alternative is not interesting enough for employers or employees. And I say I voted for her that it was good, but it wasn't enough. That's all. So you really wasted this term doing nothing. No, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, you were discussing the retirement age after 2030. That's right. It's such a safe subject. In the meantime, there will be four elections, so one can always say, well, the situation has changed, the resources aren't, we can't continue to fulfill our electoral promises because economic reality has caught up with us. But that's completely useless debate. About this single torn parameter. Just like we're pulling out one parameter of the pension system today, a valorization formula. What will we do when it - and as it comes - economic stagnation or recession? What are we going to do when the average salary goes down?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u29	Ambassador, please keep up the time. You have priority rights and abuse of factual commentary on speech with -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u30	But I said it about three milliseconds after it skipped zero zero zero. I'd like to go now, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u31	I know, but on that first point of fact, I was tolerant. Now, then, Mrs Radka Maxová, with a point of fact, two priority rights of the rapporteur and of the Minister. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a few things to say. To be honest, I consider the amendment tabled to valorisation of pensions to be a downside to social democracy. Because it's such an intervention in our finances that I think it would be polite to discuss it at least at the Coalition Council, even if there was no consensus. Of course, the fact that the pension committee, which has only proposed such cosmetic modifications so far, has suggested this again is another matter. Furthermore, I must say that we, as the YES movement, have agreed to put an end to the retirement age, but we would rather talk about 67 years - but on the condition that the MPSV quickly starts to address pensions for risk groups. I have to say, if I really pushed it, there was something going on. I've stopped pushing, and we've been at a dead end for about six months. And I hereby call on the Minister and the Deputy Minister, who is in charge of this, to take urgent steps before the third reading. Because it really was a ANO condition that something would start to happen. Now we're at a dead end because it's supposed to be the MPSV and the Ministry of Health to act. They're both departments of social democracy, and I'm asking where the problem is. I would also like to point out that, as social democracy suggests, we are basically adding more to those pensioners with higher pensions, while the low pensions remain, of course, lower, they will not be added in any way. That is why we suggested that we maintain the valorisation formula so as to maintain merit. Plus, of course, to be done on the basis of the economy or the same thing that happened last year. This means giving the government a one-time contribution. Which, of course, we consider to be a better option than what social democracy has now invented. That's all for me. I had to say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u33	Thank you, Mrs Radka Maxová, for keeping up with the point of fact. And before I give the rapporteur the floor with priority right, I note that Mr Ondřej Benešík's apologies have occurred from 17 o'clock to the end of the day. Now with priority rights, Mr Jaroslav Zavadil, and after that with priority rights, the Minister. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u34	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I didn't want to take tech. I thought it would be my turn to make a normal speech. But as you can see, it's not gonna happen, because there's so much tech that I can't even get to talk. So I'm gonna say a few things. First of all, Professor Potůček's commission. Each of you had the right, I mean the political parties, to deliver your representatives there. Each of you had the right to present yourself there in some way and look for a solution that might have been better than the Potůčkův Commission so far. Even if we all know because we were probably watching Václav Moravec's show on Sunday, when it was said that a reservoir was being prepared for the next government. Because I think we all understand that this government and this parliament will no longer be able to do anything fundamental in pensions. So that's the first point. That everyone had the opportunity to say that I am not opposed to adding to pensioners - I am sorry to Markétka to Mr President's mediation - that is nice. But on the other hand, we all know that scissors are spreading here between the income of normal employees and retired people. So even the experiment that has been made, which is therefore a parliamentary amendment, I see it as correct. When we talk about pension accounts, let's look at what the pension account looked like in 2009, 2010. It was minus 49 billion. Today is minus 13 billion. Of course, this ties to employment, or rather unemployment. The lower unemployment, the higher the pension bill. I'm not saying he's equal. Of course, we may have to look for other resources in the future to be able to finance any system. Any pension system! If I have to go back to the past - and some of you, but not too much, they can remember that. After all, there was an employer-employment fund or funds that were supposed to be used for this -- if this vision were adopted in 1994, we had it all figured out today! In 23 years. Unfortunately, it wasn't accepted at the time. I won't blame the government that was there at the time. But that's just how it was back then. So back in 1994, something that didn't have to cause a problem today to the OKD, the miners, because then they had to get the funds from the state. If this had been done, we wouldn't have had to. [[unintelligible]] And I've been through a lot of time, so... [[- No.]] No? Okay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u35	Mr rapporteur, you have priority rights. I mean, you waited for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u36	Well, I'm gonna use it. Of course, I see that the proposals that have been passed by the House so far, and this is what Zbyněk Stanjura mentioned here, which were more or less tied to the third pillar - because today we all know that pensions are financed only from the ongoing first pillar, because the third one has a short life span to make money out of it. We're all well aware of that. So I think that when we approved - even if it wasn't enough, even if there were seven amendments, which I know well, together with Vašek Votava, we served them. Eventually, it passed through the vast majority of this House. It was the first time the pension law had passed such a majority. It's always been most of one, two votes tops, and it hasn't had a long life. I'm going back to the second pillar that wasn't entitled to life. No matter what the right says, he has no right to live. The way he was administered, he couldn't survive. So I'm seeing the criticism that's here that we need to continue working with the pension system. Yes, I agree. It is necessary to bring into this, in terms of risk groups, employers, increase - and I think that is... The core of the poodle is that if our wages don't go up, there won't be any more insurance contributions. Can anybody put down 3,000 crowns from their average wage today? Which is a certain standard that should be. To pay extra for the good insurance? And I'm glad that in the debate - I think it was Rafaj who said that his company was paying quite a large amount to those employees who paid extra for their pension insurance. I wish there were more employers like that! And that should be our common pressure on employers' unions. And I remember five years ago when they didn't fight it. I'm not saying they cheered. They didn't. But here's what I think we need to start pushing the tripartite very quickly. And I welcome my colleagues here, I forgot about that, I'm sorry. [[at the gallery]] And I'm glad they can hear it. How many times have I told them, "Please go to the House, you'll fix your self-esteem." I assume they're fixing it. So these are the things we're supposed to talk about seriously. After all, each of us here may want to, and regardless of whether it's from the left or the right, at least this way I look at it, we want to pragmatically get to a system that will carry on a number of our younger colleagues and younger employees and younger citizens so that we don't get to where we shouldn't have to go with the pension system. So I'm not resisting any debate. And I tried it myself on the third pillar that it was possible that we agreed on a number of things. I agree that's not enough. But we need to talk pragmatically about what I've started this debate here, or somebody's already come up with it. This means a risky profession - just start talking to employers. I think the pressure on wages is absolutely correct. If anybody thinks it isn't, it's with the profits that we have here on average -- when I think of how much they do it, I think we're about 28 percent on average wages in Germany. Our wages are 28 percent of Germany's wages. So nothing can be done but push wages, minimum wages, at a time of growth. Like it or not. And that you don't like it - I understand. But that doesn't mean I'm gonna stop. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u37	Thank you. I will let the Minister rest for a while, because I have two factual points, Mrs Pekarová and Mr Votava. Then Madam Secretary with priority rights. I ask the House for peace. And I'm going to ask my colleague Fiedler not to disturb you. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u38	Thank you for the floor. I have two comments on the rapporteur through the President. You said we'd have to start looking for a way to deal with future pensions. So I'm gonna ask you when you're gonna start. Why haven't you started? Four years passed like water - nothing. You said that here on every occasion when any pension law was being discussed, whatever it was, whether it was the valorisation, whatever it was the cancellation of the second pension pillar, etc. All right. We agree that we need to deal with this. And we feel like we've just wasted it. You wasted those four years. So when do you start? And another comment is on the commission's work. The pension commission, which was established in the last parliamentary term, Bezděkova, worked for a few months. During that time, she agreed to solve the pension system, reform. The potůčkův committee has been operating for three years. During that time, she presented the abolition of the second pillar, the cosmetic changes of the third pillar, for example, that you can save your children as well. You're saying, "Who's gonna save $3,000 on each other?" Then who can save for themselves and their children? Then why do you make such changes when you don't really believe them? He's resisting himself. What else the committee came up with was valorization. That's all. Everything this committee has come up with, Potůčkův's commission. And it's been working for three years. So just to see the comparison and to pour some pure wine here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u39	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Václav Votava's factual remark and Mrs Chalánková's point of view. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u40	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, she's not exactly your colleague, Mrs. Maxová. I wanted to turn to her because she was talking about some kind of set-up. I could talk about double-crossing here, too, that's not gonna happen. But she's here criticizing the valorization scheme that's being proposed here. He was mentioned by a colleague, Sklenák, that it was economically stupid, that we just couldn't afford it. I have registered that the owner of the ANO movement at the assembly talked about wanting to increase pensions and at the same time reduce social security contributions. Then I don't understand him. Do you think he'll contribute to it himself? Because I don't know how he wants to do that when we talk about it all the time - and I think we should have a balanced or surplus budget. Well, maybe Mr. Babiš will do his part. The pension reform is bowing here, and I have not noticed that my colleague Sklenák here has spoken that we do not want pension reform - but a meaningful one that will have a broader consensus. What was here and was considered a pension reform, the second pillar, was not a reform. After all, most people rejected the retirement second pillar. He wasn't guaranteed by the state, no one was guaranteed to meet the money at the end, after 20, 30, maybe 40 years. That's right, he wasn't guaranteed. So please, if we're talking about pension reform, I think we talked about it x-times, it wasn't any pension reform and the second pillar.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mrs Chalánková also made a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u42	Thank you for the floor. I might be able to follow up on Mr. Pre-Speaker. Of course, it was pension reform, but it had its flaws. First of all, the biggest flaw was that it wasn't mandatory. She would have set up there in a completely different way, but you didn't want to agree with that. That's one thing. Otherwise, I'd like to follow up on what was said here. I agree that employees are to receive the best wage possible, the best salary possible. I'm happy for the staff, of course. But I would like to point out that if there is a determination of the minimum wage from the state's position, i.e. the government's regulation, that is something completely different from the employer's guarantee of raising wages. This does not have to be ordered in this way by government regulations at all. It is also a question of the competitiveness of the employer, his options, and there I really am in favour of making wages and salaries the best possible. But let us remember that, above all, our economy can finance all its actions only through the creation of high added value. And I want to tell you - let's say reality. Indeed, the creation of high added value is constantly decreasing, so it is not high enough. And by ordering the minimum wage and any other follow-up tariffs and pay grades, that will not solve the real pain at all, and that is creating added value and fair wages according to employers' ability to avoid destroying competitiveness.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u43	That was Mrs Chalánková's factual point. Now Mr Fiedler's point of fact, then Mrs Pekarová and Mr Kučera. So, please, let us keep our time to factual remarks and let those who have priority rights speak. [[Mr Zavadil warns the President that the Minister has spoken.]] But the Secretary of State claimed priority rights. [[Objection.]] Really? I'm sorry. [[Member Fiedler prefers the minister.]] If this is factual, Madam Secretary - I have noted with priority rights with you because we have argued that the rapporteur is also applying with priority rights. Madam Secretary, with priority rights or de facto? [[In fact.]] Okay. Well, after my colleague Fiedler, because in that case, I broke the order. But I didn't know that. I thought it was a priority right. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u44	I think I'll be fine with the running time, too. I would just react briefly to what was said here. It is not so often that I agree with my colleagues from TOP 09, namely colleague Pekarová. But really in relation to President Votav. We're at the end of the term. The reform we're talking about, the pension, and the need for it, we know that. Now I guess no concept will be processed by the end of the term. And I really agree with my colleague Pekarová's words that this time of three and a little years so far, basically four, because by the end of the term, nothing will be done, we have really wasted. No concept has been prepared. It is true that you criticize what the previous government has done in the past period, that it was a concept, that I did not agree with it, and I voted for the abolition of the second pension pillar, but I do not really see the clear concept of how pension reform and pension provision will be in the future from the current government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u45	I thank Mr Fiedler. Now, Mrs Pekarová, with another factual point. [[Attention from the reporter's desk that he should be given the floor of the secretary.]] Madam Secretary now and then Mrs Pekarová. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u46	I just wanted to say that, of course, I understand here criticism from the TOP 09 parliamentary ranks, because in less than eight years, this party has not generated an incompetent but capable Mr. Drábek, along with his today convicted Deputy Minister Šiška. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u47	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Pekarová, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u48	Thank you for the floor. Every time we have a leak in our shoes, we pull out Drábek. That's such a sure thing. [[Reactions from the O.R. - unintelligible.]] I would turn to Mr Votava through the President. You are another speaker of your party who says we need pension reform. Well, obviously, at least we agree on something. On the other hand, when we take a field trip to the past, I remember - I, of course, was still quite a child at that time - Mr. Špidla as Minister and Prime Minister. At that time, there was the idea of inspiring ourselves in Sweden. But has anyone ever put something like that forward? I didn't. In fact, the first person to bring in pension reform after 20 years of discussing and discussing this was us in our government. And you haven't come up with anything since. You're just criticizing and saying it wasn't even reform. So I'm asking where your reform is. And I've already asked you when you're gonna come up with this, so now I'm asking you where your particular idea and your reform is. I think it deserves all those who only live to live to be retired once, not just people who are elderly today, but those who are of working age and who work honestly, pay taxes, levies, and actually have great uncertainty. When I ask my peers, I'm 32 years old, they don't trust you that once they retire, the state will guarantee them a pension. And it's because we don't have any reform to ensure that. I'm calling for you to start working on it after x, so you don't say: we actually know it's necessary, we agree. That's not enough.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u49	Now Mr Kučera's factual point and then Mr Stanjura's priority right. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u50	So I think there is almost nothing more to say that my colleague Mrs Adamová has said almost everything. I would perhaps just react briefly to the Minister's words and its relatively short output. That's the only argument she's brought to the House in four years. That's very weak, very weak, very weak, Madam Secretary. You had four years to do retirement reform. You wasted those four years. The following government, after you, will say the same thing you say today: They have done nothing before me. And it will be your card, Madam Secretary. I'd like to ask you, Madam Secretary, if you're talking about the pension reform you didn't bring up, and you're criticizing the TOP 09 pension reform that came up with some reform, what's going on with the money lines in the OK system today. Are they still leaking? Because that's one of the basic parameters we've been trying to solve. You didn't even solve this basic parameter. Please, focus on your own work and don't turn to what your predecessors should have done or didn't do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u51	That was MP Michal Kučera. Mr Zbyněk Stanjura with priority rights now. Mr. Miroslav Opálka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u52	If I'd known the countryman was in front of me, I'd have held on. I didn't realize. Let us try to say and recapitulate what our colleagues have said to us, above all, from social democracy. They're essential things. For example, we had a very good Potůčkův commission, we discussed a lot of things here, and a great performance is a consensus that something has to be done about it. Congratulations. I think that many of us knew that before the commission came into being, that something had to be done about the system. The chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Votava, says, and I agree with him - a meaningful pension reform must be presented with broader political support. I'm signing. At the same time, I say that this government is not capable of doing so. Social democracy is not capable of that. Why did you not submit meaningful pension reform and try to gain wider political support? Because you don't know how to handle it. And this is a message to the voters, President Glass, through the Vice-President. You don't know how to handle it. Otherwise, you'd have come up with something. But having a committee to know that we're supposed to do something about it isn't that a little small? Seems pretty low to me. We knew that a long time ago. Then I would like to say, and you all know it, when we are discussing pension reform in public space, for incomprehensible reasons, there are footage of our current seniors. These are not covered by any reform of the pension system and cannot be covered. We should all demand that when we talk in public space about pension reform, there be footage of children's playgrounds, primary and secondary schools, or young families. These may involve the positive effect of much needed pension reform. And now you're trying to change one of the parameters at the last minute, in my opinion, wrong, because you're not thinking about the economic cycle at all. We haven't had a debate on how to improve the valorization formula at all. And I said it repeatedly here at this microphone when we were discussing, for example, an extraordinary increase in pensions, that it shows that the valorisation formula is not well-set, it is unable to respond to the changing economy and to the changing economic condition of the Czech Republic. Instead, instead of having a serious debate on variations, calculations, calculations and finding consensus, a legitimate one comes here - I do not question that - a second reading amendment. And it's supposed to change the system in such a fundamental way. The rapporteur said a sentence, which I also agree with, that I should not just be critical. I think it is our common interest to ensure a dignified pension for those who have spent their entire lives taking their pensions into the system and paying others' pensions. But let's try together to explain to the citizens that we have - as I would call it, in English I would say it's a fake, in Czech I would say it's an inaccurate description - pension insurance, which we or our employer pay. What do we have insured? How does this apply to the payer? Is he insured for anything? It's not. So let's at least say that this is a pension tax that pays those who are already retired. Nobody's paying for anything. Younger generations, economically active years, pay pensions to their ancestors. It's okay. But it's like the vague name or the misleading name of the pension insurance. I mean, when there's insurance, you're insured for something. That's what I said here, and everyone was nodding their heads three years ago, that well, no one's protesting against it, but nothing happened. I'm sure I agree with the Minister that you can't write pension reform in opposition benches. You can't unless you have teams of lawyers, economists, statistics, those who model mathematical models. You can't write it without it. We can draw attention to the problems, we can make a partial agreement, as with the third pillar to support it, because it was really reasonable, I confirm, and confirm that it was after a long time something that had broad political support. So when we rule here from November, we won't cancel, I can promise you that, we'll discuss it. But if it wasn't so sad, it's ridiculous when I hear from government politicians after three and a half years: we would, we want meaningful reform, let's look for a consensus, we have a commission that told us that this is a problem. Nothing. You didn't do anything about it because you didn't submit anything. I don't want to have old debates about the second pillar. It's gone. We will not repeat the debates of 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015. That's what you decided. I say, for us, this is a lesson for the future, that we must gain wider political support and have a more stable change, because none of us - whether the opponents of the second pillar or the supporters of the second pillar - are angry with me - is unable to say in a qualified manner whether it would bring a plus or a minus to the system. It was designed so that the effect was long-term, there was a long transition period, the existing seniors were not involved at all and did not concern. These are just political declarations on both sides of the debate, because in such a short period of time some economic effects could not be measured. What, however, shows how our citizens have confidence in the state-organized pension system - and the Minister will surely complete me and give me an exact number. We canceled the second pillar and about 80,000 citizens, and I was one of them to avoid being blamed, to decide whether to take the money or to return it to the system. If there was a great deal of confidence in the state's fair approach in the current system, the vast majority of those payers would logically choose to return the money to the system, improve their future pension by putting the money there. Madam Secretary, can you tell us how many people took advantage of that $80,000? I don't want a number, I just need a percentage. How many percent of the payers, the participants in the second pillar, do they not believe that when they retire, the existing pension system will be operational and that they will receive an adequate pension? I think it's a minimum, but I'm sure the numbers are either available to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs or to the Minister of Finance. [[16.40 hours]] And so that the debate isn't so one-sided to the government parties that I'm criticizing only the Social Democrats here, so KDU colleagues are avoiding the debate, as the party certainly is. And let's remember - I'm not sure if it was in 2014 or 2015, I don't know anymore, but let's take it on business that it was either June 2014 or June 2015, I'm sorry, I don't know exactly, I wasn't preparing so much for the debate when the finance minister came out here and he says: within eight weeks, I'm going to present a comprehensive principled, meaningful, best reform in the world of the pension system. We were smiling too much, and then the most loyal member of the ANO movement Martin Komárek came out and he said: I have not seen it yet, but it is certainly great. Well, it's been a year and a quarter, or two years and a quarter since then, and I'm really sorry, I'm capable of that in those stew records, so what? [[unintelligible]] Nothing either. So when I say she hasn't submitted anything to social democracy, I'm just saying that not even another government party, the YES movement, and neither the third government party, the KDU-ČSL, should we be fair. And it's true, when we were here debating the pensions for the miners, actually across the political spectrum, it sounded like, let's solve the other risk groups. And the consensus was that there are other risk groups and that they are groups of our citizens who would also deserve an early retirement. And so we all said it here, yes, that's right, we didn't make it this time, but we'll set it up next time. And the result, my dear colleagues - Mrs Maxová here said so - nothing again. Have you forgotten your words, Madam Secretary? Should I find the log when we were discussing mining pensions, how many promises were made here from government desks, and compare it to today's reality? Nothing again. Then don't be surprised that we find it quite funny when you're making new promises here again and you say: this would like to come up with a meaningful pension reform. Then bring her in. You've had teams working on you for four years at the ministries, you've got these people at your disposal, you've got professional devices at your disposal. Maybe we don't agree on it, maybe we're against it, maybe we're closer than we think in that view, how to finance it. I'm sure I agree that it is very good to debate with employers. And to be fair, it is not that only the big and most successful employers pay their employees a pension allowance to the third pillar. I know a number of small businessmen, small limited liability companies, small businessmen who pay their employees a contribution to the third pillar. And I think, again, we could get numbers from MPSV, how many of these subjects are, what is the average deposit that employers pay a month, like the size of a business, when I take small, small, medium and large entrepreneurs. I mean, that's the fundamental basis for this debate about how to involve... [[A note from the news desk.]] Well, the Treasury Minister, you can tell that to the government. I'm really upset about the departmentalism. I apologize if the information has finances, but the government is acting as a whole and acting as a whole. I don't think we care. At least the pension funds will know, someone should communicate with them. And the problem with the decline of third pillar participants is serious. I know the number's still relatively impressive, but it's dropping. Fourth year in a row, Mr. rapporteur? I feel like the fourth year in a row. We'll see how they react to the changes that have been in force since January 1st, and maybe they'll stop the decline. We'll see, but we'll know in a year. I say repeatedly, we are ready for this, our recipes will be in our program. It will be a strong programme, a good programme, and we are taught from the past to try to convince you, our political competitors, our opponents, or our colleagues to find a stable change in the pension system. And while we're talking about the drafts, the rapporteur was talking about it. The correct way to raise salaries is to reduce contributions. Reduction of levies. Let's cut down on the contributions, create room for employers to raise wages at the expense of the contributions. That's the right recipe. Let's not mess with that three-man, that if I raise the charges, which is also a popular tool especially for my left-wing colleagues, I have a three-man, and suddenly I'm going to pick 30 billion. more and I have the system in balance. It's just not that simple. Take a look at the OECD tables, see where we're at. If you call it extra labor costs, you know very well what I mean. I mean the social and health insurance that the employer pays for his employees. And every businessman who has one employee, that's true. And the number, the percentage is too high. And that is one of the factors why net wages do not grow, because clean wages are important for citizens. I'm not saying one thing, it's one factor. And here we have space, so let's look at the economically successful countries as there is a high social or the part that concerns pensions, pension insurance - or tax - we should call it a retirement tax - let's see how employers are involved in this system. And the complaint that the chairman of the budget committee said. There's no such thing as a 100% guarantee that you'll get something in 30 years. There are cases where state systems have failed, there are cases where private funds have failed, and it's just how strict we set the rules. You know those rules are pretty strict. We can tell how long it worked either before the transformation or after the transformation of pension funds in the third pillar. Was there a real problem? We've had a long experience. There's no real problem there, so let's not worry that there's a problem. It doesn't exist. The rules that are set are quite strict, strict regulator, no economic problem arose, unlike other financial institutions. We experienced the problems of some banks, we experienced the problems of some campels, perhaps some insurance companies. Fortunately, there hasn't been any problem with the pension fund yet, and thanks to the rules we have here, there's no problem at all. And Mrs Chalánková has already mentioned it, it is not true that we have done nothing, or only the second pillar. It was called a small pension reform, but it wasn't exactly a small impact and meaning. It's a little sad that the impulse had to be given to the Constitutional Court. Remember, there were various issues, not only the retirement age, but the solidarity, merit, was also dealt with. It is one of the things that is relatively extreme in our pension system, the low merit. And it's one of the things we really should be discussing. I think no one is questioning the principle of solidarity. Nobody. But we have to talk about the parameters. And if we go through the illusion in the years to come that the state will actually take care of everything, it won't end well. Of course, this includes, I would say, preventive action, convincing citizens to know that they should also save as much as possible, that we need to involve the family in this debate. You know, we've been proposing for a long time that, for example, 1% of pension insurance can be sent directly to their parents' pension. This strengthens family ties and strengthens family policy. In doing so, the money will remain in the system, and it is a reward for those who raise more children, that they have the opportunity to have this extra. And if these children have led to education, then, in turn, there is a presumption that they have higher incomes, so that even 1% will be higher, and it can promote family cohesion and many other instruments. The Minister was involved in today's debate by saying: there was a full-scale minister. That's a little short for retirement reform. It may be enough for a political cry and to throw a bucket of something dirty at a political competitor, but, as the chairman of the Committee on Budgets said - and the Minister could fulfill his wishes - that is certainly not a meaningful pension reform.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u53	Thank you. Now the rapporteur's point of fact, then Mr Laudát, Mr Grospič and Mr Hovorka's point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u54	Given what time it is... [[President: Mr rapporteur, you have two minutes.]] Thank you. Given what time it is, I can afford ten factual notes now, because it's not gonna come to that code anyway. Which was probably the point. But I only briefly to Zbyňka, through you, Mr Vice-President, about the costs, or about the contributions. There I agree with you that the social and health contributions are among the higher ones in Europe. But we can't just consider this. We have to take all the costs. And all personnel costs, which include wages. And if I stop at the wages, I have to say, we're at the other end, there's one of the lowest. So if maybe there's an agreement that we're gonna say goodbye to each other, we're gonna lower our employers' fees, and you're gonna put it on wages. But I'd have to make a deal like this with someone, because I know if I made a deal with someone, they'd keep it. And I'd like to use this. But so far, unfortunately, I have to say, as far as employers are concerned, and I have experience from a wide range of different businesses and so on, this is not possible yet in my opinion. I'm sorry. That would be the way. Reduce this, increase this. Then I understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u55	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Laudát's point of fact, then Mr Grospič, with Hovorka's point of fact, and then we continue with the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u56	Thank you for the floor. I would only dare to call on my colleague Stanjura not to be such a pessimist. I think there was nothing to expect from Professor Potůček but a fundamental message that there was something to be done about the penny. I watched his last performance, too. I wouldn't have seen it that black. It's the first swallow after almost four years, or three years, to come to this conclusion, something like mareček, hand me my pen, four minuses. So I wouldn't have seen it that black. What I see as very risky, however, is automatically valorizing them for the whole of inflation. Some time ago, our bank gods decided to hold an artificially fixed crown, and in truth, they printed so much money that I'm not sure what effects it would produce after the release. What's going to happen. There can be huge turbulence in the world economy. And it is not true that social democracy and the current Minister Babiš interprets during the pre-election rumours that the Czech Republic is responsible for the global crisis, and they show beautifully, or still refer to the period after 2008, what economic downturns have been. And it may happen to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will bankrupt your budget in a matter of weeks. Anything can happen. And so hard to fix it, up to this height, I consider it very, very risky. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u57	Mr Stanislav Grospič's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that in this flood of debate and comments I can also enter into this and say a few figures. At the end of last year, approximately 4.536 million people saved their pension for the state contribution in the so-called third pillar of the pension system. It was 107,000 less people than at the end of 2015. This follows from the official statistics of the Ministry of Finance. In transformed funds, where people could no longer enter, there were four million people. That was 282,000 fewer people than at the end of 2015. And in supplementary pension savings, which had replaced pension insurance since 2013, there were 537,000 other people, which is 176,000 more than last year. That also says something. The amount of state contributions paid to pension insurance and supplementary savings amounted to CZK 6 billion 828 million, i.e. 25 million more than last year. The state contributed from CZK 90 to CZK 230 per month according to the amount of money the saver sent for savings. So I would just like to say that the proposed amendment will not dramatically improve or make the pension system more transparent, but what is essential from my point of view will not increase the lowest-ranked pensions and, on the contrary, will add unevenly to all. Which is one of the views that is very serious and for reflection, and I think that we should also address this problem in the context of the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u59	I thank Mr Grospič for his time. Now, Mr Hovorka's factual remark and President Sklenák will be prepared, who, although he has already been applied for, has been cancelled. I can see he's worried after all. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u60	Yes, thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, Ladies and Gentlemen, colleague Stanjura mentioned that KDU-ČSL was not involved in this discussion. I would just like to remind you that we have tabled a proposal in Potůčkův's commission, and I think the proposal concerned the key part of the pension reform, and that is the problem that there are currently few active payers in the pension system. And we wanted to support families with children by having lower social security contributions based on the number of children. But these proposals, which, in my opinion and also the opinion of the pension system experts, were good, have unfortunately been rejected by coalition partners. This needs to be seen, and it needs to be looked at, and so it is said, how the truth is. So it's not true that KDU-ČSL didn't participate in the discussion. She came up with her own proposal and this proposal was rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u61	Thank you. Mr Roman Sklenák and then Vice-President Bartošek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u62	Thank you for the floor. Mr President said it bothered me. Yes, I am concerned about the course of this discussion. She seems undignified to me. It is evident that there is time to reach the 17th hour when the fixed point begins, and this point remains unnegotiated. And all because I suggested we add a few hundred crowns to our seniors. I think you know the life of our pensioners, you can't be serious about the warnings that it might be dangerous to valorize pensions for the whole of inflation. Think of all the inflation to valorize their pensions, it can be dangerous! Do you see trends in how many pensioners get below the poverty line? How many percent of pensioners are materially deprived? We ended last year with a surplus of some 62 billion. Added in the public sector, in private increased minimum wage. I propose a measure that will impact about CZK 2.2 billion next year. We're arguing here about whether it's dangerous for the state budget. I think that this is a matter of priorities, and the debate clearly shows who is on which side.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u63	Thank you, Mr Roman Sklenák. Now a comment from President Bartošek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u64	Thank you. Just a little while longer. I think that the entire pension reform, as I follow it, lacks one absolutely essential dimension, and that is the humility of all political parties and the willingness to make some kind of breakthrough. This is not a pension reform of ODS or TOP 09 or social democracy. We have a different approach to this, even possible solutions. The worst thing for this country and for the people who live in it is that something pays for a moment, something pays us three years, then cancels, then we come up with something else, the government changes, and it falls back as a whole. What's worst for people is the enormous degree of instability that they've been paying us for three years, and it won't be paying in a while. If we do not accept this by being willing to look for solutions to a long-term sustainable system, if we cannot answer the basic questions as to whether new taxpayers will be the source of the pension pillar and support the pro-family policy, or if we do not define these basic starting points, we will never find any solution. [[17,00 hours]] I hope and think that no major pension reform will see the light of day from the pension committee, because I am part of it, and I am sorry. But I hope that the future government will have the ambition to find this solution, but the solution lies in the responsibility of all other political parties, so that they will be willing to agree and discount. So that what's going to happen lasts longer than four years. [[The President draws attention to the expiration of the time limit]] . Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-012-014.u65	Thus, firstly, the time for a factual point has ended, secondly, we will no longer continue this point of negotiation, because, according to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, we will be dealing with another point at 17 o'clock. So at this point, I am interrupting item number 14, thank you, Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue the interrupted general debate when we agree on the continuation of this point. I have noted all the entries made with factual remarks and in the proper debate. According to the approved agenda, the item that is firmly included in our agenda is the item
