ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u1	206. Government bill amending certain laws in the field of taxation / House print 873/ - third reading I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš and rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Václav Votava, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 873/2, which was delivered on 1 December 2016. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House Press 873/3. I am now asking the appellant whether he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. Minister, are you interested in speaking before the debate is opened? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u2	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Mostly I want to wish you health, happiness and congratulations on the approval of the Lex Babiš law. We're on the 2017 starter tape in a great position. The economy is growing. This is reflected in the dynamics of wage growth for all income groups. We have low interest rates. We support investment by entrepreneurs and household consumption. We borrow for a minus, although some colleagues may not like it, but we borrowed for a minus one in January. [[unintelligible]] We have one of the best ratings. We have the least unemployment in the European Union. And in 2016, we closed a historically highest state budget surplus of 61.8 billion. And because of that, of course, we reduced the government debt by 60 billion year on year. I'm a little sorry about the debate that some people don't understand the difference between cash flow and funding and accounting, but that's not the point of my performance. We manage to collect taxes and taxes. We've picked 100.3 billion. extra. And at the same time, we're reducing them. This cost us about 30 billion, especially in the form of tax relief for families with children, pensioners and entrepreneurs. We reduced VAT on drugs, books, child food and food services - at EET for catering services from 21 to 15 percent. We build and repair highways and roads. By the way, there were the least tragic accidents in history on the Czech roads last year. And we're well on track for prosperity. Why am I talking about this? I'm talking about it to make us realize that we have a chance that we shouldn't waste. At this time, when world policy is going through turbulence, when political and economic instability and chaos occur in many countries and when Europe reaps bitter fruits of inappropriate response to these changes, our country deserves stability and prosperity more than ever at this time. And we are among the safest countries in the world. Each of us can contribute to it. Only if we work together for the citizens of this country can we keep the engine of our economy running. That is why I think that we should delete the differences and not approach the challenges that today gives us in the right or left view, in the view of a conservative or liberal approach. One of the challenges before us is systematically improving tax collection. I believe that each of you agrees that it is better to collect taxes well than to suffocate the economy and the standard of living of citizens at high tax rates. Yes, tax policy, tax quota and specific tax mix settings can be discussed. But whether we choose low or high taxes, they should always be carefully collected. In fact, if we consider that taxes are the life-giving water of public finances, then every citizen or entrepreneur must give part of his share to public budgets, in accordance with the very definition of the tax involuntarily. There is a difference, however, whether the entrepreneur contributes to the joint vessel from his share of the deci or liter. And why should he give more? Because someone else avoided a mandatory contribution. And what your reaction will be if we have to contribute more at once. You'll want to avoid it too. You may succeed, but at this point, your neighbor will have to contribute two liters and maybe eventually die of thirst. Yes, bad tax morale works like an avalanche that can wipe out many entrepreneurs who would otherwise prosper. That is why we want to support entrepreneurs. That is why we want to collect taxes better and efficiently. So that tax rates can be lower for citizens and entrepreneurs, which will further encourage tax morale and tax willingness to pay. By the way, a further tax reduction for families with children, whether parents are in business or employed, is also the content of this House press - that is, a tax package. In order to better collect taxes, we have introduced, among other things, electronic records of sales. It's been working since December 1st of last year. In the first month it was issued and registered approximately 80 miles. receipts from restaurants and hotels. We're waiting for a hundred-million-dollar receipt today. Despite some grim predictions, we were able to run the sales log in the announced deadline and the system has been running reliably ever since. The system's response is below one tenth of a second. Another and very substantial extension of the registration obligation is planned in about a month and a half, when all entrepreneurs who sell purchased goods will be involved in the registration. However, electronic records of sales are only one of the stones in the mosaic of measures against tax evasion. It's a major project. It is not the only project, but it is the current project. The sales register is also covered by an amendment tabled by me to discuss the House Press 873. It is an application of the exclusion of an entrepreneur into the turnover of CZK 250,000 with agreed flat-rate tax on registration obligations and technical regulation of the distinction between card transactions for payments at terminals and online payments. That means I'm talking about flat-rate tax. It's not an exception, automatic. I would like to describe here what a flat-rate tax means for individuals who are engaged in business. It's not so-called. flat-rate costs with which flat-rate taxes are often confused. This is simply an opportunity for an entrepreneur to negotiate income tax with the Financial Authority at his own request. Thus, the entrepreneur initiates a negotiation where both he and the tax office must agree on the amount of the tax, according to the anticipated income of the entrepreneur depending on his activity and in the light of his business history. It is therefore a certain administrative simplification, because the entrepreneur no longer has to file a tax return and the amount of tax is guaranteed in advance regardless of whether he ultimately earns a little bit more or a little less. [[12.30 hours]] This institute is now almost unknown and has been used by fewer than 50 entrepreneurs in the past, almost nobody. In my opinion, there were two reasons. First, the relatively restrictive setting of this institute, where the flat-rate tax could only be used by an entrepreneur without employees who had no income other than income from business, and then also the low efficiency of control and tax collection from business individuals, when it was easier to draw an appropriate number in the tax return than to argue with the tax office about the amount of the tax and then to pay it. However, we believe that this is a good instrument that can be useful to entrepreneurs. That is why we have decided to make it more attractive by amending the Income Tax Act, which is part of the press. We are removing these restrictions and we believe that the flat-rate income tax will be taken into account by a larger group of entrepreneurs and that it will become a useful simplification of the tax administration for them. With this attractive flat-rate tax, our proposal for EET relief for small businessmen, which has been called for from both coalition and opposition parties, goes hand in hand. This amendment was based on the debate on the attractive flat-rate tax, and I am sorry that it has become the subject of criticism from the point of view of colluding with the launch of the EET. But I don't want to discuss that. I think that each proposal should be assessed rather from a material point of view. Our proposal is that entrepreneurs with a turnover of up to 250 thousand per year would be exempt from the obligation to record sales if they applied for a flat-rate tax and this tax should be negotiated. It's not automatic, it's just a possibility.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u3	I apologize, Minister, for entering into your speech, but I will ask my colleagues and colleagues to keep it down so that they understand what you're saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u4	Why just $250,000 and not like $1 million? Because the negotiation of a flat-rate tax is and will be a process in which the tax administrator thoroughly examines the situation of a particular entrepreneur, the size of his business, financial indicators, etc. It's actually kind of about tax control ahead of time. It is not an entrepreneur's tax that is being valued, but a tax that is being negotiated. Therefore, a limit has been established which really aims at small entrepreneurs without employees, or those who have a business as a secondary income such as employment. For these entrepreneurs, the threshold of 250,000 will be better proven for tax administrators on the basis of an assessment of the situation of the entrepreneur. If I give an example of this, if a ten-year age limit is set for free entry on a children's day, it will be quite easy for cashier staff to determine by appearance or height, who to really let go. If I go in there, I probably won't get away with it, even if I shave. Yes, a couple of 11-year-olds and a couple of nine-year-olds may slip in, but you'll want to confirm your parents' age, but most of them will be clearly determined whether they do or not. Now imagine setting the maximum limit for entering a social event for 40 years. Here you will already be in the position of personnel at the entrance without checking your ID quite often lost, many people will be offended and the capacity of the staff you will need greatly strengthened. And I can still think if I shaved, but I don't think that's about anything. Yes, with every increase in the financial limit of turnover, and this has to be said openly, we come across both the capacity options of the Financial Administration and the sense of the introduction of sales records, i.e. the correct determination of the amount of cash sales and the tax on them. Yes, in the future it is certainly possible to discuss an increase of this limit to 500 thousand, but at present, when we are often alerted to the fact that many of their competitors are hiding revenues in order to avoid VAT registration, which is mandatory from one million crowns, something like this is not possible. Given the estimated number of more than half a million entrepreneurs - natural persons receiving cash payments, this is indeed not possible. I therefore ask you to consider giving small businesses this opportunity. Yes, it is only an option, and it is for everyone to consider whether they want to use it. If he wants it, it's not automatic, we don't really give anyone an exception to the sales log. This needs to be stressed. Anyone who wants to take advantage of this option will have to go through the above mentioned checks and discussions with the tax administrator. If it is found that it is indeed a small businessman, that it is a serious refreshment seller, that she is a pensioner making money selling embroidered aprons on the market, that she is an employee who occasionally repairs computers in the evening, if she has the time to do so, that she is actually someone who can quite in some way verify the amount of gross sales up to CZK 250,000 per year, yes, then she will not only have the opportunity to negotiate a tax and not to file a tax return, but also not to keep a record of sales. On the contrary, this option will not be achieved by the owner of an open restaurant, owner of a self-service, owner of a car service with employees. I repeat once again, as I said here a year ago - our aim is to establish an equal business environment and the principle of registration of sales cannot include exceptions according to the level of turnover. It may, however, contain simplification for small businessmen, for secondary businessmen, for those who earn a few thousand crowns a year by doing business. It is a simplification that is viable, which is applicable from the point of view of the government and which will not disturb the market environment. I'd like to ask you to consider this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u5	Thank you, Minister. I am opening a debate to which I am registering two applications. The first is Mr Shincl - but with priority rights is the President Stanjura. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I may start surprisingly, but I want to say that the outcome of the 2016 budget is good news. Good news for the coalition, good news for the opposition, good news for the Czech Republic and its citizens. Now I don't want to go into the comments and analyses that contributed to this. We have said a lot about this that we think that investments could have been higher, the impact of one-off revenues from the European Union, but it is good news. On the other hand, it turns out that the state has collected more from taxpayers in all taxes than it needs, than it is able to invest reasonably, by 62 billion. Crowns. We believe that this is a moment that tells us all that there is room for tax reductions. In my rather short speech, I will try to get support for our amendments. I will not argue against those we do not support. I think their authors also have the opportunity to defend and explain why they make proposals and try to get support. We have submitted a total of three proposals for the VAT Act, one proposal for income tax and two proposals for the Electronic Recording Act. Here I must say that we would not have done so if the Minister of Finance had not opened this law first, because the original government proposal did not mention the law on electronic records of sales at all. Let us first go to the draft amendments to the VAT Act. We have long come up with proposals to simplify the tax system and reduce taxes. Our first proposal, which is contained in the amendments H1 and H2, aims to return to two VAT rates, with the proposal H1 reducing the basic rate of VAT from 21 to 19 per cent, and the second proposal under H2 introduces only one reduced rate, namely 10 per cent VAT. In the past few days, I have noted the statement from the Minister of Finance, who said he would propose a tax reduction. Minister, it's already been proposed, we can vote it out together today. The debates that have arisen since you introduced the government mostly the third VAT rate are repeated regularly. Many of those who have the first reduced rate ask why when others have the lower second, the 10 percent, why we have 15 percent. And we, as the Chamber of Deputies, have also expanded the list of services that are falling, which have gone from 15 percent to 10 percent of VAT, the last time this morning, when we are a significant majority, I think 130 votes were in favour, reduced VAT from 15 percent to 10 percent for printed matter. When some colleagues or some journalists asked me why we supported this proposal, I said it was perfectly logical, today we will still be voting on all services, products that could be at a reduced rate, so why would we vote differently with one single person. [[The speaker was silent for a loud noise.]] I'll wait a minute. I think we should pay due attention to the debate on taxes. [[12.40 hours]] So I'll do it again. We propose a return to two VAT rates, a reduction in the basic rate by two percentage points to 19 per cent, that is the content of the amendment H1 and a reduction in the reduced VAT rate to 10 per cent. No exceptions. That means we wouldn't raise anybody's tax. Those who now have 10 per cent VAT would still have it, and those who have 15 per cent would have the same tax. These saved money could remain to the citizens. I remind you that the state has a surplus of 62 billion. Crowns. I must say that the debate to use this surplus is sometimes smiling, that it actually confirms the words of the Minister of Finance - many living in the notion that there are 62 billions in the bank somewhere. and that now they can somehow be separated, and they forget that these are accounting operations, cash flow and similar ordinary economic categories. However, if our H2 proposal does not pass at one reduced rate of 10 per cent, we have prepared an amendment which should partially compensate for the costs with the introduction of the EET, and we propose in a special - that will be voted on later - the H4 amendment, to make it right, so that I am not mistaken, H6 - thank you, Minister - H6 when we are only proposing to transfer one item from 15 per cent to 10 per cent, and these are the catering services. Of course, we prefer the H2 option to have it for everyone without exceptions. This seems to us to be a systemic measure where there will be a simplification and a reduction in VAT. Then we have one amendment that concerns income tax, when we propose to cancel so-called. a solidarity premium, or if you want a second personal income tax rate, it doesn't matter what we name it. I recall that the measure was introduced under our government as a transitional measure, which was to end on 31 December 2015. We are suggesting with some delay that we release it and return to one VAT rate. It is once again the support of those active who make money, whether they are in business or employees, it concerns both categories. It is not only a rate for entrepreneurs, but for many qualified employees who do hard work, and I think we should appreciate it by not taxing them more than the others. So these are four of the six amendments that actually concern, or which we are presenting on behalf of the Civil Democratic Party. The other two relate to electronic sales records. I don't think anyone will be surprised that we have proposed a complete repeal of this law. And since we've been discussing this quite extensively, I'm not going to repeat the reasons. You've heard those from us many times. However, we have also assessed the competitive proposals for the e-booking of sales law, one of which was submitted by the Minister of Finance, and he proposes, among other things, to remove e-shops from the EET. And this proposal has logic. I note that I am an opposition Member, so you can see that we do not automatically criticize all proposals just because it is brought by a government MP or the Minister of Finance. But what no longer makes sense is that other payment cards remain in the EET system. Long-term was the project - and the Minister was talking about it today, about entrepreneurs who have cash income, cash, cash, cash, and then you approved, I don't know whether consciously or unconsciously that cash payment is actually according to the e-booking bill of sales and payment by credit card. That seems illogical, unnecessary, unnecessary. So, in our amendment, we are proposing again systemic measures - to remove all payments with credit cards from electronic sales log. These are payments that are registered in the bank with both the payee and the payer. The state has enough information about this payment. And then the seventh amendment - and here I would like to thank the Treasury because it prepared it for my initiative. By discussing the law for longer than expected - the original government proposal was the right thing to do, that is, for the contribution organisations of the local administrative units, which are in the management of the assets, to be able to write off. By discussing this in January, they would have lost the entire financial year 2017. At my request, the Ministry of Finance has prepared an amendment, it is a transitional provision which, if we accept it, will actually allow the original intention of the Government's bill to be implemented so that these contribution organisations can apply tax-acceptable depreciations this year. To be clear, tax-acceptable depreciation. This proposal has been supported by the Committee on Budgets, and I believe that you will support it, because the first six proposals that I mentioned are political, express the political views of the Civil Democratic Party on simplifying the tax system, reducing taxes. The seventh one is rather technical, it allows tax write-off of the assets entrusted to them by the contribution organisations, and for some, for example. Regional hospital, it can do up to millions of crowns in economic result. So if you judge those amendments by the political optics who made it, the first six are definitely opposition, we are proud to report to them and ask all those who, like us, believe that there is room and time to reduce the tax to support it. The seventh is more technical and you could support it, I would say in principle automatically, because only the complaint came from the opposition Member, the text itself was written by the Ministry of Finance, which, of course, and not surprisingly, expressed its approval. And maybe for the amusement of colleagues and colleagues, don't make us look so serious. When I complained to the Committee on Budgets that the Ministry of Finance was automatically giving a negative opinion on opposition proposals, the Deputy Minister told me - but we gave H7 a positive one on that. I say yes, but that's the one you wrote yourself, so it's quite assumed that if you write it yourself, you give a positive opinion. I believe that you will not be doing so strictly politically and will support tax reductions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u7	Thank you. No one with prior rights shall speak, in which case I shall give the floor to Mr Šincl and prepare Mrs Zelienková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u8	Thank you, Mr President. honourable Members, before the final vote -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u9	I'm sorry, Mr Pilný is registered with a factual remark, so I'll give him the floor before you do. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As Chairman of the Economic Committee, I would like to comment on what President Stanjura has said here. I will not argue with the claim that the state has collected more taxes than it needed. It's a somewhat simplified statement, but it's probably not the content of my brief factual remark. What is true is that the economy is doing well and there is certainly room for tax reductions. It's certainly the right trend, a much better tendency than to invent sectoral taxes or try to differentiate income taxes. The space is here, but it needs to be considered, because what needs a business environment is stability and sustainability. This means that if we go to some tax reduction, and we offer it for VAT, because that is a good way to actually help all citizens of the Czech Republic, sustainability is so important that we come here in a year - another economic cycle, we have labour problems on the labour market and did not change rates again, because the state budget needs more money. The proposal is correct, it goes in the right direction and needs consideration. It certainly cannot be resolved in the course of one discussion on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. So the trend is correct, but the discussion must therefore be proportionate to the seriousness of the content and, above all, the stability of the business environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u11	Thank you, too. I will therefore now ask for Mr Šincl's speech. I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for interrupting your speech. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u12	It's okay. Madam honourable Members, before the final vote, I would like once again to emphasise a few things concerning my Amendment 5300, which I tabled at second reading, which I also tabled in the Committee on Budgets. Of course, I want to convince you not only to pay attention to him but also to support him in the vote. Let me briefly remind you why this is important. You will vote today on the amendment to the VAT Act, but in the case of my amendment, you will actually decide how to deal with insolvency proceedings, and thus paradoxically about OKD, which you mentioned here yesterday so many times. Today, with my amendment, you will be able to show whether you were serious about your words yesterday. The said company OKD can easily get into bankruptcy and is in real danger of finally disappearing from the world with jobs, or whether OKD and many other companies will be reorganized, maintaining production and maintaining employment. I will make the content of my amendment very simple. The current situation is that if creditors enforce an audition, they will receive back VAT from the State on their claim. If they enforce a reorganisation, they will not receive a crown from the State, but they can hope for a return on their claim of about 5%. That's the practice. [[12.50 hours]] Over the past few years, this text has buried a number of companies that were eager to be rescued during the reorganisation. Instead, their assets were sold out and employees were released. Probably at the end of March or early April of this year, creditors will vote again on the fate of the OKD. If we leave the VAT Act in the present state in Section 44, then there is a considerable likelihood that a significant proportion of creditors will compete precisely to recover the entire VAT from their claim. Unfortunately, the Ministry of Finance, as usual with my amendments, did not agree with this proposal. Before the second reading, it delivered its objections to the Committee on Budgets. I dealt with it by redoing it and reading it in a form that fully accepted these original objections from the Ministry. However, the position of the Ministry remains negative, although there are objections now, I would say rather ideological than factual. More important than the opinion of the theorists at the Ministry of Finance is that my amendment has the support of a true expert from practice, today's insolvency administrator Mr. Lee Louda, and has the support from the current management of OKD. I can quote here from their letter. They essentially agree that the adoption of the amendment will significantly increase the likelihood that the OKD will be able to implement a reorganisation. Engineer Louda writes in his letter, which I received today: "From the position of insolvency administrator of OKD I must state that the possible adoption of this amendment and its timely effectiveness in the case of OKD during March of this year would undoubtedly contribute to the greater willingness of creditors to approve the reorganisation plan and continue the reorganisation of OKD, a public limited company. In the current legal situation, bankruptcy is a more financially advantageous solution for a significant proportion of creditors, especially for creditors in business relationships, precisely for the reason they address your amendment. I believe that removing the current tax advantage of bankruptcy would contribute to a higher preference for reorganisation as a preferred way of dealing with bankruptcy, which would certainly have a positive economic impact." That's the opinion of experts in practice. Therefore, honourable colleagues, you will not only vote on value added tax, but, in the case of my amendment, above all, on the maintenance of many thousands of jobs in the region, which is far worse off with unemployment than usual in our country. And you will not only vote on miners, but also on their families, about traders, about businessmen, where many other people buy their livelihood directly or indirectly related to the shafts. If you support my proposal, you will essentially give them a better chance of maintaining their jobs and income. I would also like to point out that my proposal is optional. The first version is better in my opinion and means that creditors would be entitled to VAT refund regardless of whether it would be an audition or a reorganisation. If this option is impenetrable, I propose the second option of completely abolishing the possibility that creditors might request VAT back. This would put us in front of the so-called crisis legislative packages and into the state that prevailed until 2011. As I say, I personally prefer the option of the first, but the settlement of the starting line for the audition and the reorganisation will also bring the second option. Thank you for your attention and I ask you for the miners and residents of North Moravia and Silesia to support my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Zelienková will now appear, Mr Fiedler will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u14	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, I would like to ask you from this point of view to support my amendment concerning the EET. I know that this law is not primarily about EET and we wouldn't even have to talk about EET at all. But what happened was that the Ministry of Finance came to the Committee on Budgets with an amendment concerning flat-rate taxation, which is a very good step. We have all appreciated this on the Committee on Budgets and voted unanimously on this proposal. As Mr Babiš spoke here a moment ago and assessed this proposal as positive and presented us with all its advantages, I agree with that and all fellow Members from the Committee on Budgets also agree. But the truth isn't all there is. Mr. Babiš didn't tell us the whole story. The law, which determines flat-rate taxation for entrepreneurs, has been in the legislation since the 1990s. And the Minister rightly said that only about 50 entrepreneurs applied for flat-rate taxation. However, it was also intended to state that the Ministry of Finance had come to the Committee on Budgets that it wanted to ease the conditions for entrepreneurs so that far more entrepreneurs would enter into flat-rate taxation. This has also been done and added to this law, which, as I say, has been in force since the 1990s, new conditions with the possibility that businesses who employ, for example, a family member or do full-time work as employees and earn money as entrepreneurs can apply to flat-rate taxes. But he did not say that in this proposal the amount was not changed, or the limit of turnover of entrepreneurs who would apply for flat-rate taxation, and that in this law is CZK 5 million for three years. This amount has not been changed. As members of the ANO movement, we called ourselves when we ran for the House, that we would approach the administration of the state by using common sense. And I immediately wondered why these entrepreneurs, who apply to flat-rate tax and negotiate with the Financial Authority at the beginning of the year, how much money they pay to tax, should still record their sales. So I asked Deputy Secretary Schillerová of the Treasury's Budget Committee why they should record their sales. The Deputy Minister was surprised by this, and a few days later, Minister Babiš came up with the amendment of a new limit, and that is 250,000 turnover for these entrepreneurs each year. He just dropped this original $5 million at once to $250,000. I tabled an amendment which, from a fiscal point of view, is absolutely the best that has been tabled here. They are actually talking about the fact that entrepreneurs who apply to this flat-rate taxation and what the Ministry of Finance has proposed will be exempt from sales records, but on the other hand, they will be subject to a minimum tax, which is CZK 10,000 a year, which is much cheaper for such a small businessman than to get an EET. It's basically about 800 crowns a month. But we here are sure that these entrepreneurs who volunteer for this flat-rate tax will pay at least CZK 10,000. If only 200,000 entrepreneurs log in, we will immediately collect 2 billion crowns. Without any costs for both the Ministry and these entrepreneurs. Therefore, I would ask you to support this amendment of mine and, while I am unpleasant, I would ask the Minister of Finance if he could tell Deputy Secretary Schillerová that I would be very happy to answer the questions of Members. Because I asked her to help me set up my amendment to meet the Ministry of Finance's legislative requirements, but unfortunately I didn't get an answer from her. I really consider this contempt for the post of Member when I turn to the clerk so that he doesn't come to my attention. I don't think that's fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u15	Thank you, too. Mr Vilímec is now duly registered. Mr Karamazov will be ready. I don't see any more applications for the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u16	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I would like to attract - I will not talk about the amendments -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u17	I'm sorry. Before you start your speech, I will again ask the Chamber of Deputies to keep it down so that we understand what you are talking about. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u18	Thank you. I, my fellow Members, would return your attention to a matter which is not so much the subject of debate, to an amendment to the Local Charges Act, where I tabled an amendment which is registered under H8. I have found that the Guarantee Budget Committee has not adopted an opinion on it. I would like to add some comments to this amendment and to the Ministry of Finance's comments before the vote. The amendment to the Local Charges Act, which is presented here, is essentially based on the fact that the limit of one local fee should be increased quite enormously, namely the fee for allowing the entry of motor vehicles into selected localities of municipalities. The current amount of the fee is CZK 20 per day and the Ministry of Finance's proposal, or the limit, which is then decided by the generally binding decree of the municipality, is increased to 10 times. That means 20 to 200 crowns a day. Please note that if the municipality decides to publish this fee, I do not have any data or analysis that the city applies, perhaps some spa or larger cities, so those who do not have a permanent residence in the municipality or have no establishment there are obliged to pay. Otherwise, those who reside in the village do not have to do so. We can look at it from a different perspective. On the one hand, the Ministry of Finance claims yes, the limit increases to 10 times quite significantly, but it depends on the relevant municipality and the council, which amount it will eventually write. On the other hand, the Ministry of Finance claims that my proposal, which, say, is proportional and increases the limit only to five times, that is, from CZK 20 to 100, is low and does not discourage the entry of a motor vehicle into a selected location. So we have to wonder if this fee is actually supposed to prevent the entrance to the site, or what its significance is. I think because the local fee is, in principle, like any other tax, it is the tax burden on citizens, and I believe that we should not increase the possible tax burden on citizens so dramatically in this way. At that rate, if it were accepted, the municipalities or cities would accept the CZK 200, so I consider it a bullying issue, the CZK 200 per day to pay for the entrance, especially for persons, citizens who live in the municipality but do not have a permanent residence, I consider this very complicated. I think we should not allow such extreme increases in the limits of local charges. You know, I have been present several times in the last parliamentary term, and I have also been rapporteur for the amendment to the laws on local fees. I know what the debate here was, very sharp, about setting the amount of the waste disposal fee or unification fee, for example, the dog fee limit. How difficult it was to raise those limits. And now, suddenly, with some effort, I don't know, to do good, to influence whether or not someone gets into those reserved places, maybe influence the state of the environment, we set actually penalty limits on charges. I found that no one from the Union of Towns and Communities suggested such an extreme increase primarily that it simply came from the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, I would ask you, in this proposal, to perceive the sensitivity of the increase and to give no room for the possibility of an extreme increase in the fee and to support my proposal. I think a five-fold increase in the limit is a good thing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u19	Thank you. Mr Karamazov will now come to the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u20	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, like many of you, I have noted the report that Andrej Babiš is about to cut taxes. I believe that it is not just a marketing password, but that some of today's proposals in the tax package will be given the green light. If the state manages a surplus of around CZK 60 billion, all citizens should profit from it. [[There's a constant noise in the hall.]] The Civil Democratic Party has proposed several times in this parliamentary term, for example, the abolition of the real estate acquisition tax. Because of it, housing is becoming harder to reach especially young people, while its collection is less than 10 billion a year. A similar case is the road tax, which, moreover, is linked to huge paperwork, and only the cost of collecting it reaches astronomical amounts. However, these proposals have always been swept off the table. When we now propose to reduce the VAT rate, abolish the solidarity tax, reduce the excise duty on beer and restore discounts for wives and children, for all tradesmen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u21	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech as well. But I will ask you, colleagues, to be quiet, because I do not hear what Mr Karamazov says. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u22	- i.e. for all tradesmen, hopefully they will finally find these proposals to support. I don't want to discuss every single one of them in detail. Let me just say a few words about VAT. Instead of making the tax system as simple as possible, it's still complicated. We also belong to countries with the most complex tax system in the world. While most developed countries have two VAT rates, we have three, ten percent, 15 percent and 21 percent. That is why we propose to simplify everything to two rates and at the same time lower it to 19 percent. Easier and lower taxes can even increase economic growth and contribute to long-term prosperity. I also mention these measures because it is only a few months ago when I pointed out here in the House that in the Czech Republic not only large corporations do business, but a lot of small businessmen, such as seniors or students, with whom I often have the opportunity to talk about their problems. It is precisely the package of the aforementioned measures that will make life much easier for them. Students often start their business completely from scratch, so they double-turn every crown they're supposed to put into the project at the beginning. Young people who start a start-up often fail with the first attempt. That's normal, too. But they gain valuable experience from practice, learn from mistakes, and they usually do better for the second time. But why throw a stick at these braves? Furthermore, we should consider that both seniors and students often earn only a few thousand a month. Many others, too, merely make extra money from business to their main source of livelihood. I am sorry that Mr Andrej Babiš did not listen very much during the debate on this law. Otherwise, it would not surprise him how many types of business we have in the Czech Republic, as he marveled at the media when he justified other needs of exceptions. Because it is precisely to the fact that for many small businessmen the implementation of the registration system will be more demanding and costly than for large businesses, that I and my colleagues have repeatedly pointed out here. Now the Ministry of Finance has introduced exceptions for some entrepreneurs, unfortunately, at a time when many have already announced the closure of the establishment. First, the Minister of Finance created a problem that means the destruction of their work for many active people, and now he is acting as a hero and comes up with a miraculous solution to legislative exceptions that save small businessmen. However, exceptions do not address the situation, they only complicate the situation more and more. At the same time, there is only one way to prevent people from hanging a trade on a nail. The electronic record of sales is completely canceled. Now, if we acknowledge that this was a step in the wrong direction, the whole action will have considerable costs, but in the end it will be much less damaging than if the coalition decides to continue in an unimaginable project. I would therefore be proud of this House if it had the courage to face up to the problems facing it and canceled the electronic record of sales proposed by the amendment. I also believe that we will take the path of low and simple taxes. The surplus budget has shown how much space there is. Dear colleagues, let's leave the money in people's pockets, spend it much more efficiently than become your cumbersome apparatus. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u23	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Zavadil, now duly signed in. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u24	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President, allow me to ask you to support my amendment, which is under the letter P as a'member', so that we are not mistaken, and which is more or less linked to a matter which was discussed here a year ago and some weeks ago, where we discussed the third pillar and where I had amendments, I think about seven, and among them was one of those amendments, which, together with Mr Votava, we pushed and pushed and, in essence, meant that parents, grandparents... Hu!!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u25	Mr. Ambassador, I'm gonna set you up in the O.R., but don't yell at my coworkers and colleagues here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u26	I'm sorry, but it's terrible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u27	So once again, colleagues, I will ask you to be quiet so that you can hear what Mr Zavadil is saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u28	So I'm just gonna try to explain it. So where parents and grandparents could set up savings for their newborn children, virtually. insurance, and it also passed here as one of the proposals that I considered attractive for the third pillar. Unfortunately, when we were getting acquainted with this amendment, there was a matter that actually changed the tax matters again, as we set them up in the previous period, and I consider it unfair that at this stage, after a year, when it was put into operation, and when it is statistically proven that several thousand clients have also signed up to the system thanks to this amendment, so that we should leave it there as the Ministry of Finance proposes. I know that the guarantee committee approved my amendment, and I am asking you to support both from the right and from the left to preserve the current situation and not leave it in the state in which the Ministry of Finance proposed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u29	Thank you, too. Mr. Klaška, duly registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues and colleagues, I would like to draw attention once again to the amendment under the designation G1. It is a House document 5209, which I wanted to relieve or exempt from double taxation, in particular, the associations of municipalities with water infrastructure, which, if their operational organisation owns any profit that they tax, and before it is transferred to municipalities, must tax it as income. It is a pity, because all funds return these volumes back to taps and sewers and it would be a shame that they cannot continue to repair this infrastructure, which is for everyone. Therefore, please support this proposal of mine, which you have under the designation G1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-005-206.u31	Thank you, too. As I do not see anyone else reporting for the debate, I am ending the debate. I'll read an apology. Tomorrow from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies from 9.00 to 15.00, Mr Štětina apologizes. Since we have a fixed ballot point at 1:15 p.m., at this point, we will no longer continue loading the procedure, because it would exceed the time set for this point. That is why I am interrupting this point. For 13.15 hours, we've got solid polling points, we've got 13.14 hours. I wonder if anyone is objecting that we would continue with these voting points with a minute's notice? Nobody's objecting. So I'm going to ask the legislation to bring me the points to discuss, I'm going to suspend the negotiations by 1:15 p.m., and we're going to continue. Thank you. [[The hearing shall be suspended from 13.14 to 13.15 hours.]] It's 1:15 p.m., we've got solid polling points. I'll ask the President of the Election Commission to show us the individual points. I'm opening the first point of a fixed electoral block, and that's the point.
