ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u1	44. Government proposal to submit to Parliament of the Czech Republic a proposal for ratification of the Protocol on Sustainable Transport to the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathian Republic - second reading However, Minister Dan Ťok is not present. Madam Secretary, is he in charge? Yes. Madam Secretary has a mandate. The Minister for Regional Development will therefore represent the Minister of Transport. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of the Protocol is to strengthen and facilitate the cooperation of the Contracting Parties in the area of the development of sustainable freight and passenger transport and related infrastructure in the Carpathians, thereby contributing to the sustainable development of the regions. We consider it essential that for the Czech Republic and other parties to the protocol, which are also EU Member States, there should be no greater problem or burden on the requirements arising from the protocol, because the text of this protocol does not go beyond the existing EU legislation and strategic documents. On the contrary, it is sometimes much more ambitious. The principles on which this protocol is based must therefore be followed by the Czech Republic regardless of whether or not we will be signatories to it. However, we consider it important that both the signatories to the Carpathian Convention and this Protocol are states which are not members of the EU, such as Ukraine or Serbia, and we consider the fact that they will contribute to the sharing of the so-called "Supreme" as a fundamental added value. best experience in relation to sustainable transport and reducing the negative impact of transport on the environment. Of course, this is very important in today's interconnected Europe, where any one-state strategy has a significant impact on neighbouring countries. The agreement was discussed in the Foreign Committee, which recommends that the agreement be ratified. I would like to ask you to give your consent to ratify this protocol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u3	Thank you. Please, now... The resolution of the Foreign and Economic Committee has been delivered to you as House Press 731/1 and 2. I ask the rapporteur of the foreign committee, Mr Rom Kostřica, to justify the resolution of the committee, which has been delivered as House press 737/2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u4	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Let me introduce you to the Foreign Committee resolution of the 27th meeting of 12 July 2016 on the Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic will agree to ratify the Protocol on Sustainable Transport within the framework of the Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians. After the reasons of Deputy Minister of Transport Mgr Rudolecký Rudolecký, Mr Kostřice's intelligence report, and after the debate, the Foreign Committee first recommends: The Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Protocol on Sustainable Transport in the Framework Convention on the Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians. Secondly, he instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Finally, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of this government proposal at the Foreign Committee meeting. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Petr Kudela, take the floor. To justify the committee's resolution delivered to you as House Press 731/1. I thank the Vice Prime Minister for his cooperation. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u6	Mr President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. At its meeting on 22 June 2016, the Economic Committee addressed this House with a press of 731 and recommends that the Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies agrees to ratify the Framework Convention on Protection and Sustainable Development of the Carpathians. He instructs the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic and empowers the Committee rapporteur to discuss this report on the results and to present it to the Chamber of Deputies. Reason. If we do not ratify this agreement, the bread will not be cheaper or more expensive. But we're going to look like losers because this agreement has been in force for several years and is evolving gradually - and it is really about protection. And as the name also says, the protection of transport... sustainable transport in the Carpathians, which also includes part of Moravian-Silesian Beskydy and the entire eastern territory of the Czech Republic. So I highly recommend that this material be approved and given consent for ratification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u7	Thank you, honourable Member. Despite the expressive word "stupid." I am opening a general debate, in which Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, the President of the ODS MP, first signed up. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u8	Thank you for the floor. You must have noticed Mr Urban's speech earlier, which rightly said that we should check where we are and whether this is unnecessary. Well, that contract is useless. I don't want to use the expressive term troll. But consider for yourself how you would identify the one who will support it. To consider this, let me just remind you of some segments of this great protocol. For example, let's take a look - I'll leave out all the transitionors, as we are aware, observing, science, etc. Let's try to say Article 3 of the Definitions. And I don't think that without this agreement, we could really have guessed some of the definitions. For example, Article 3 (b) (a) the Conference of the Parties shall mean the Conference of the Parties to the Carpathian Convention. Without this article, I would have thought it was entirely from another contract. Or, for example, ecological connectivity means linking or linking ecological landscape elements/e.g. semi-natural and natural habitats or buffer zones of biological migration corridors/ to one another from the point of view of the individual, species, population or grouping of these ecological units, throughout their development cycle or parts thereof, at the specified time or for the time needed to improve the availability of their resources and natural environment. The Scriptures. (d): environmentally friendly transport for the purposes of this Protocol means transport which produces limited amounts of emissions and waste available to the planet. By the way, do you know anybody who knows traffic that produces unlimited amounts of emissions? I haven't found it yet. And then I'll quote what this protocol says about the different modes of transport. I already told you about it in the first reading. You've all been laughing, but I heard a reason today. Two committees recommend it. I don't think those who recommend it have read it. Or landscape diversity means - beware, dear Members, dear Members! - landscape diversity under this Protocol means diversity of landscapes. Really. It's Article 3 letter. h). Or Article 3 (a) of CRR. k): the observer - always in quotation marks, the first word or the connection - means the observer as defined in Article 14 (1). 5 The Carpathian Convention. I confess that I did not have the strength to compare this definition with Article 14 (1) of the Treaty. The provisions of this Convention shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 3 (b) (l): Contracting Parties shall mean the Contracting Parties to this Protocol. The Scriptures. (m) - the public concerned. The public concerned shall mean a public which is or may be affected by environmental decisions or which may be of interest to the public; for the purposes of this definition, non-governmental organisations promoting environmental protection and meeting the requirements under national law shall be considered to be interested in such decision-making. - This means, for example, non-governmental organisations supporting humans are not affected by the public as defined in this Protocol. Well, that's pretty logical, probably. [[12.50 hours]] Article 3 (b) (p) - sensitive area. A sensitive area means an area which is particularly vulnerable to its characteristics/effects of factors such as population density, topography and biotypes in the area/ and which may be threatened by insensitive intervention due to the performance of its ecological function. Pretty is the definition in Article 3 letter. (q): auxiliary authority means auxiliary body, established in accordance with Article 14 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 2 The Carpathian Convention, which may, however, include thematic working groups or committees. So we have auxiliary bodies that can have their thematic working groups or committees. First question to the Minister: how many members the Czech Republic has or plans to have, in the auxiliary bodies, how many thematic working groups or committees there will be and how strong the word of Czech experts will be. Now I'm going to repeat to you what this traffic protocol says. Article 9 Road transport. The Contracting Parties recognise the importance of freight and passenger road transport, in particular in terms of its importance in terms of the availability of remote areas and destinations, as well as in terms of the development of the Carpathian region. One sentence, and it has three "in terms." But I would like to remind you that the Contracting Parties recognise the importance of freight and passenger road transport. Article 10 Rail transport. The Contracting Parties recognise - quite surprisingly - the importance of freight and passenger rail transport, which is an important element of multimodal transport and a major alternative to road transport in the Carpathian region. Well, I don't know if this is contrary to Article 9, where we say that we recognise the importance of road transport and recognise the importance of rail transport as an alternative to road transport in Article 10. I did not understand whether the signatories prefer road transport, or rather rail transport. But at the same time, the Contracting Parties recognize not only the importance but also the importance - that is in the Scriptures. (b) - freight and passenger rail transport for the development of the Carpathian region, including tourism. Let's take a look at Article 11, which concerns water transport. The Contracting Parties recognise the potential of water transport in particular as an element of multimodal transport and (b) for the development of the Carpathian region, including tourism. Article 12 Air transport. The Contracting Parties recognise the potential of air transport for economic development, in particular for the development of tourism and the availability of remote areas. (b) - this surprises me, and I also consider this to be an innovative element of this agreement, it certainly has not occurred to us - the Contracting Parties recognise the importance of air transport for long-distance transport. [[A voice from the diaper: Excellent!]] I'm glad to hear that, because we haven't thought about that in the Czech Republic yet. At the same time, the Contracting Parties recognise the need to concentrate on existing airports and airport areas. I think the Minister - from her department - could confirm that all three articles that recognise the potential of water transport, air transport and rail transport - if I have not skipped one - for the development of tourism - are certainly true. I would say that each mode of transport represents a potential for the development of tourism. But the signatories are thinking about non-motor transport. That's Article 13. The Contracting Parties recognise the essential benefits of non-motor transport, including in terms of public health and the minimization of negative environmental effects. A - once again for the Minister - Article 13 (1) (a) (c) - Contracting Parties recognise the growing importance of non-motor transport, particularly for tourism and recreation. And I could go on like this. But because I would like to put us all to a vote on this from my point of view completely pointless and unnecessary contract, virtually. The protocol, I'll end my brief performance. I believe that you have all carefully studied this text, and I believe you will join our club's opinion. We will not support this unnecessary protocol. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u9	Thank you. Mr Karel Fiedler and his point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u10	I'm just really fast. Thank you, Zbyněk Stanjur, for introducing us here in detail to the nonsense we're discussing here. I think the Minister should not laugh, but rather be ashamed of what he is presenting here in the Chamber of Deputies. It's really not funny, Madam Secretary. I hope we reject this nonsense at third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u11	I ask the Members not to shout at each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u12	Why I applied for the floor is that Stanjura's colleague here has demonstrated beautifully what nonsense we are dealing with here, while a number of essential laws are mainly rejected or not allowed on the agenda of the meeting, and these - forgive me - we are dealing with bullshit here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u13	Mr President, I was very hoping that you did not expect to be introduced to this by Mr Stanjura, but you have already read the proposal, as it is your duty as a Member. Another duly signed up is Mr. Václav Zemek, followed by Mr. Kučera.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u14	Thank you for the floor. We've heard some contributions that put out these different, funny-sounding paragraphs. I would like to point out here - I do not want to downplay the treaty - that this contract concerns only our Carpathians, virtually. Whatever geographically belongs to the Carpathian. This means that it does not belong to the whole territory of the Czech Republic, but only to the Chřibs, the White Carpathians, the Moravian-Silesian Beskydy and the local areas. So that we don't get the wrong impression that this is happening in the entire territory of the Czech Republic. It's just this area that's marginally affecting us, these very Western Carpathians. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u15	With a factual remark, Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would very much like to ask my fellow Members to abstain from emotional expressions when they do not even know at what reading this agreement is approved, and they are not even familiar with it properly. They are responsible for their awkward performances themselves, but it also sheds a very bad light on our entire House. I would, of course, add to that the rapporteur's statement on the part of the people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u17	Mr Zbyněk Stanjura and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u18	For Mr Zemk - I am a patriot, proud Opavan, and Opava belongs to the Moravian-Silesian region. Your argument, you can agree with it, it concerns only a piece of the Moravian-Silesian region, I must decline. Don't play games with us, it's no argument, be cool you most, it's just a piece of the territory of the Moravian-Silesian Region. I'm the MP from there. Don't play games with us.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u19	Thank you. If no one else is reporting to the debate, I am ending the debate and I am asking for final words. Not interested. We shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions. It proposes to vote in accordance with the House's press, 731/2, which is the resolution of the Foreign Committee, which is correctly formulated. There's a check-out request. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your ID cards. We will vote on the draft resolution of the Foreign Committee in press 731/2. Initiating voice... sorry. [[Call off the microphone.]] I'm bohužel so. And we're already in a position to settle. So we will vote on the Foreign Committee's motion for a resolution in press 731/2. I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote number 83, 75 Members are registered, for 42, against 11. The motion was accepted. I am of the opinion that the draft resolution of the Foreign Committee has been approved and that this item has been concluded. I'm interrupting the House meeting until 2:30 p.m. when we proceed with the Oral Interpelration. Enjoy your lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-014-044.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, next item on our agenda is:
