ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u1	92. Oral inhalation Before we begin, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek apologizes from 14:30 pm to the end of the meeting day Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický apologizes also Mrs Radka Maxová from 14:30 pm to the end of the meeting day. Interpelations were drawn and with the participation of the verifiers, the order in which they will perform and submit oral interpelations was determined, first of all, to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the Government, as well as to the Government's intercessors, that the interpelations on the members of the Government will begin immediately after the application for an interview on the absent Prime Minister has been exhausted. We've known that since this morning that the Prime Minister isn't here today. I give the floor to Mr Jiří Valent, who was first drawn to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Bohuslav Sobotka, and a Member of Tomio Okamura will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Mr. Long-Termly Interpelling the Government's no longer present Prime Minister, your government has, among other things, been anchored in the coalition statement to speed up the implementation of the high-speed Internet and, at the same time, the ban on the state to trade with firms with unclear owners. Neither could be filled. I can illustrate my claim, for example, by drawing on the European Union's subsidy to build high-speed Internet networks. Few people now count on the fact that our state of promised CZK 14 billion on high-speed internet is completely exhausted, thanks to the state administration criticized from many sides, limping on both legs for more than three years. What is lacking in proper pumping after all these years even today? According to the experts, the conditions for subsidies are unclear, the intervention areas are poor and the applicants also do not have legal certainty that they will receive the subsidy. Some small and medium-sized applicants criticise the extremely short time to submit an application, i.e. a limit that only records to those big and forward better informed players on the ICT market, and they are already complaining about the European Union, which can stop the drawdown. I may be wrong, but it is said that even for these reasons, no candidate for the grant has yet even applied. But when it really froze me, it was at a time when I read in the official subsidy guide that the applicant must have owners outside the tax havens with at least 75% share of the ownership structure. But that is in direct conflict with the government's statement. Why not 100 percent? Who's he supposed to record this to again and put it in his pockets? How symbolic of this government: a contradiction of words and actions. The sum of the sum, with the construction of high-speed internet networks, has practically not moved in our country in four years, although the Internet will be as important for the fourth industrial revolution as the roads and railways were the first for the revolution. What do you say, Prime Minister Sobotka?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u3	Ambassador, it's time for your interpellation. The Prime Minister is excused, answering in writing in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. We will now proceed to interpelation number 2 and this is the interpellation of Mr Tomio Okamura, Mrs Helena Langšádlová will prepare herself. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u4	Dear Prime Minister, the media described your unexpected move last week when, at the end of your mandate, you and your government wanted to ask that the Czech Finance Minister be present at the meeting of his colleagues from Euro-paying countries in order to obtain observer status. The aim is supposed to be a step that will ensure the Czech Republic stays among the countries that are going to include higher integration speed within the European Union. And I ask you, Prime Minister, do you know that most citizens in this country are asking the opposite? They don't want the euro at all. Neither greater integration, or at best wait with the euro and relax relations with the European Union, or even leave the European Union. For our SPD movement, I am clearly saying that we reject the adoption of the euro for the Czech Republic and request a referendum on the withdrawal of the Czech Republic from the European Union so that our citizens decide their future. What is your mandate, Prime Minister, to make decisions that you have never made before the elections and which, moreover, go against the wishes of not only a large part of the ČSSD electorate, but, of course, against the will of most citizens of this country? By the way, isn't your contempt for citizens' opinion a reason why, despite the government's written signed declaration, your government boycotts the entire adoption of the referendum law? And can you also explain why government MEPs, ČSSD, YES and KDU-ČSL voted on 18 May this year for mandatory quotas for the Czech Republic to receive so-called refugees from Syria? However, to avoid being alone in this, I add that Members for TOP 09 and STAN, the Mayors and the Independents, also voted in favour of the quotas. And I stress that our SPD movement has advocated a strict ban on any reception of migrants in the context of the current migration wave and the ban on Islam in the Czech Republic since the beginning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u5	I also thank you for keeping the time to interpel, and I repeat that it will be answered in writing within the framework of the Rules of Procedure when the Prime Minister is duly excused. Now, Mrs Helena Langšádlová. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I again address you to the question of drawing European funds. The government continues to fail in this area. The overall drawing does not correspond to the fact that we are already in the fourth year of the programming period, and applicants continue to struggle with an ever-increasing administrative burden. Today, however, I would like to draw attention to the critical situation in drawing on the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation under the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Not only is the drawdown at about 5 percent, it is approximately 5 billion crowns, but of this amount 2,2 percent billion is drawn by a transfer to the Czech Moravian Guarantee and Development Bank, where these funds are largely located because the conditions for their acquisition are poorly set, and therefore interest does not correspond to expectations. Please inform us whether the Ministry of Industry and Trade wants to draw additional resources in this de facto fictitious way from the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation. That would be a great risk to our competitiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u7	Thank you for keeping the time to interpel, and I repeat that, as with the others, the answer will be written in thirty days. Now, Mrs Jitka Chalánková. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u8	Dear Prime Minister, the goal of Prostějov Olympics is to implement the project of the National Olympic Centre in Prostějov. In January 2016, the association submitted an application for a subsidy of CZK 110 million from the programme announced for this project by the Ministry of Education, of which 30 million per year. However, the request was not discussed by the council of the Olomouc Region or the town of Prostějův members of the association. In August 2016, the association concluded a contract for work with the selected supplier and in September 2016 the construction started. 31. 10. 2016 By letter from Minister Kateřina Valachová, Deputy Minister Simona Kratochvílová, MŠMT informed the association that the application was recommended for implementation in the required amount for 2016. Simona Kratochvílová said that MŠMT wants to transfer the project to another subsidy programme, which includes, for example, the Strahov National Centre. The construction has been running for a year and is still without financial cover. I wonder, Prime Minister, if and when you will order an investigation into the matter, especially the authenticity of the letter by Secretary Valachová of 31. 10. 2016 signed by Deputy Minister Simona Kratochvílová and subsequent negotiations on the modification of the subsidy programme for the construction already under construction. I ask for an explanation of how such a project complies with the generally applicable rules for granting subsidies from the state budget and whether it is even possible to provide any subsidy for such an unprepared project. I supplement that on 29. 5. 2017 MŠMT informed Prostějovský representative Aleš Matyášek that the applicant did not complete the documentation according to the requirements of MŠMT of June 2016 and MŠMT therefore terminated the procedure without granting the subsidy, which is in complete conflict with Deputy Minister Kratochvílová's communication of 31. 10. 2016. [[Attention on time.]] The construction has been running for a year and so far it is without financial cover.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u9	Thank you. Time's run out. We continue as before, which means the answer will be in writing within 30 days. And now it is Mr. Jaroslav Borka's turn. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u10	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, I contacted you on 19 January 2017 with an interview about lithium mining in localities of the Czech Republic. While we have learned from your answer how important lithium is, what we have not learned is how the state will proceed to make use of this raw material for the benefit of our country. Members of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia therefore organized a seminar in June this year called the use of lithium potential and its issues. Unfortunately, despite a number of qualified performances, after this seminar, the question of the use of lithium remained unanswered. For this reason, Prime Minister, I am asking you to communicate why the state or state company DIAMO does not burden and process lithium itself. I'm aware that the DIAMO is to process an analysis of its capabilities. Is this material already processed? And with what conclusions? How, Prime Minister, does the state intend to ensure that lithium extracted by private companies is also processed in the Czech Republic? How does the State intend to ensure the use of added value lithium from already sold land in the Czech Republic? I understand that the state's financial participation is currently risky, but I fear that when the feasibility study is completed, it will be too late for the state to enter the whole process. The Memorandum of Understanding between potential miners and the state prepared by the Minister of Industry and Trade is not a legal document. Moreover, the state does not need to enter the process of property at this time, but it should ensure an unassailable legal framework for all involved to be clear boundaries. Mining, but processing. And I note that it is not just lithium, but at least tungsten and tin. Won't this gigantic state property of at least 3,000 billion crowns be stolen from the people of this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u11	Thank you for keeping time with Mr Jaroslav Borka. That was the last one to be interviewed by the Prime Minister. The answer will also be processed by the Prime Minister within 30 days and will be sent to you. My colleague Chalánková informed me that she would not lecture on the second interpellation to fund sport. Thank you. And so we can continue, as I announced at the beginning of the oral interview negotiations, by oral interpelations to members of the Czech Government. According to the winning order, we continue by interpelling Mr Václav Snopek to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, so we begin the interpelation on the members of the government. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u12	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in the past few days, several concerned citizens have turned to me about the property of the Sudeten Němec. In what way is the nature of this concern? I draw from the public media. Quote: Sudeten Němec can still claim property in the Czech Republic. Some of them complained in court and succeeded. The property claims of the Sudeten Němec in the Czech Republic last. The Land Court in Munich annulled the amendment of the statutes of the compatriotic association, which the grouping of rights to return the property wanted to give up. The court ruled so at the end of June. However, the decision did not take legal power, and after a month it was necessary to give an opinion. When I looked at the pages, I found that part of such militantly dressed Sudeten Němec still nourishes this idea. I ask you, Minister: Does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs verify these matters and take adequate measures? Next question: Are property claims in international treaties really enshrined in the legal order of the Federal Republic of Germany and the Czech Republic? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u13	I thank Mr Václav Snopek for his interpelation. Minister Zaorálek, as I read before, apologized from 14.30 pm, so according to the Rules of Procedure Act, he will reply in writing within 30 days. We continue to interpel Mrs Chalánková to Minister Stanislav Štech, but her colleague has left, so her application is failing, and we will continue to interpel Mr Chalupa to Secretary of the Interior Milan Chovanec on the subject of wiretapping. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the House's esteemed torso, dear absent, Minister. Maybe I didn't hear if the Minister was excused, so I'm gonna put it in an empty chair. Dear Minister. I would like to address you with my interpellation regarding illegal wiretaps and leaks of information. Specifically, in my opinion, I am talking about illegal wiretaps by the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Finance, at the same time a member of the Security Council of the State and today a member of the lower chamber of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the so-called Šuman Group. I am particularly interested in what the Police of the Czech Republic has done since 8 May 2017, when the first wiretap appeared in the media, whether the Police of the Czech Republic identified persons or persons hiding under the code name Šuman, who committed and permanently committed illegal activities bordering on fundamental aspects of the security of the Czech Republic. I am interested in whether acts involving law enforcement authorities have been initiated against these persons and what concrete measures have been taken to prevent the spread of these illegal wiretaps. Thank you very much for your answers in the shortest possible time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u15	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. I think the Minister of Steno Record will certainly get your questions through the service and answer you within 30 days. We continue to interpel Mrs Helena Langšádlová to the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. I welcome him here among us, and we can function in a normal way. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u16	Thank you. Dear Minister, I would like to contact you on the terms of transport on suburban trains around Prague. In the morning and afternoon peaks, these trains are extremely crowded and passengers have long complained about the fact that first class sections are included in these sets, which are absolutely unused. With the requirement to address this situation I have already turned to your predecessor, but there has not been a correction or any change that would contribute to improving the conditions for passengers in this area. I know there's been a lot of improvements in the train service. I would like to say that I very much appreciate the conductor's respectful behaviour and their warm attitude. However, I would like to see improved transport conditions in this area as well. Minister, I ask you to answer me, how will you deal with the situation described and in what time frame?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u17	Thank you. And I'm sure the Minister of Transport is ready for an answer. Minister, you have five minutes, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u18	Mr Vice-President, honourable Member, honourable Members and Mrs Langšádlová, through Mr President. This regional transport, which is what my office has prepared for me, is ordered by the region, that is, in your case it is the Central Bohemia Region and the Region of Prague, and therefore it is a matter between the regional authorities and the Czech Railways. However, it does not satisfy me, and I would like to promise you from this place that at the nearest meeting with the Czech Railways, which I think will be on Tuesday next week when we discuss another matter, so I will strongly recommend that they deal with this matter, because I agree with you and I think that at least people are riding on regional lines. And I can imagine myself on that train when I'm standing in two and number one would be empty. [[14.50 hours]] So I'm going to want to look into this and even ask if in the investment policy of České dráhy there is even an idea for regional trains to order one. That's... I don't want to do that... by saying an inappropriate word. [[with laughter]] So I think it's a stupid thing that needs to be resolved quickly. And I'm gonna try to work on the Czech Railways to figure it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u19	Thank you. The right to an additional question, Madame, will be used. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u20	I would like to thank you, Minister, for your approach. Of course, I will also turn to my colleagues on the edge, but I think it would be good for us to improve the situation together. To motivate as many people as possible to use our trains, because I think otherwise that the comfort is large, frequency is common. This is a completely useless thing that upsets these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u21	Thank you. And since there is a little bit of time and the Minister will not be able to complete the answer, I will read the apology received by the President of the House. Mrs Lorencová and Mr Ivan Gabal. We can therefore continue to interpel Mr Antonín Sed to the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka in the sense of senseless rents. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u22	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent minister, I am addressing you with a problem that the Moravian Fisheries Union has, and probably not just him. The Moravian fishing union brings together more than 72,000. the members and ensures the fishing law which is national property. The Moravian Fisheries Association is struggling with the fact that it is currently charged by the flow managers - the state enterprise Forests of the Czech Republic and the state enterprise Povodí Moravy - with nonsensical rents for free water, which have never been paid in the past by the fisheries unions as nonprofit and nonprofit organizations. And I want to add that the Moravian Fisheries Union is providing us with about 60 miles of handle fish in our fields. CZK and in the form of brigades of its members improves the state of the grounds in about 30 million. Minister, I ask why fishermen are charged these senseless rents, when the free use of fishing grounds is provided by the Fisheries Act and this use is subject to the obligations of the Moravian Fisheries Union to fish fishing grounds and to care for them. I therefore ask because fishermen are not dependent on state subsidies, but they manage their members' resources. Minister, how do you intend to address this problem, which has disrupted the correct partnership between flow managers and ground users? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u23	Thank you, Mr Antonín Seďa. The Minister is excused. So within 30 days, he will provide an answer. This will be of interest not only to colleague Seďa, but to many others. Now, let's move on to the sixth interpellation. And here is the interview of Ludvík Hovorka on the present Minister Jiří Havlíček in the matter of VVN management Slušovice - Slavičín. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u24	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Mr Minister. I would like to request information about the planned construction of a very high voltage line - 2 x 110 kV from Slušovice to Slavicín. It is intended to be the management of E.ON and the reason is to strengthen the network in Slavicína and Luhačovic. The management is to be routed through the important pilgrimage site of Maleniska in the village of Provodov. The management is to be tracked in close proximity to the church, the crossroads and the chapel. There is also a very valuable source of quality drinking water, for which many people from the surrounding area are commuting. The leadership itself and the relevant protection zone would bring significant forest deforestation with centuries old deciduous growth, disruption of the piety of the sacred place and destruction of the beautiful landscape in the immediate vicinity of the pilgrimage site. Local citizens have been trying for 20 years to reroute the line and question the need for electricity in Slavicín and its surroundings, especially after the interruption of production in the largest regional industrial enterprise Vlářská strojírny Slavicín. In addition to the possible reinforcement from Slušovice it is possible to connect Slavičín from the village of Střelná - this is the source of ČEZ - or from Otrokovice, where it is the management of E.ON. These routes would avoid the pilgrimage site. Another option is to strengthen the network from the source, which will in future power the railway line Staré Město - Bylnice, with a turn to Luhačovice. Dear Minister, can you please check why E.ON insists on the Slušovice - Slavičín route and refuses to connect from the village of Střelná or from Otrokovice? Are there other possibilities of connecting Slavičín to the pilgrimage instead of Maleniska in the village of Provodov protected from extensive interference in the landscape and from permanent damage to the pilgrimage site? Shouldn't the VVN 110 kV leadership be systemically owned and coordinated by the state, i.e. ČEPS? Thank you for any answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now the Minister has five minutes. We can also ask any questions in the supplementary question. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Member, honourable Members, let me begin by saying, in general, about the electricity distribution system, which is one of the fundamental pillars of the infrastructure of the Czech Republic, which ensures a reliable, secure continuous supply of both the economic sector and households of electricity. First of all, I would like to inform you that the original plan for the construction of the double line has changed to the design of a simple line - 110 kV. The main reasons for the construction of the management of VVN Slušovice - Slavičín can be summarised as follows: The first reason is to ensure the obligations of the electricity distributor arising from our legislation, namely the Energy Act, and the interests of citizens in the territory. At present, there is a great danger that in the event of a failure of the 110 kV supply line which power the Slavicín substation, there will most likely be an interruption of the supply of electricity in the winter period, which will require an emergency for the Slavicín and Slušovice region. This would mean long-term, hours, up to maybe tens of hours, restrictions on electricity supply in order for thousands of customers. The real risk for power supply to the eastern part of the Zlín Region is the Slavicín substation. Its lifespan has been exhausted. This also relates to the security of the bilateral power supply of the existing Slavičín transformer, including the future 110/22 kV Pozlovice transformer, which will cover another expected increase in load in the Slavičín and Luhačovic cities. As you mentioned, the investor of the construction of the management is E.ON Distribuce, a. s., which has long worked with the authorities of the state administration of the Zlín Region. Documents that clearly and indisputably confirm the need to ensure the development of the distribution system, which will subsequently enable increased electricity supply for the Zlín Region in the required quality and amount are the following: territorial energy concepts, employment promotion concepts, air improvement programme, brownfields strategy, regional development foundations, municipal planning. These binding documents clearly confirm the need to increase the supply of electricity over the medium and long term, while ensuring technical preconditions for the possibility of increasing the distributed amount and capacity of electricity for this region, thereby enabling the objectives set by the Zlín Region to be met. The E.ON Distribution System Operator plans to build an outdoor line connecting the substation R 110/22 kV Slavičín - Slušovice and subsequent construction of the substation R 110/22 kV in the area of Pozlovice, based on calculations, analyses and evaluations of potential real operational risks and respecting the priorities of the Zlín Region. I stress once again that the priority reason for implementing this action is to ensure a reliable supply of electricity in the area. In particular, the municipalities Slavičín, Luhačovice and Petrůvka are experiencing shortcomings. With regard to the existing network configuration in the power transformation of Otrokovice, the Slavicína area is one of the few in which it is not possible to apply the so-called reliable criterion at present. N-1. This means that in the event of a failure of any distribution system element, the supply of electricity to the end customer should not be interrupted, which cannot currently be guaranteed. [[15.00 hours]] As regards the draft management route for the processing of the territorial plan of the large territorial unit for the location of the management 2 x 110 kV Slavičín - Slušovice, it was started in 1990 and then incorporated into the territorial plan of the higher territorial unit of the Zlín agglomeration, which was subsequently approved by the government in March 1994. The original plan was abandoned after consideration of all the impacts and taking into account the minimization of interference in the field relief and the requirements for limiting the forest function and is only considered with the construction of a simple line 1 x 110 kV. At the joint meeting with representatives of the mayors of the municipalities concerned, the intention was clearly declared to use the masts, whose height will be at the very edge of technical feasibility and in the course of the discussion of the route with the mayor of the municipalities, the location of the outside line 110 kV was changed several times within the corridor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u27	Minister, I must interrupt you. I know we're gonna run out of time today, but rules are rules. Mr Hovorka is about to ask you an additional question, you will have two more minutes, you will surely complete your answer. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u28	Thank you for the floor, and thank you, Minister, for the answer that will certainly be added. However, while I am aware of the need for safe supply of electricity, it is still really important to consider whether only one route and the selected place from which the Slušovice leadership is to be brought is the only option, because E.ON Distribution has the possibility to connect from Otrokovice and another option is to connect from Střelné. But there is CEZ Distribution, it would have to be from another operator, but basically the interventions on the landscape around the pilgrimage site would be minimized. So I want to ask you about possible rerouting, even if the original resemblance remains, whether it is possible to bypass a particular pilgrimage site in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u29	Okay. The Minister has two more minutes. Colleague Hovorka has exhausted his minute. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u30	I'm sorry I couldn't finish the answer in the first part. I understand the concerns that the honourable Member has raised. I'd just like a refill. Other changes associated with the construction are also considered in the area of the pilgrimage site in Provodov's cadastral territory, where according to our information, as we have them, the existing outdoor high voltage lines will be transferred, placed in a country in the corridor of the newly built outdoor line 110 kV, which will be located at maximum distance from the pilgrimage point. It is in this location that the distributor plans to take advantage of the masts with minimal height. Currently, this is the addition of this information, E.ON is processing new project documentation for territorial management and part of this documentation should also be the EIA process, i.e. the assessment of the environmental impact of the construction. If you want, we will try to get additional information on this, especially in relation to the pilgrimage site you mentioned. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u31	Thank you to Minister Havlíček and continue with the seventh interpellation, by interpelling Mrs Gabriela Pecková to Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u32	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister. A personal experience brings me here today. I keep my practice to a limited extent because I treat patients, retain expertise, and also have great feedback for my work as a Member. I presend that I support the electronization of health care and from 1 January 2018 I will be obliged to exhibit electronic recipes. Because I'm disciplined, I put on comfortable shoes and set out for the Czech Post Tour. The Czech Post is the organ that is supposed to provide us with so-called doctors. safe key for electronic signature, which is a basic condition for electronic recipe. On all the mail I went around, maybe a little different wording, but I've always heard, "Well, that's our nightmare. Don't come in here. There's no one here who can. We haven't been trained, we can't, look at the website. I did all that, but I didn't succeed. So I turned to the Department of Health, where the first question was whether I was a journalist. When I denied it, they told me, so send us an e-mail, we'll answer you. Indeed, after a week, they replied that it did not concern them, and that it is in the competence of the State Institute for Drug Control, which manages the repository. After all, I think that the Ministry of Health's responsibility is and that the project, however well thought out, and basically it's not yesterday's project, but it's been here a long time, it's very unprepared at the moment, both technically and legally, because we don't even have an implementing decree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u33	Madame, two minutes have passed, so you will apply to the supplementary question. The Minister of Health will surely have some experience with this, although he does not have Czech mail in the resort. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, I must apologize for the way they treated you at the Ministry of Health, and I will indeed investigate this, and I do not like it. However, I have one thing to say. You asked for an electronic signature, I presume. [[No.]] For what? I'm sorry because I understood. The condition for you to work is an electronic signature for so-called. Token. If that's not the point, I'm sorry, I don't think I understand. Are you interested in communicating between you and the SÚKL? So now I'm a little bit embarrassed by legislation, because I don't know much, Mr President, what now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u35	The way I'm going to do it is that you'll only have two minutes after that, Minister, but I'll be tolerant, because I think the Member will fill in the question in the minute she has. I'm tolerance myself today. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u36	So we can understand each other better. Doctors don't need, they don't need an electronic signature, but something called a safe key to an electronic signature. This information has been obtained by us doctors. When we go to the post office, they say yes, we don't have to do your electronic signature, you need the key, but we don't know how to do that. Perhaps it is the implementing decree that is lacking that would allow us to focus on this and to obtain what we will really be able to use from 1 January.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u37	Okay. The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u38	I get it. This is a higher security electronic signature. That's what they call it. Tokens that you really must publish at CzechPoint or Czech Post. That's not really coming behind us. It's a higher form of electronic communication just to make it safer to transfer those data between you. This is not a normal electronic signature, but it is a higher form of electronic signature that is recorded on so-called. Tokens. That means you have to ask for it specifically. I'm a little worried that there's been a miscommunication at the post office, because if you go to CzechPoint, and because I know that PostSignum and the first certification are publishing it, I know it from Motol, I always have to go back to practicing, so that's where it is. You must ask for what you rightly called, but you must ask not at the Czech Post Office, but at the First Certification or at PostSignum and one more, but it is all things through the Czech Post Office. So, frankly, maybe a little bit for Mr. Chovanec. I'm sorry, but it's strictly security. Otherwise, I think there's another one of your interpelations on a similar subject. [[It's been canceled.]] Okay. It's a higher form of security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u39	I guess we got along just fine. At this point, it would be better to interpel with the Home Secretary, he's absent. I don't know if he'll respond to your interpellation. Unless the Minister of Health asks the Home Secretary, but I'll leave that to them. We are now going to interpelace number 8 and that is the interpelation of Mrs Olga Havlová to Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, you were not yet Minister of the Ministry of Industry and Trade when Dawn fought for an independent regulator. Nevertheless, the House has enforced the ERU Council. Therefore, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you have proposed Mr Ing's Energy Regulatory Authority to the Council. Rostislav Krejcar, who was also responsible for the department of support for renewable resources at the ERU. This department set purchase prices from photovoltaic power plants in 2009 and 2010. For gross violation of the Labour Code he was with . Krejcar in 2012 with immediate effect untied in the ERU. The conditions for promoting renewable resources under its leadership have led to a subsequent boom in these power plants and high purchase prices have caused a fatal impact on the economy, the economy and, consequently, the standard of living of our citizens. How is it possible that this person was put into the newly established council of an independent regulator? This is illustrated by the indisputable fact that the occupation of important posts is politically occupied. For these reasons, I ask whether you consider, as the Minister responsible for Energy, to remedy the appointment and dismissal of members of the ERU Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u41	Thank you for keeping the time to interpel. The Minister is ready. Interpellation was clear. The competence of the Minister of Industry and Trade is clear, too. The Minister has five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u42	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, Mrs Havlová, you, in your interview, are based on the comments of the former President of the Energy Regulatory Office, Mrs Alena Vitásková, who sent a letter to me and the Prime Minister on this matter, which we will, of course, respond to. However, let me remind you that under the Energy Act, the Energy Regulatory Authority has been headed by the Energy Regulatory Authority since 1 August of this year by the Council of the Energy Regulatory Authority, which has five members. One of the members of the Board is the President who directs its activities. To this date, the Energy Regulatory Authority was led by the Chair of the Energy Regulatory Authority. The Government appointed members of the Council on a proposal from the Minister of Industry and Trade on 1 August, by appointing one member for a term of one year, another member for a period of two years and so on, the last member for a period of five years. The President of the Council shall be appointed for a maximum of three years. I would like to remind you that the law clearly lays down the rules and conditions for the appointment of board members, and I would like to point out that these conditions are quite strict, at least as far as the technical practice in the field of energy is concerned, so there are also a lot of other restrictive conditions. Indeed, the proposal to select board members was not a trivial issue, given the role and competence of the Energy Regulatory Authority in the energy sectors and the responsibility of its management. Therefore, I have announced publicly and sufficiently in advance the opportunity for interested parties to submit their CVs so that I have a sufficiently and transparently guaranteed range of candidates from which I can choose. I would like to mention that a total of 23 candidates have entered this selection, four of which have not fulfilled the conditions laid down by law. On my proposal, the Government has appointed these five members of the Board, including the President, and all appointed members meet the criteria set out in the Energy Act in full and in full. To be honest, it could be expected that those who opposed the Council and its scope before and after the entry into force of the Energy Act would continue both before and after the appointment of the Board. I think it is necessary to realise that the Energy Regulatory Authority Council is not a political body, but a grouping of experts in the field of energy, in its entirety. I think that it is not possible to constantly attack and question both the activities of the board as a whole and its individual members. According to the information available to me, the new Council has taken up its functions actively and intensively and is perceived positively by the public and the professional public. I think she has a very demanding job ahead of her, and I think we should rather wish the Energy Regulatory Board good luck and success in order to succeed in this difficult task. As for you mentioned member of Mr Ing's board. Rostislav Krejcar, I would like to remind you that Mr Rostislav Krejcar is a respected energy expert. He used to be the head of the Department of Electrical Engineering, which is what you mentioned here. He has worked at the Energy Regulatory Authority since 2002. He currently works partly as a consultant in the energy sectors, but also teaches at the university, namely the Czech Technical University, Faculty of Electrical Engineering. I don't think it is for politicians to question the expertise of individual members of the board, and I don't think it makes sense at this point to respond to the political statements made by the former President, Mrs Vitásková. I, of course, will respond to the letter he sent me in that deadline. However, Mr Rostislav Krejcar has fulfilled all the conditions laid down by law, is a recognised expert and I think that we should evaluate the activities of the board as a whole over a longer period of time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u43	I thank the Minister for his time to answer. Mrs Havlová has the right to follow-up questions. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u44	Minister, I didn't question his professional prowess at all. But I am even more concerned that there were 18 choices to choose from, and you chose the person who made the prizes for which all the citizens of our Republic are suffering today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u45	Now I'm asking the Minister if he wants a follow-up answer. No, he won't use his two minutes, and the interpellation's over. Another interviewer is Mr. Jiří Holeček, who intersects the Minister of Education Stanislav Štech on priorities in the field of sport. Well, that'll be very interesting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u46	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear Minister, on 1. 1. The amendment to the Sport Support Act has become effective in 2017. Section 1a of this amendment sets out the main priorities in the field of sport. Among these main priorities, the legislator included support for the sport of children and young people, including their trainers. You and the Ministry you managed this year out of less than CZK 6 billion intended to promote sport decided that the sport of children and youth and their trainers in sports clubs will only support CZK 811 million, so that is only 14 percent of the total. I ask you why you and your Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports do not honor and obey the law in force. How much longer will parents in our country have to bear the major financial participation in the sport of their children? Why did you decide this year that from public funds, sports officials pay more money than the sports activities of children in sports clubs? Thank you for your attention. I look forward to your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u47	I thank Mr Jiří Holečka and, according to the Rules of Procedure, you will receive a reply from the Minister within 30 days. It will certainly be interesting, it will be shortly before the elections, so it will certainly be very interesting not only for you. We continue with Mr Jiří Štětina, who intersects Minister Martin Stropnický, but colleague Štětinka is not here, so his application is forfeit. We are going to continue with another interpelling, which is the interpelling of Mrs Zuzana Šánová to Deputy Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek in support of research and development. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u48	Thank you for the floor. Hello, colleagues. I was approached by a tax entity to present his story here. That's what I do. Dear Minister, we are a company engaged only in research and development. Every year we apply a deduction to research and development in accordance with the Income Tax Act. Every year, at the explicit request of the Financial Office, we attach our projects to the tax return. Since 2012, the tax office has always measured the tax consistently, which is according to our tax return, including deductible items. After three years, the tax office carried out tax checks on our company for the period 2012 to 2014, consisting only of checking the deductible item for research and development, provided us with all deductions, dealing only with the formal page. The tax administrator himself acknowledged that our company is really only engaged in research and development, documented and patented, and yet delivered because it believes that we do not fully comply with the Income Tax Act when we do not monitor separately the costs of research and development, and this separate monitoring of our company lacks meaning because we do not carry out any other activity. In total, our tax company has to pay half a million crowns for these three tax periods without accessories. This digit is vanquishing for us. We are constantly hearing, reading how important it is to support research and development, how privileged it is, how you try as a minister, how you put in for even greater support, but reality is different. You may try to get more resources to give entrepreneurs, but they return them to a considerable extent by means of a tax receipt and subsequent periodic penalty payments. That is why I ask you, Minister, if you know of this situation, which has become common in recent years, whether you intend to deal with it. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And what are you possibly going to do to improve it? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u49	Thank you. There was no chance of an additional question when the Minister wasn't here to give you an answer, of course you had a chance to pronounce the question so that it would be on the log. The Deputy Prime Minister will have to answer you in writing within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act because he is not present. That concludes the interview and continues Mrs Chalánková, who is also not present. Since it is about financing sport, she will certainly be happy to use the written answer requested by Mr Holeček in his interpellation. Her interpellation is failing. We are with Mr Ludvík Hovorka, who intersects the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík on the grounds of different payments for the same care between Prague and Zlin. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u50	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in the past, I have intersected because of different payments in hospitals in the Zlín Region, especially in the Regional Hospital of Tomáš Baťa, and between hospitals in Prague. You answered me, and you said that there are numerous remedies in the approximation of basic rates, the most important is DRG Restart and so on and so on. I'll try to say once again that I was based on the real data I got. Indeed, EMU units 2001 to 2015 compares with type A hospitals, when Tomáš Baťa Regional Hospital is, I think, the 12th largest hospital in the Czech Republic. These hospitals seem to consider EMU's methodology comparable with VZP and also compare when it lists the costs of the cheapest hospital, the costs of the average hospital and the costs of the specific Zlín Hospital for each diagnosis according to the DRG. Hospitals that show lower costs theoretically make diagnoses more effectively if they do not prosper, while cost-effective hospitals thrive, it means that something is wrong with payment orders or additions, or payments are crooked. Cost should fail and inexpensive and economical hospitals should prosper, but in practice it is the opposite. It became clear to me that in 2011, Zlín was cost cheaper by 115 million, in 2012 by 120 million. and in 2013 by 152 million. Crowns. That's only in three years. These are huge differences, and I want to know how these differences will be eliminated. There is no way that there is a different remuneration for the same care in Prague, Brno and Zlín or other places.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u51	Mr. Ambassador, you've run out of time for the basic question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u52	I ask for an answer to a specific question as to how the payments for the same care will unite. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u53	I'm sure the Minister of Health is ready. That's his field. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u54	Thank you, Mr President. These are actually the very last interpelations I've probably had in my life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u55	Not yet, you still have a sea of them. You still have enough by the end of the day.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u56	Ambassador, there's one single letter that relativizes the whole thing. They do not compare the costs of diagnosis, but of diagnosis, or of a group of diagnoses, and that is the eternal problem that DRG is making. What you're quoting here is a comparison to a group of diagnoses. Backpack is a specific problem. From regional hospitals, it's really the worst at the moment. At this point, a new director, who I trust very much, has joined. He's experienced at the faculty hospital, and I think he'll be able to put it together. It is more about how it is shown, what is emphasized, how individual diagnoses are coded. The backpack is a really big county hospital. It's one of the pillars, because basically 14 regional hospitals should be the basic pillars of specialized care, not super, but definitely specialized, and Bata has a certain problem that there aren't so many centers, I feel like there's no center, so it's just a summary of things that appear there. I wouldn't say it's a different remuneration. I quite understand that it is before the elections and it is necessary to define itself against Prague and Brno, but it is not entirely true. It's just not true that they're paid better somewhere, somewhere less paid. I'm sorry for the expression, but it's really due to a stupid system. I just had a three-hour crazy argument at the ministry about a new payment decree that should sort this out somehow. I'll make you happy. There's gonna be an arcus tangent function. I think that after using the arcus tangents, which is a popular function for cropping the fluctuations on both sides of the function, we're going to get something after all. But I admit, the DRG we're coding for is just wrong. We're gonna have to get to that. Dr. Dušek kind of signals that 2019 should be the first according to DRG Restart. Let's see what it looks like. We're gonna have to write this down from the old one, but one of my terms was to cut off too low and too high individual rates just to keep hospitals from failing, as you rightly said.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u57	Thank you. Mr Hovorka is going to a supplementary question. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u58	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I just want to say, if I go back to the past, Minister Heger, when he came into office, our colleague, he said that within five years we would unite the basic rates. I know you weren't here, but a lot of time has passed today. The rates have not united, there have been some coefficients for Minister Holcát, today the basic rate is coming closer again, as I heard, by 2,000 crowns to 26,000, but there are still huge differences. And the difference between large hospitals in Brno, Prague, Ostrava and regional hospitals remains. The people who work there want to know when it will unite. DRG Restart won't solve it. He's just gonna say there's some kind of average diagnosis load, but then somebody has to decide when there's a hospital--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u59	Ambassador, please respect the time. I understand it's uncomfortable, but I have nothing else to do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u60	I'll finish the sentence. When hospitals have payments, let's say they're the same as average, nothing happens. But there are hospitals that have significantly lower or significantly higher. And that means that someone then has to decide politically when it's going to get even and how it's going to work out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u61	Mr. Ambassador, you're switching my patience because then somebody's gonna accuse me of not getting an interview. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u62	Mr President, you can say that you let Ludvík speak, and then it will work. But you're right to some extent, but the problem is that the system calculates the basic rate of care previously given. I really think there was a bit of a management problem and that in Baťovka, a similar problem is svatý Anna, and that there will be some adjustments in these hospitals precisely because they will be able to, say, show it better. I really think there was a reporting problem at Baťa's. And I'm just doing what I know how to do. And it takes them 15 years to cultivate it and 15 years to have one basic rate in the whole republic -- so the Němec started it, they take them 15 years to cut off the worst and the best every year. And they still haven't reached a uniform basic rate after 15 years of German precision and reliability. And we're in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u63	Thank you. So we settled the time in some way, because the Minister spared me, and we can continue. Mrs Zuzana Šánová intersects Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný. Support for research and development again. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u64	Thank you for the floor. And once again, the same story, but with a slightly different ending, for the Minister of Finance. We are a company engaged only in research and development. Every year we apply a deduction to research and development in accordance with the Income Tax Act. Every year, at the explicit request of the Financial Office, we attach our projects to the tax return. Since 2012, the tax office has always measured the tax consistently, i.e. according to our tax return, including deductible items. After three years, the tax office carried out tax checks on our company for the period 2012 to 2014 consisting solely of checking the deductible item for research and development and providing us with all deductions, dealing only with the formal page. The tax administrator himself acknowledged that our company is really only engaged in research and development, documented and patented, and yet delivered because it believes that we do not fully comply with the Income Tax Act when we do not monitor separately the costs of research and development, and this separate monitoring of our company lacks meaning because we do not carry out any other activity. In total, our tax company will pay half a million crowns for these three periods without accessories. This digit is vanquishing for us. Our company is not an isolated case. It is we, small entrepreneurs, who pay for the procedure and approach of financial administration, for which one reality does not apply equally in different tax periods. The Constitutional Court itself has recently stated that the Income Tax Act is a legal standard in which entrepreneurs are no longer able to navigate, and neither is the tax administrator himself, as evidenced by his practice. Therefore, Minister, I ask you whether you know of this situation, which has become common in recent years, whether you intend to address it or not, whether you are considering adapting the law in this area. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u65	I thank Mrs Šánová for her time, and the Minister will certainly reply in writing to his party colleague and within 30 days under the Rules of Procedure Act. My colleague Štětina is already present and it is his turn to complete the reorganisation of the national centre of organized crime. Mr. Milan Chovanec is excused. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u66	Hello, Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, an article has been published in Security Magazine, which makes a fundamental comment on the so-called 'Security Magazine'. Reorganization of the Police of the Czech Republic. And it's like this: it's exclusively accomplished. The chovanec will bury the IOOZ torso five days before the election. Mazánek'd rather take a vacation. Now, get to the point. Five days before the House elections should be completed so-called. Reorganization of the Organized Crime Detection Unit, ÚOOZ, transfer of NCOZ, National Centre against Organised Crime, under the Regional Police Directorate. Security Magazine received this information from a well-informed source within the Police of the Czech Republic. Dear Minister, should I consider this information real, purposeful, untrue? I personally have my opinion on the reorganisation or reform of the police, which I have not communicated to the relevant investigative commission because of the promise of confidentiality of the interview with the high-ranking official of the Police of the Czech Republic, but the personnel policy of occupying the regional directorate positions in some regions makes me afraid that this may also be true. Dear Minister, I beg you to tell me what the truth is. Thank you in advance and I expect to receive a written reply by the end of this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u67	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin for his time, and I believe that the Minister will fulfil his constitutional duty to reply in writing. We continue to interpel Mr Antonín Sed, who intersects the Minister of Transport, who is present. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, I learned from the media that the Chairman of the ANO 2011 Regional Organization, your deputy, longtime ally of the owner of Agrofert and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the Czech Railways, Milan Feranec intends to buy CHAPS for ČD. This ends with a monopoly on the collection and processing of timetable data. CHAPS should not buy Czech Railways, but a subsidiary of České dráhy - Information Systems, a joint-stock company, allegedly worth CZK 400 million. According to public information, CHAPS has not published the financial statements since 2012. However, in that year the profit of this company was CZK 5 million and this would correspond to the value of the company as a tenth of the declared purchase price. Dear Minister, I would like to ask how the purchase of CHAPS is currently planned and whether you do not think it is the planned tunnel of the Czech Railways. I read somewhere that as a minister, you intend to suspend this purchase. I can understand that CHAPS may be of strategic importance to the Czech Railways, but you must act as a proper manager and have political responsibility. Will you check or have you already checked this upcoming purchase of the company that owns the well-known IDOS search engine? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u69	Thank you, Mr Antonín Seďa, for keeping time on the question of the Minister of Transport, and Minister Dan Ťok is ready to answer. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u70	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to repeat the facts here. The facts are that České dráhy is a joint-stock company owned by the state and is managed as a company by the board of directors. He has a supervisory board. So that Mr. Feranec, as chairman of the Supervisory Board, buys or negotiates something, is excluded. That's the first thing. The second issue is that, yes, there was information in the media about the fact that ČDIS's subsidiary is interested in buying CHAPS, but not because of the development of the timetable, but as I was informed, so since CHAPS is actually a supplier of all IT systems for the Czech Railways, and from this point of view IDOS and the development of the timetable is in no way a matter of the Czech Railways, but especially the Ministry of Transport. That's where the situation is handled in a completely different way. I've read, like you in the media, speculation that he's going to, or is going to buy this company for 400 million. Someone argued that it was worth 120 million. That is why I have said that I recommend to the Board of Directors, or I ask the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways to present their opinions to me as to whether they know how much the company is in, what situation it is in, and I have recommended not to conclude any contracts and take any steps before we talk about it. It'll be next week. I have a meeting. At the same time, the meeting will be a meeting where I promised Mrs Langšádlová that I would discuss with them the ones on regional trains. And I want to know what steps they're taking to make public money here, because ČD belongs to the state, only doing operations that are okay and where there's no problem. I am convinced that such an operation should be very transparent, it is necessary to know what all the parameters are. [[15.40 hours]] I just want to say one thing here that the reason or what I got for the information is the reason that the owner of CHAPS wants to sell the company. And the Czech Railways have a bit of a problem in this situation so that they do not get into the same problems as in Telematics, when the share was sold three times, and the Czech Railways do not control Telematics enough. So that by chance, the absolutely essential source issues regarding the information systems of the Czech Railways would not be in the hands of someone third who might have used it to use some tunnel you suggested. I mean for myself, there's no tunnel here, if I can and I have time at the time, I won't allow it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u71	I thank Minister Dan Took, and my colleague Seďa is going on a supplementary question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u72	Thank you. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I'm sorry, but I was using the media, so I guess the information wasn't exactly accurate. So thank you for the clarification. I just wanted to ask you, Mr. Minister, when you deal with the Board of Directors of the Czech Railways and get the information, if you could give it to me in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u73	Thank you. The Minister will answer the supplementary question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u74	Just for a very short time. Of course, I'm not doing anything that's not public. Here I would perhaps mention one more thing: Mr. Deputy Bělčík Belčík, who was nominated for social democracy for the Board of Directors, is doing the entire operation, so you could also have some independent control that the things that are going to happen are going to happen properly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u75	Thank you and we continue with the 17th interpellation and that is the interpelation of Mrs Gabriela Pecková to the Minister of Health on electronic transcription, but the Member is not here if I have not overlooked her. She's not here, so her application is failing. And we have an interpelation of the 18th and that is the interpellation of Mr Bohuslav Chalupa to the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec in the case of the reorganisation of the Police of the Czech Republic. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u76	Good afternoon again. Dear absent Minister, I would like to address you with another interview. Last week, I learned from the press that the reform of the police units of ÚOOZ and ÚOKFK did not end in unification under the headquarters against organized crime. The information provided by Security Magazine shows that the remaining V1 and V4 services are to be transferred to the relevant Regional Directorates as part of the subsequent reorganisation. In addition, everything is scheduled to take place a few days before the election. So I want to ask you in relation to these data: firstly: Is this information based on the truth? What's the future of the former UOOZ unions? Secondly, have you talked to the Minister of Finance about any increase in budgets of individual regional directorates? Third: Was there a discussion on this topic with the Police Presidium's leaders? Did conflicting opinions also appear? Fourth: Allegedly, monitoring services are to be decentralized. Can you please disprove this message, confirm it, or reveal the details? And fifthly, do you think it would be appropriate to at least inform the members of the Security Committee about this further organizational change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u77	Thank you, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, and I thank Mr Bohuslav Chalup for keeping the time to ask questions. I think this will be an appropriate addition, and Minister chovanec will be very busy answering Mr. Štětina's answers to you as well. Mr Antonín Seďa is intersecting Minister Jurečka on contaminated egg products. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear absent minister, according to the media, several tons of egg products contaminated with poisonous insecticide fipronil have arrived in our country. This warning from Germany was received by the State Veterinary Administration. She started saving this information. By the way, contaminated eggs were discovered in 40 countries around the world and also in 24 member countries of the European Union. Dear Minister, there is a serious concern that contaminated eggs or egg products have already entered the food chain. Allegedly, contaminated eggs did not appear in the Czech Republic, at least according to information from the State Veterinary Administration, but according to the media, for example, Mondelez announced the withdrawal of six lots of gold yolk wreaths from our market. Yesterday there was a report that Slovak veterinarians discovered poisonous fipronil in boiled eggs produced in our country. Dear Minister, how did the fipronil tests turn out for the state veterinary inspection? Are you really sure this substance didn't get into food and sales? And how will you ensure that there is a consistent control of imported food or food products in our country? Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u79	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. The answer should be prepared within 30 days and sent to you. Proceeding with interpelling number 20. Mrs Pecková is still not here, so this interpellation to the Minister of Health is also failing. And we are at the interview of Mr Ludvík Hovorka to the Minister of Education Stanislav Štech. Interpelation number 21 on inclusion costs and changes to school law. Minister Štech is not present, he is excused, so we will only have one question. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u80	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, as you know, the law approved the inclusion of children with special needs. And the inclusion is very expensive. It is in its extremism and unilaterality harmful to all. The association of local authorities warned and also submitted proposals that were not taken into account in the amendment of the school law. I would like to ask for the protection of schools, our schools, before the costs fall on the founders. If they do not receive money from the Ministry of Education for assistants, they will be paid by law by the founders, because the law is approved so that the pupil has a legal claim that the school must fulfil. The solution is to soften the requirement for inclusion by an amendment to the law. To take account of the decision whether the school is able to educate a specific pupil by its personnel and material equipment and building layout, and then combine this with the positive motivation of schools to be interested in these pupils, and to support the founder in the necessary construction adjustments. But apparently, the Ministry of Education doesn't have the money to finance inclusion. Therefore, I wanted to ask you to propose an amendment to § 16 to specify the entitlement to the support measures in the following text: In Section 16, a new paragraph is added which I proposed when approving a law which did not pass one vote, in this form: "Definition of § 16 para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 8 shall apply mutatis mutandis by the ability and overall educational possibilities of the pupil and shall take into account the possibilities of school and class.'; Dear Minister, thank you and I hope that you will address this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u81	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. You will receive the Minister's opinion within 30 days and this interpelation is over. Now, Antonín Seďa intersects Minister Stropnický. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u82	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, I am sorry, but I have agreed with the Minister that he will give me an answer to this oral interview in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u83	Okay, thank you, so this interpellation is over, too. And we have here the interview number 23 of Mr Ludvík Hovorka's Member to Minister Richard Brabec on EIA's construction of high voltage lines. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u84	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, we have already discussed a matter in which I have also intersected Minister Havlíček. It is a line of a very high voltage 110 kV from Slušovice to Slavičín, which is intended to lead through the pilgrimage site of Maleniska in the cadastral area of Provodov around the famous pilgrimage place, where the spring is very high quality drinking water. I would like to ask whether the Ministry of Health already has an environmental impact assessment available and whether it is not possible to change or modify this route, which is designed in a rather insensitive way, to avoid this pilgrimage site. [[the environment was to be said]] I have a map here, so I can show you so you can have a look. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u85	Minister of the Environment and Deputy Prime Minister Richard Brabec is ready to answer. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u86	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you for asking. I'd just fix it a little bit. Mr colleague, you asked, by your means, Mr President, if the Ministry of Health has the documentation. I don't know. A colleague of Ludvík would have to say that. [[With a smile.]] But I'm sure I'd be happy to comment on that for the Ministry of the Environment. But you've already intersected the Minister of Health repeatedly today, so I guess you're left with it. I'd just like to make a brief comment. It's been falling out here today, so I'm gonna be really, really brief. I would like to say that the White Carpathians' Management of the Protected Landscape Area has repeatedly issued a dissenting position on the route, i.e. on the management of the VVN in the territory of the CHKO - this was the EIA already in 2000, which you probably know - and also on the decision on the location of the building in 2004 because no alternative option was investigated to address the preservation of the landscape. So we dealt with this for the first time 17 years ago, and then there were several appeals. It was re-examined by the Department of Public Administration in Olomouc as an appeal body. He returned to renegotiate, to complete the documentation. Once again, the dissenting position of the White Carpathian Administration was, this time, August 30, 2005, and it was going back to the wheel. The current situation is like this today. There is currently no valid opinion, the original opinion of the EIA for the action in question. In 2016, the investor's representative began to process new documentation. In the summer of 2016, the investor of the White Carpathian Landscape Management and the municipality concerned requested preliminary comments on the route of the management as a basis for the processing of documentation under Act No. 100/2001 Sb., i.e. the EIA Act. So far, the last statement of the White Carpathian Administration, this was dated August 15, 2016, again drew attention to inappropriate tracking through landscaped valuable sites and the absence of alternative solutions and requested the extension of documentation by at least one real alternative option to address the preservation of landscape nature in those visually exposed places. Only after the end of the EIA process will binding opinions be issued within the meaning of Section 12 of Law No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation. In August 2016 and in March and June this year, the Department of Impact Assessment and Integrated Prevention of the Ministry of the Environment submitted a notification of the intention to conduct electricity 2 x 110 kV Slavičín - Slušovice, which was repeatedly returned to the notifier for completion. At the moment we do not have information at the Ministry of the Environment that a request for the initiation of the investigation procedure or notification of the intention would be submitted. In the framework of the investigation procedure, respectively. in the context of a statement of intent, where appropriate. Other documents will then be able to express their intention according to Act No. 100/2001 Sb. to make various comments within the time limits set and in its observations. That's actually, Mr. Colleague, the way we looked at it yesterday, and you didn't actually find the intention on the list. And you didn't find him there because he didn't really get into the system yet. So at the moment, the situation is that the process has to start all over again. The investor will actually have to go through a rather complex route and all comments from municipalities and other entities will have to be taken into account in the EIA process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u87	Thank you for keeping the time to answer. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is applying for an additional question. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u88	Dear Minister, thank you so much for the rather exhausting answer. Nevertheless, I would like to ask that the Ministry of the Environment, on the basis of the process of managing the protected landscape area in its decision-making process, bear in mind that this is indeed a very valuable location. In order to really, if possible, resolve the change of route, because the power options of Slavicín are certainly from other places, e.g. Gunshot or Slavovice. And at the very least, I think it's an option to avoid the most valuable place in Malenisky in Provodov's cadastral territory. So I'd be happy if you'd look into it, Minister, and the Ministry would say so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u89	Mr. Secretary? [[He's not interested.]] It's okay. This interpelation is over, and we're going to be dealing with the 24 interpelation. Mr Ludvík Hovorka intersects the Minister of Health on the subject of mandatory e-recept. You have your word, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u90	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, I would just like to touch on the obligation to prescribe all medicinal products in electronic form only. Until now, there is not yet an implementing decree for the Act on Medicines and Nervousness between practitioners, practitioners for children and adolescents, but also for outpatient specialists it is very high. They also point out that many doctors in these fields are of very old age and at least 15 percent of doctors do not have documentation in electronic form, which means that if the Ministry insists in the implementing regulation solely on the prescription in electronic form, those doctors simply end up with a blackout of those older doctors in the field who will not be able to work because they will not have electronic documentation, they will not prescribe electronic recipes. I have heard of some motivation in the payment decree, about CZK 1.60 for the item on the recipe, but nevertheless doctors warn you of practical problems and possible network outages, and they also point out that their administration is constantly increasing and that their work is getting complicated. They say that a transitional period should be introduced, as it was necessary in Slovakia, for the electronic recipe to run gradually. So these are the reservations that have been raised very strongly, they have also been made to the Committee on Health, and on 21 September, on the last Committee on Health, we want to look into this and I hope that we will already have a proposal - the final draft implementing decree. [[The President refers to the supplementary question]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u91	Thank you. Please, the Minister has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u92	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Ten percent of them, because the practical doctors were at the Ministry yesterday, reported 10 percent. I've come to this too, among other things, blind to violins. Because, as far as I know, the debate on whether or not to interrupt or delay or in any way took place on the Health Committee two years ago, I guess, I wasn't a minister yet. As a result, do not interrupt or change. Anyway. The electronic recipe has basically been discussed legislatively since 2009 and since 2013 it has been in the law. It's not mandatory, it's actually voluntary, and the starting curve is five years. The number of doctors who have joined this is slim. So I have to argue a little bit whether or not it's a transitional period. It is. Five years. That's the first thing. [[16.00 hours]] Second thing. Every time I hear about a doctor quitting because he doesn't run anything electronically, I'm scared. I'm terrified because at this point, all communication between a doctor and a health insurance company is being made electronically. If a doctor doesn't have IT technology, I ask how he passes data to a health insurance company. He's definitely gonna hand it over to someone else who's gonna process the data. Well, yes, but in that case, in a very brutal way, he violates the law and the protection of personal data. And I'm wondering if those patients are understood that their very sensitive data will also be in the hands of someone who is not covered by medical secrets. That's the first thing. The second thing, I always ask how this guy even finds out when a defective batch of drugs is downloaded, which puts the SÚKL on his website. Or if he wants to find out how a new drug is being scrubbed, because AISLP is now only available on a network basis. I could ask you this. And every time I hear they're older people, I always remember my 88-year-old mother, who works and communicates with the computer in such a way that she oversaw the e-mails that always fills me up, it's sometimes really overwhelming, but she doesn't have a problem with it. So I kind of have to say no. You are right about one thing - implementing decrees. There are five of them, and at this point, they're at the stage of being presented in time enough for the public to meet them. But what are these mythical decrees dealing with? A system where it falls out, not just a situation where it can't prescribe. When the Internet or electricity goes out, we return to good old-fashioned paper recipes. Normally, no problem. So in other words, there's only gonna be a problem that we have to figure out who's going to digitize the recipes, if it's going to be doctors, if the system isn't working out again, and then, of course, it has to be bonified for it, or if it's going to be a pharmacy. And that's what we're dealing with right now, and that's probably the only thing. But other than that, frankly, it's not a big deal. And while you're talking about the rising administration, I'm going back to my practice as director of the hospital. I remember what kind of objections I heard when they came from hand-written computer-written recipes. That's right, we've heard it extend and somewhere else. So then the deputy chief of the gynecological clinic, Roman Chmel, got upset, sat in front of all the doctors in the auditorium in front of the computer and showed them that it was going faster, that it was faster than when he wrote it with his hand. I think the same thing will happen with the electronic recipe. It's just a habit. I'm thinking, he's finally gonna show who, where, when, how many prescribed drugs, how many really picked up, how many didn't pick up. Christ, that is what we have been longing for 25 years in the Czech health sector!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u93	Thank you, Minister. I shall ask the Member for an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u94	Thank you. Minister, I will wait for the results when we learn everything, but yet this transitional period was meant to mean that for a certain period of time, for example a year or two years, it was possible to prescribe medications in electronic form as well as in paper form, that is, from the start of the obligation. And the second thing is that really those doctors may be among the adult practices, there's ten percent among the practical doctors for children and there's 15 percent of them, as I've been informed, and they're also pointing out the issues that need to be dealt with with the call center, but they say the doctor will say: but I don't have time to wait for the call center to hear from someone, and just let the patient wait. They have the same problems in pharmacies when they send a patient somewhere, that they just can't give the cure, because it's not working or anything like that. So these are more practical things. And those doctors are saying if it's not behind it rather than what you say it is, how much you prescribe, how much you pay, how much you don't collect, if it's not behind the efforts of software companies to sell their products. This is often argued as the main reason for launching a mandatory electronic transcription.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u95	Mr. Ambassador, you and I both know we're not gonna know anything until after we're dead. Please, Minister, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u96	You scared me, Mr President. However, Mr. Ambassador, two things. First, this obligation is in the law. I didn't set her up there, she's just in the law. Frankly, the only way to do what you're proposing is to change the law. I'm not an MP. So that's my answer to what now, at this point... The Minister has nothing to do but the law at the moment. The Act was adopted by the Chamber of Deputies in 2009 with effect from 2013. Like at this point, it's just the situation. And the other thing about the call center and everything. First, the cure will be given because there will always be a guide to the drug, so frankly, here we are talking about who will digitize the recipe later. The fact that sometimes there might be a problem, that's exactly what the decree says. If there are technical reasons, the paper recipe will be issued, so frankly, the delay won't be there. Of course, regional authorities will have the right to check if the technical reason has occurred. If it didn't happen, there are penalties.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u97	I also thank the Minister for his assurance that the law still applies in our country. I'm so relieved. However, the gentlemen will switch again, Mr Hovorka has the last interview with the Minister of Health on the production of medical devices in the Czech Republic. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u98	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, following an amendment to the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on medical devices, the position of manufacturers of medical devices as well as notified persons has been significantly complicated. The Committee on Economics in Health has dealt with the situation and has adopted several motions for resolutions, which we also present to the Health Committee. In principle, the Czech Republic, the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and the State Institute for Drug Control with the representatives of those notified persons, seek to positively influence the final form of regulations, those directly applicable regulations, or some sort of implementing decree for this regulation of the European Union, because otherwise it would significantly jeopardise the production, certification or notification of those medical devices and also their development in the Czech Republic. There is also a request for negotiations between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Office for Technical Standardization, Metrology and State Testing to confirm the current division of competences in this matter, or some programme support for the system for assessing the conformity of medical devices by declaring targeted programmes. Above all, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, as well as the Ministry of Education, in coordination with state-controlled academic and research organisations, including clinical centres, should seek cooperation in order to make use of available technologies and available experts. Since the test institutes, the notified persons are not allowed to employ all the specialists and specialists who work at the faculty hospitals or the Academy of Sciences today. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u99	Minister, please, with one last taste.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u100	Thank you, Mr President. I didn't know I'd have the honor of answering that very last interview, but anyway... [[Petr Gazdík: The best in the end, Minister.]] However, in this context, or right now, I must tell Mr Hovorka that I completely agree with him in everything he has said. Here I really have to say that the Ministry of Health will really have the utmost effort to push, in cooperation with the Ministry of Industry and Trade, with the Office for Standardisation etc. etc., really push it to make those relevant assessments, notifications, those verifications... It's basically the same principle that they have to register drugs, so they're going to have medical devices, so that it's really in line with people, or patients, to get the safest and most unverified means. I really think it is one of the roles that the Ministry of Health must play as the main coordinating body. And for myself, although I will no longer be myself, but I can promise for myself that the Ministry of Health understands this and really will be very happy to take this role.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u101	The moment of consensus in the House of Commons always brings about the element of surprise. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your follow-up answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u102	Thank you very much, Minister, for your helpfulness. I would like to say that really manufacturers are dealing with those regulations that are very serious from the point of view of costs and from the point of view of obligations, and what they have to ensure. This means that the cost is also increasing, and the cost of the process is increasing very significantly, and of course... If the final resemblance of these regulations were to be very expensive to a large extent, it would make medical devices very expensive, then it would be reflected in the health system, because the funds would be far, far more expensive and maybe then they would buy some cheaper ones from China and so on. And then our products would probably be unavailable because medical devices couldn't pay for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u103	Thank you. And now for the very last interpellation... [[Minister Louis: I can't afford not to answer.]] The answer to the interpelation in this Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u104	I'm sure you're right, and the reality of life is that the drug registration process makes the drugs dramatically more expensive, clinical studies and so on, and so on. So here's the only problem, that as health care is not very unified within the European Union, this is one of the things where unification is pushed, and there I'm a little afraid. There will be really, I admit, a very high role of the ministry to find a balanced role in assessing these things. Finally, I would perhaps like to thank my most interpelling opponent in the House, Mr President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-029-092.u105	Yes, thank you. Please, a touching match will be followed at the end by a photo, family photo I presume. [[A group of five Members with the Minister of Health is being photographed for the applause of several remaining members.]] Thank you, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, and I am ending the last interpellation of this parliamentary term. I wish you the best of luck in the election.
