ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u1	270. Agriculture subsidy programmes for 2017 provided pursuant to § 1, § 2 and § 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended /German press 978/ This material will be presented by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u2	Good morning, Mr President, dear colleagues, dear guests. The grant programmes for 2017 are based on Section 1, Section 2 of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended, which provide that the State contributes to maintaining the production potential of agriculture and its contribution to the development of rural areas. At the same time, support creates the prerequisites for maintaining a populated and cultural landscape and developing non-production functions of agriculture that contribute to protecting environmental components. The subsidy programmes financed exclusively from national resources are implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture pursuant to Section 2d (2) of the abovementioned Act and are administered on the basis of its principles. The submitted material contains subsidy programmes for 2017, the purpose of which includes the scope of the funds pursuant to Section 2d (1) of Act No. 252/1997 Coll. approves the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament of the Czech Republic at the same time as the state budget for each year. The subsidy programmes are already building on the best programmes established by previous governments. The programmes were analysed and found to be effective. The programmes are specifically intended to support restructuring and increase the competitiveness of the Czech agrarian sector and the Czech countryside. In the submitted proposal for the amount of appropriations, the preferred animal production is. The reason for this is an attempt to prevent the adverse development of certain livestock sectors, which is essential for maintaining employment in the countryside, which currently loses its position mainly in the pig and poultry sector, even though there are conditions for competitive production under the conditions of the Czech Republic. Contrary to the previous year programme 16 - Maintaining and restoring the cultural heritage of the countryside, the purpose of which is to maintain and restore cultural elements of the rural landscape, which do not serve personal use or are not the subject of business, and programme 21 - Training Centres, the purpose of which is to improve the quality of vocational education of pupils and students of secondary and higher vocational schools, have not been included as subsidy programmes in the submitted material since 2017, and will be approved and administered in the EDS/SMVS Programme Financing System of the Ministry of Finance. The spectrum of other subsidy programmes remains the same as in 2016, only in the framework of which will be extended by new programmes 9FM - Demonstration Farms, 10ED - Support of the Czech Technology Platform for Plant Biotechnology and 10EE - Support of the Czech Technology Platform for Agriculture, and programme 1I can be extended if necessary by a sub-programme to support the transport of irrigation water. [[11.50 hours]] In accordance with § 2d para. 1 of Law No. 252/1997 Coll. the purpose and scope of the funds proposed for each programme, the form of the subsidy and the justification for the aid, are set out below. The subsidy programmes submitted pursuant to § 1, § 2 and § 2d of the Act on Agriculture do not contradict international agreements and agreements by which the Czech Republic is bound. The conditions for submitting applications, deciding and granting subsidies will be governed by the Ministry's principles in accordance with § 2d para. 2 of the Act on Agriculture. The draft funding for the 2017 subsidy programmes is set at 2 808 831 thousand by the State budget. Crowns. In view of this fact, the draft budget of the agricultural subsidy programmes for 2017 corresponds to the possibilities of the budget of Chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, while seeking to maintain continuity with previous years in proportion to the allocated funds for each programme. By dividing funds into individual subsidy programmes, a total of 1 914 131 thousand are directed to the livestock sector. CZK 267 million into the plant production sector, to the food sector 415 million. and other activities 212 miles. Crowns. The draft agricultural subsidy programmes for 2017 were approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 23 November 2016. The Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies discussed the draft subsidy programmes on 15 December of the same year at its 37th meeting, recommending by its resolution number 139 to the Chamber of Deputies to approve this document. At the same time, by its accompanying resolution No 140 on the resolution of the Agricultural Committee No 139, the Minister of Agriculture recommended that the Programme 8 be increased as a priority during 2017. Disease fund, 19. Aid for the participation of producers and processors of agricultural products in quality schemes and 20. Improving the living conditions of livestock farming in order to cover, to a maximum, the requirements of the applicants for grants in these programmes. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to approve the material I have now presented, as recommended by the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u3	Thank you, Minister. The resolution of the Agricultural Committee was delivered as the House's press 978/1. I ask that the Committee's rapporteur Mr Ladislav Velebný take the floor, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The Dear Government, honourable Members, the Agricultural Committee met and discussed on 15 December 2016 at its 37th meeting of the House Press 978 and adopted a resolution on agricultural subsidy programmes for 2017 in which it recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic approve the agricultural subsidy programmes for 2017. However, let me just remind you that the agricultural committee also adopted the accompanying resolution, which was mentioned here before me by the Minister, in which we recommend to the Minister of Agriculture during 2017 to increase funds to the disease fund and to the subsidy programme 19 and to the subsidy programme 20. The Minister has given this detailed information. That's how many news reports he's got. Thank you, and then I will make a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u5	Thank you. Before we go any further, I'll briefly read the apology. Ms. Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová apologizes for today's meeting in the afternoon for health reasons. I am now initiating a general debate, which Mr Pavera and Mr Bendl have so far joined. Mr Herbert Pavera has the floor, Mr Petr Bendl will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u6	Thank you. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, colleagues, let me say a few words to you on the agricultural subsidy programmes for 2017. Personally, I think that agriculture, as I say many times in my performances, needs subsidies to be competitive with European farmers as well as with food companies and other producers of agricultural products. I think that even the programs that are designed here are 17 in total in the vast majority are fine. I just want to stress that I appreciate that there is also a need for support for beekeeping, support for drip irrigation, restructuring fruit orchards, but it is also there, which is already new in modern history, as well as support for the activities of food banks and other humanitarian actors, which I think is excellent, as well as support for pond fishing. It is certainly good that we also support food competitiveness and, of course, improving the living conditions of livestock farming. In the past there have been quite problems with these conditions in the Czech Republic and I think that animals that are no longer ordinary things but living creatures deserve good conditions for their lives. What I do not agree with either myself or my colleagues is a form of support for some large, whether agricultural or food companies. The European Union gives priority to subsidies for small and medium-sized farmers and for small and medium-sized producers in the food industry. Unfortunately, the Czech Republic is one of the big exceptions. I must say that we are really one of the few who cut at least subsidies for large farmers and for large food companies. With us, just for the record, over 150 grand. EUR is reduced by 5%, which is the minimum required by the European Union. In other countries, for example, over 150 thousand. doesn't give any more subsidies to agricultural companies, and somewhere it's a lot lower. We can only go a little bit here to Austria, Poland, Hungary or Germany. Just so you know, when I requested from SZIF, what is the support from grant program No. 13, which is the Agricultural Product Support and Processing Programme and increasing the competitiveness of the food industry, only Agrofert Group companies receive subsidies of 26 percent, which is more than one quarter of all subsidy titles. The grant titles, for example, in programme 13 have risen from 131 million since 2012. almost 400 miles. CZK and, of course, the largest amount really goes into a group of huge companies that no longer belong to medium-sized companies, because the medium-sized company has a maximum of 250 employees, but those companies have 500 or more than 1,000 employees. I don't think such big companies in our country or anywhere else in the world need any public support, that they have enough profit to be competitive on their own. In this I think that the view of the Ministry of Agriculture on these grant titles should change. I know the Minister of Agriculture wants to return life to our country, our villages. I am from the Moravian-Silesian Region, I know that Podbeskydí, Jesenicko, Bruntálsko are areas that were once known for their agriculture. There were also state goods, which unfortunately were eventually destroyed, and today there is strong unemployment in those areas. If small-scale food production, such as processing of milk for cheese, etc., is supported there. or also the production of some other products, processing fruit and vegetables etc.... That's where I think these subsidies should be directed. I'm sure they'd do a lot better to support life in our country. [[12.00 hours]] And one last reminder. Maybe the minister will finally come forward and say that the little ones aren't asking for funding, even if the money's there. Maybe he's right. But when we look at the terms of all grant titles, year after year the conditions of individual subsidies are significantly complicated, there is much more bureaucracy. As mayor of the municipality of Bolatice, I have had experience with subsidies since 2002 when the first grant titles from the SAPARD programme began. It used to be two papers we filled out. Today it's a pile of paper, a stack of paper, because there's a bunch of bureaucrats who control it. So if the subsidy conditions for individual grants are not simplified, then the small ones, whether they are farmers or small producers, will never ask for these subsidies because it doesn't pay off. I believe that the Minister, who has included a lot of things that we have talked about in the past and which should help our agriculture, whether in the retention of water in the countryside or in the improvement of animal breeding conditions, etc., will also make it easier for small entrepreneurs or even new entrepreneurs to really start business in the countryside. Thank you for your attention. Finally, I will repeat that unfortunately, then, the members of the TOP 09 and the Mayors will not support this subsidy programme, which I regret to say very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before we continue, I will ask all colleagues to maintain their noise levels to an acceptable level. One. Two. I have here a reminder of parliamentary legislation. The rapporteur has read the resolution of his committee in full, but there is a call for the Minister. The Chamber of Deputies cannot vote on this. It might be appropriate to specify that we will only vote on the fact that you acknowledge - if you are interested then. I will then ask you in a detailed debate to repeat this. I ask Mr Schwarzenberg whether he is interested in technical or proper. Technical. Yes, in that case, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u8	It is noteworthy and interesting, honourable Members, Mr President, that, when the item is discussed, the grant programmes in agriculture for 2017 have been thinned by a number of ANO Members. Whoever has, has, doesn't have to discuss it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u9	Thank you for keeping time. Now with priority rights, Mr. Chairman... He doesn't want priority rights, so I'm writing you down without priority rights. [[Messenger. A blacksmith.]] I still have a point of fact here - Mr Kubíček, is that a fact? [[He doesn't want to get out.]] That was probably a typo, so I'm erasing. In that case, it is Mr Bendl's turn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u10	Good day, dear colleagues and colleagues. Minister, allow me to say a few words about this material. If we are discussing grant programmes in agriculture for 2017, we cannot take this a bit in the context of the overall budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture. I just remind you that the expenditure of the Ministry of Agriculture chapter is falling compared to last year. And from the grant titles, you can see what the Ministry of Agriculture's priority is. In fact, in the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, expenditure on water management - 800 million CZK - decreased expenditure on the economy from 1.3 billion CZK compared to last year. At 0.5 billion. Crowns. On water retention in the landscape, which we have often talked about here and on the agricultural committee as well, and everyone has said how it is for them... Mr President, would you mind telling the chairman of the agricultural committee here... It's really canceling! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u11	It wasn't necessary to tell him, he understood soon. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u12	It's not pleasant. Thank you for understanding. In the state budget, CZK 100 million is earmarked for water retention in the landscape. Measure CZK 111 million for counseling. What's more important to the Minister of Agriculture? Water retention in the landscape or counseling? 111 - 100. I think it's clear what a priority is. We will advise everyone, but we will do nothing, because for CZK 100 million, there is no significant area of support for water retention in the landscape, which, at least if the words that have fallen here in the past apply, you are convinced that they should be supported, so here you can clearly see that they are not. Water expenditure is falling overall, while there are priorities that are different. I note that there are other expenses already as if to other resorts - to support the disabled, and I do not question their size, where there is CZK 17 million from the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture chapter, to support education 50 million CZK, to food banks CZK 30 million. Let's just say that this is a humanitarian agricultural matter, but the rules on how the funds are eventually divided and how purchases are made would really interest me, and I will certainly ask the Minister about them in the future, because I think it's just a time bomb. In the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture, support for non-profit organizations is CZK 140 million. Here in the 2017 agricultural subsidy programme, there are another 2.8 billion. Crowns. And the Minister is right about one thing, yes, there are a number of programs that have been set up in the past, and it is good that they are there, and it is good that there are funds for them to be fair: support for beekeeping, support for drip irrigation, support for the restructuring of fruit orchards, improve the genetic potential of listed livestock, purchase of breeding animals. I think that there are all areas where it is right that the Ministry of Agriculture has supported them and continues to support them. The disease fund is absolutely certain, although I believe that we should talk about the effectiveness of the disease fund, because the production of pork in the Czech Republic is simply not able to increase, and it certainly has already spilled billions of crowns into the disease fund, and it is a question of how much it is therefore an effective expenditure or not. Consultancy and education - just CZK 111 million for me - is a huge increase, and it also looks like we are joining the EU, 20 million crowns, if you take the view that we are still supporting the European integration of NGOs. Support - I am stressing this - European integration of NGOs CZK 20 million, expenditure this year. And I would stress whether you have it in the context of what I said before, water retention in the landscape of 100 million crowns. I'm sorry, Minister, but they don't play at all, virtually. I guess they fit your priorities, but they're definitely not our priorities. Support for activities of food banks and other humanitarian actors. I have already said 30 million crowns and there is support of 20 million crowns for the acquisition of long-term tangible assets. I'd like to know what to imagine under it, because it's probably not grocery shopping. Purchase of tangible assets for CZK 20 million this year. So what do you want to buy? Or what do you want to spend money on the purchase of material assets - 20 million? Ten million is a subsidy for the economic result. I assume that the nonprofits you want to give the funds to will somehow account for them in terms of operation, etc., but for what, 20 million? I'd like to know if the Minister of Agriculture can answer my question. You know, that's not what we say, and then when we look at the numbers, it's obvious we're doing something else! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u13	I thank Mr Bendl, who has been the last to be entered in the general debate so far. Sorry, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Kováčik. [[Messenger. No prior rights.]] Not with priority rights. Just like that. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u14	Thank you for the floor. Not with priority rights, but in proper order, so I'm the last logged in yet, even though I'm not written on the board. I would just like to respond very briefly, first of all, to convey the opinion of the KSČM MEP and also to respond to some of the things that have been raised here in the debate. First of all, and I will not repeat what was said here that Czech, Moravian and Silesian agriculture in the context of European agriculture cannot be without subsidies, and the talk that subsidies are evil and that subsidies are harmful is merely academic, because I can imagine the Czech Republic abolishing agricultural subsidies. If all the other advanced, at least agri-food-developed economies and all the other economies that subsidize agriculture and food industry do so, then I can do it quite well and lively, and together with almost all of you, who have a slightly preserved at least objective view of agriculture, rural and food industry, imagine that the Czech Republic, along with the Slovak, Polish, Hungarian and Saxon agriculture, would be the leader of world agriculture, it would be the most efficient agricultural economy around the world, because it is historically given here that medium-sized and larger businesses here have the upper hand. It's not something we make up. This is even despite what has been happening since the coup, despite the pressure that was to break down agricultural production, business in larger and large volumes has remained here. We have the largest average farm area within the European Union. And that is precisely for these historical reasons, because the enterprises, the larger economy within individual enterprises, have remained economically competitive. And the pressure to reduce, cropping, capping, how you project it, i.e. to limit subsidies, there were always, more or less, doing well. And just because Polish, Hungarian, Slovak, Slovak, Czech and Saxon agriculture from the nature of history has a larger area of farms, by the way, Germany was opposed to the reduction of the amount of subsidies according to the size of the farm. It's nothing about Agrofert and related companies. And the other medium-sized and larger companies that are in this market are not responsible for Agrofert being here. But so let us take it from the point of view that I personally think along with some others that if the Czech, Moravian and Silesian agriculture and food industry is to maintain competitiveness not only in terms of production, we want to, after all, and after all, we have said it to each other here at last, it has ceased to be a nasty word recently, we want to increase self-sufficiency, we want to increase food security, we want to remain competitive in the quality of food so that, among other things, the extra-production functions of agriculture, such as landscape creation, recreational functions, etc., etc., the function of the donor of jobs in the countryside, and not only in the countryside, but also those linked jobs that are in the economy before primary production, as well as suppliers, customers, processors and traders, have remained. I am talking about the fact that it is simply the comment that has been made here with my colleague Pavera that he is sorry that he is failing to limit himself, and I am freely translating, forgive me if so, to limit the subsidy of the large ones, only to remind my colleague Karel Schwarzenberg here about the lack of members of the ANO movement. Members are missing here, except for the KSČM club of almost everyone, and I see Dawn, almost all clubs. ODS is quite represented here, too, yes. So it was a comment, I'm just taking it as a joke. That's the first thing. Second thing. The KSČM supports precisely those reasons that have been said here, subsidising agriculture, maintaining and improving the competitiveness of farms and food businesses in Bohemia, Moravia and Silesia. We have others, and we have presented it to the committee, other comments. But this was promised that it would be gradually adjusted, and this is a question of, for example, fulfilling the subsidy conditions. As a condition for granting this subsidy, we do not only see that they meet the conditions that are written, the entity asking for it to be clear will meet the conditions that are written in the call or in the conditions of the subsidy title, but that, for example, in some time into the past, agricultural and food inspection has not been sanctioned, virtually. maybe even in some cases repeatedly investigated for violating any other rules, so that it does not happen that the processing undertaking receives a subsidy to improve the quality of its products or to do some activities of this type, while being repeatedly fined or investigated for overreacting, please consider it just as a theoretical example that it pours water or some other crap into wine. This is something that, of course, according to our court, must be taken into account, because then we, as Members of the Agricultural Committee, or as officials and officials of the Ministry or, for example, the Agricultural Intervention Fund, are to be considered crazy that, with one hand, we are to bet fines and, with the other hand, supply money to those entities. That's the thing that's promised to be dealt with. And as members of the agricultural committee, I think we should take special care of that. I am telling the Chamber of Deputies that the KSČM parliamentary club will support the agricultural subsidy programmes for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u15	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Minister is claiming his word. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u16	Thank you. Excuse me, I would respond to all three previous speakers. I'll start with Mr. Pavera. I'm going to do a little recapitulation because I repeated it several times when it sounds that our Ministry of Agriculture policy supports large businesses. Let me sum up some concrete facts that this is not the case. As part of the first pillar, this said here, a business over 150,000 hectares has reduced 5% of the direct payments it receives to the area. This is the first, let's say, disability to which we put large businesses at a disadvantage. Within the second pillar, some might seem to be five percent low, but within the second pillar there is already quite significant degressivity and significant reduction, when payments within the LFA, this means payments for mountain and sub-mountain areas, which is 51 percent of the Czech Republic's territory today, so for these companies the reduction is set from 350 hectares, it is gradually reduced up to 30 percent. It's already a very significant reduction. I would also remind you that under the first pillar, farmers under 40 years of age are favoured by having a higher payment of approximately CZK 900 per hectare for the first 90 hectares. So here for part of the young farmers on the first hectares, the payment is granted. Furthermore, when we were supporting livestock production last year, we favoured farmers to 50 cows, and if I'm not mistaken, to 10 sows, who had a higher rate from the Ministry of Agriculture, which is another rather significant form of support for small farmers. I would also like to mention when I looked at the comparison of how much the TOP 09, ODS and Public Affairs government were at that time, of which six years were ODS ministers, so small farmers paid only CZK 232 million for projects up to CZK 1 million under the Rural Development Programme. Over two years of the new operational period under this government, small farmers paid more than one billion for small projects, 1 012 million exactly. To be correct, it is not yet paid, but this amount is either paid in part or is already under contracts and will be paid in the coming months. So, please, seven years from now, 232 million, two years from now, it's over a billion. And I would also like to underline the new PGRLF programme, which was launched last year, with credits supported by the de minimis scheme, where the amount for small projects is about 600 million. Crowns. So it needs to be said for correctness how these things are balanced here. [[12.20 hours]] Furthermore, I would like to underline that small farmers now in the third round of the Rural Development Programme, where they applied for subsidies for investments in their primary production, and those who applied for livestock production, were satisfied by 100%. Those who requested plant production from 82 percent. And farmers, that is. medium and larger entities, which mostly requested over five million, were satisfied with 55 percent. So please, let's not demagogize, but let's be aware of the reality of these numbers. So much to discuss against big or small and support, whether it is set here fairly or not, it is necessary to sum up all these things here. Mr Bendl spoke about water management and that we do not support them enough, etc. But he forgot one thing. Support for water management, retention in landscapes, ponds, etc., is also supported from the Rural Development Programme by more than one billion crowns a year, through among others. Land adjustments as well as from the Fishermen's Operational Programme, which has an allocation of over one billion, and we pay about 250 miles a year. CZK again for construction e.g. new ponds. The chapter for irrigation equipment is set in such a way that in every year in my work, we always satisfy the cases of increasing this chapter by all farmers. So it's really our priority, it's just that it's forgotten that it's not just financed from national sources, but from these two operational programs. Speaking of other areas, I mentioned in my introductory text that the law clearly states that it is not only support for agricultural primary production, but it is also support for rural areas and non-production areas within agriculture. And today, when we talk, for example. on the phenomenon of food waste, where 30% of the entire production, sales and consumption process is wasted on food, so after 23 years we came up with the idea that it would be good for the Czech Republic to have some structure of food banks, so that those food banks could develop with some logistical background, not only on paper as legal persons, so that they could have warehouses, so that they could have cooling, so that they could have handling facilities, so that they could have people who would do the manipulation. So that's why this grant title. And I highly recommend that you visit a food bank, Mr. Ambassador, which you have in your Central Bohemia Region, to tell you directly how and why this is important to them. So this support, which is set aside there, is also for those investments in equipment, shelves, cooling equipment, etc. A bit of ridiculous support for non-governmental non-profit organisations in the area of European integration has been mentioned here. I'd like to explain to everyone why this support is included here. Now it is a crucial period, we may not realize it, but this year is a crucial period for how individual ministries and the Czech Republic can generally defend their interests in negotiating new operational programmes for the post 2020 period. And we encourage that our interests be shared. they could also defend non-governmental non-profit organizations from the Czech Republic. Since they also have their structures within the Brussels administration, they can be of considerable help. That's why this support is here. It's not throwing money out the window, but it's a really meaningful thing. In the account of what Mr KSČM President Pavel Kováčik said, I just want to say that the complexity and increase of administration, so of course we are aware that this is something that does not please farmers today or please us, and we have ambitions and we are trying to make some adjustments to European legislation and to simplify them now after 2018. But it must also be said that, for example, the small farmers in small projects are in a position to come today, they do not have to write the project themselves at all, they will point to the professional consultant who will write it to them, and we will pay them the cost of project preparation within the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. That's an advantage for small farmers. Of course, the administration is not an entirely simple matter, it is public money, taxpayers' money and it must also be ensured that they are controlled. Thank you for your attention and for supporting this material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u17	Thank you, Minister. And now I have three factual points. First of all, Mr Petr Bendl, after him Mr Stanjura, Mrs Pěnčíková. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u18	Thank you for your public support for the food banks, I'm sure I'll ask that question, and I'm not gonna take advantage of this moment for that. But what I must remind you of, and Minister, you should know: the funds drawn in 2013 and 2012 and 2011 until 2007 were agreed back when? In 2012? Or 2013? In 2005, Minister, and you must know that you are operating here and boasting about something that is not to boast. That's what your predecessors arranged. If you're here now saying that three years before negotiating the terms of the new financial period, you already need it terribly, because it's agreed, then at the moment when you're already pumping something in 2015, 2016, you just... and you admit yourself that you're not pumping it completely, so your predecessors simply arranged it. So you're bragging about other people's feathers. However, when you look at the average value of individual projects, you will understand that it helps the larger ones. It's obvious. And even the big support that's being proposed here, the little ones just can't reach it. And it's a huge burden for those high school kids. It's not like someone's gonna process it at the Ministry or at his organizations, but they have to process the application themselves first, and they don't have the people to control it at all. That's just the way it is. I don't know how much time I have. And what fell here before that. After all, nobody says it goes without subsidies when the subsidies are in Poland, in the west, in the north, in the south and in the east. It's just obvious to all of us. But the efficiency of the resources spent and the chance to get at them, they're just clearly decreasing for the small and medium ones. And all you have to do is listen to them, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u19	Thank you. President Stanjura with a point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u20	Thank you for the floor. I just want to get my lines straight. The Minister of Agriculture says that new operational programmes are being negotiated at the moment. I would like to know which new operational programs are being negotiated, how many are being negotiated, who is negotiating there. Then he told us such a touching sentence: I can't arrange it in Brussels, so I have to support nonprofits, I give them subsidies to negotiate it for us. I would like to know who is working in favour of the new operational programmes from nonprofits, with what assignment, whether they have a consecration from the government, whether they are promoting a government position there, or whether they are lobbyist structures. And now that I say lobbyist structures, I don't mean pejorative. I don't mean that pejoratively. Since different employers' or professional associations certainly have interests, they are logically called lobbyist interests. And it's not really the pejorative and negative. But if the government minister here says, I give money to nonprofits to negotiate for us or next to us, then I want to know how many, who, what terms they negotiate, what interests they defend, who controls, who gives them the assignment. That's pretty simple. And if I get satisfactory answers, then we can say yes, that's right, even these organizations and these particular people help defend national interests, help defend the position of the Czech government, and then it's okay. But if they defend their own interests there and not the interests of the Czech government or the Czech state while receiving money from the state budget, it is no longer good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. With Mrs Pěnčíková's factual remark, with priority rights, the Minister, followed by a duly registered Member, Herbert Pavera. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u22	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Of course, our MP will support the subsidy programmes. Our chairman has already mentioned this. I don't have a problem with it, and I'm really gonna raise my hand for them. Anyway, I'd like to draw the Minister's attention, and it's done here, too, and the administration involved in handling these subsidies is really huge, and you've really driven the smallest farmers to the fact that they don't even apply anymore, because then they come back during the checks and they have to return the subsidies. The agencies that helped with this were canceled. Now they have no one to turn to, they really can't handle it. And in our country, Moravia, you're from the neighboring region, so you must know, they've reached the stage that they don't even want to draw SAPS, because it's just not worth it. And now I have dealt with several farmers - and compare the employees of SZIF, because it is not possible for them to be informed now, in February 2017, after the check carried out three years ago, that they must repay subsidies from 2010, 2011, 2012 and 2013. This really isn't the support of small farmers!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u23	With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u24	Thank you. It has been said repeatedly that small farmers do not ask. I would like to say that in the third round, which was announced last September, we also have 3,000 applications for the third round of the Rural Development Programme, especially from small farmers. First of all. And Mr Bendl may not have understood that - through the President, I repeat again - a small farmer does not have to write the project at all. He asks a professional advisor or agency and he says, "I want a new dairy manure shovel here," and they write him the project and we pay for the cost of the project. And that also reflects the fact that we have increased the 3,000 applications in this third round. That's ad one. The second thing you said is that it's obvious who's pumping first. So I have statistics, please nicely, Mr Bendle, through Mr President. Between 2007 and 2013 in projects up to 1 million The koruna paid 2 %. In projects up to 5 miles. koruna 27 % and over 5 million. The crown was 71 percent, please nicely. For six years, the ODS ministers were there. Third round of the Rural Development Programme - 23 % of projects up to 1 million. CZK, 23 % of projects up to 5 million. CZK and 53 % of projects over 5 million. Crowns. Oh, please, that's the numbers language. It's not a hunch. I'd be happy to send those labs to your MP's club. I am going to publish this next week on social networks, so that these arguments will be clearly substantiated once and for all as this situation has been. If we're talking about what's being negotiated here... Respectfully, I'll get back to that. Mr Bendl washed his hands and said there was nothing he could do about it, because the terms were negotiated in 2005. You're wrong. Legislative conditions are negotiated, envelopes are negotiated but set at Member State level. And the point criteria are set by the monitoring committee and signed by the Minister of Agriculture, who can change them before any round. Before each round you could make a significant change and say who you really want to support. You supported small farmers with two percent of the total allocation. That's just a fact. And you had that responsibility, and you could have done something about it, and you didn't do anything about it. Then I'd mention even further here... It was mentioned here, and Mr Stanjura, President Stanjura, logically asked what is being negotiated, etc. I was talking about the fact that there has now been an intense debate at the level of all the EU institutions in Brussels on the form of European funds and the common agricultural policy after 2020. This year is absolutely crucial for how legislation will start to be discussed next year in order to set up these cohesion funds or the common agricultural policy. And we are starting to have a debate today and we are having a discussion with the agricultural public, NGOs about what the priorities of the Czech Republic are and what we want to defend. We want this position done by the end of the semester. I'm going to want to discuss it with the government, of course. And those NGOs also have their European headquarters where our governments are involved, and they, if they can send their people, are also able to defend their interests. It's what small and medium and large NGOs do. The support from this grant title is precisely intended for them to cover the financial costs of these people. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u25	Thank you, Minister. Mr Petr Bendl and his point of order. After that, with a factual remark, President Stanjura. It is followed by a duly registered Member, Mr Pavera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u26	Thank you for the floor. Minister, if you were going to the EU Agriculture Ministers' meeting on a regular basis, you would know that these conditions can't be changed very much. First of all. And two. The Minister of Agriculture Bendl made regular round tables with individual agricultural organisations, and he always suffocated his position and agreed with them on some compromise and drove to the meeting of ministers. Unlike you, who do not consult with them in the sense that you always have a compromise with which everyone would agree. And you must know that those basic parameters that are agreed before the financial period can no longer be changed during the financial period, especially at the end of the financial period. It's just not possible. That's where you're doing everything you can to finance. And the Ministry of Agriculture in the past, and you know it well, was one of the best, I will say, drawing, if you will, such a European subsidy as a whole in the Czech Republic. So please, at least don't confuse the public here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u27	Thank you. President Stanjura and his point of order. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u28	He's not gonna give it to me at first. These are hands, not hands. We wash our hands, not our hands. About what you offered. I'd like you to send us the statistics. And I would ask that there be still... Over 5 miles. He's too rude. You said category one, five. I'd like another ten, twenty and over 20. 'Cause I think it's over five miles. it could also be 200 or 5.1. So it would be good to split up your categories, if possible. I assume you have the numbers. There'll be two more columns, I'm sure. I'm sure you could also add a list to that, let's say the first twenty biggest beneficiaries, so we know. And since you haven't answered my second question, I'm going to ask you this way from the microphone to answer me in writing about who goes there from those NGOs. Whether he defends the position of the Czech government or not. If you don't, I'm gonna have to write a written interview. But I mean, when I put it that way on the microphone, we don't have to keep doing the paperwork anymore. At this point, I can't tell whether it's right or wrong. If I don't have the information, I really can't say it qualifiedly, it's good, it's wrong. I'm interested. If I get that information, maybe the next time I say, yes, that's right, maybe we'll make it stronger, the money or not. But one last thing. That's why I asked. I'm surprised. New operational programs. This is not a common agricultural policy. [[Objection off the microphone.]] No, you were talking about new operating programs, look at the screen records. That's why I wanted to ask what operational programs. I don't think there will be any. That's why I asked you to clear up the terms, because then we're talking about something else, and then the debate can't have any result, no match when we're talking about something else. I don't think it would be entirely out of the question if there were new operational programs, but, actually, they're most likely not. And if you're saying that this year is a key year for us to negotiate good terms, then try talking to the opposition. The election's in eight months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u29	Thank you. Mr Herbert Pavera, duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u30	Thank you again. Have a nice afternoon. Since the Minister has reacted in some way, I would like to comment on some of the things that were there. Of course, you'll remember when we had the funding of the Ministry of Agriculture programs here, so I was talking about politics being a game of numbers, and it depends on how the numbers go to the public. Yes, in agriculture, more money goes into grant programs than in 2013, really. But there's a percentage of less money coming from the budget to agriculture than it did in 2013. So that's a little bit of a follow-up, too. At that time, the economic crisis was 2010, 2012 etc. The economy is growing today. Money can go, we can support the agricultural and food industries. Let me just say this briefly in an example. In 2013, investment in agriculture went to 11 billion. In 2017, it's less than eight. So much for the numbers. There was also mention of grant programs in 2007, 2013. But the subsidy programs were not prepared by the right-wing government, they were prepared before 2007, as Mr Bendl said. And there was another government in power - social democracy. So just to remind you that certain things had already been prepared there, the grant titles had to be as they were arranged. Another mention - about cutting five percent as a handicap. Yes, it's a handicap. But it is a minimum obligation from the EU regulation because the EU requires it to be reduced. And the fact that we only gave it five percent is, of course, our decision. We could've given it ten. We could've given him 15. But I understand, I understand, we have other businesses, other companies. It would have to be a little different from Austria than Germany, because there are too many small ones up to 100 hectares. In our country, larger farms are thanks to how agricultural cooperatives worked here in the 1970s and 1980s, so the conditions can always be adjusted differently. [[12.40 hours]] Unfortunately, as far as the reduction of subsidies is concerned, small farmers are also involved. I'm sure you know that, those little farmers often complain about you. They don't even know why they've cut short because the conditions of grant titles are sometimes so complicated that even SZIF workers can't control them and complain that ministerial officials invent conditions that are completely complex and unrealistic. I know you promised on the agricultural committee that you would take a look at this with Mr. Director SZIF, that you would simplify these terms. Subsidy through small farmers' agencies. I think it's a shame. If the grant terms were simple and they were on one paper, so that the man on some tractor or loader could fill it out himself, he'd write in some boxes what he wants, how much he wants to buy it for, etc. and it's a perfectly simple solution, it doesn't need any agency. There's no need for the Ministry to pay a lot of money for the agencies. Simplify the conditions, and farmers will certainly make even more use of grant titles. I'll get back to the little processors. We're all still moaning about the fact that life is disappearing from the countryside. If we do not support the rural business and support life there, the villages will end up in Portugal, Spain and Italy today, that there will be old houses without people. We really need to think. One way to develop municipalities and cities in peripheral regions is to ask them how to help them, simplify the conditions and support food processing directly in those locations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u31	Thank you, Mr Paver. This has been the last entry into the general debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, given that Parliament's agricultural committee has adopted its resolution on agricultural subsidy programmes for 2017, in which the Chamber of Deputies recommends that the 978 press be approved, I will make a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u33	I'm sorry. It should be presented in a detailed debate that I have not yet opened. If you conclude your final word with this, I am opening up a detailed debate, and please present this motion for a resolution in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u34	Thank you, too. The resolution of the Chamber of Deputies reads: The grant programmes for agriculture for 2017 provided under Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997 Coll., on Agriculture, as amended. The Chamber of Deputies approves the grant programmes for agriculture for 2017 provided under Sections 1, 2 and 2d of Act No. 252/1997, Coll., on Agriculture, as amended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-007-270.u35	I thank the rapporteur for presenting the motion for a resolution. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If there is no such person, I will end the debate in detail. I am asking the Minister's final words, or the rapporteur's. Not interested. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as presented in the detailed debate by the rapporteur. I'm calling our colleagues from the lobby, I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur, Mr Ladislav Velebný, presented. I am opening the vote on the motion for a resolution. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 133 vote, 99 Members and Members registered, for 76, against 2. The motion for a resolution has been adopted. I note that the resolution has been adopted. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is the item
