ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u1	1. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 /German press 2/ - first reading First, I will ask the Minister of Finance, Ivan Pilný, to take his place at the rapporteur's table, and I note that President of the Chamber of Deputies, by his decision number 2, ordered the draft law to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgets submitted a resolution delivered as House press number 2/1. I therefore ask that Mrs Miloslava Vostrá take her place as rapporteur at the rapporteur's table. And now, Minister, I will ask you to take the floor. Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný. Minister, please. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government, as Minister of Finance, I present to you the draft state budget for 2018. By the time I get to the detailed numbers of the state budget, I'd say it's characterised by two situations that aren't quite standard. The first is that the Chamber of Deputies has very little time to discuss this budget. This is mainly due to the fact that there were early elections, and this actually moved the whole schedule forward. That's the first thing. The second thing that is not standard is that I, as the Minister of Finance, will start discussing the state budget in the House, and if the timetable that has been expressed by the President in the media is followed by a follower or a follower. I'm gonna run some numbers on the state budget now. My contribution will be somewhat longer, because we are still discussing things that are in order over a trillion Czech crowns and concern all citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u3	Minister, I understand you well and ask the House for peace! We are discussing a fundamental law for 2018 and please pay attention to it. Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I will also present a number of numbers, which will, of course, answer a number of questions that have already been raised at press conferences and in the media. Therefore, the basic State Budget Framework for 2017 approved by the Government on 25 September 2017 and discussed by the Budget Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on 30 November 2017. The basic data submitted by the draft State Budget Act for 2018 are presented in this form. Revenue from the State Budget 1 beat. 314.5 billion. State Budget expenditure 1 beat. 364.5 billion. So the balance of the state budget is 50 billion. minus, it's 10 billion less than the approved budget for 2017. The macroeconomic framework for the draft State budget for 2018 has been drawn up on the basis of data and information known since the beginning of September of this year. The Czech economy is in excellent shape. Its performance continued in steep growth during the first half of this year, mainly due to household consumption and foreign trade. Further maintenance and growth intensity will depend on both internal and external factors. In the domestic field, this means adequate economic policies that respect the position of the economy in the economic cycle. The level of our economy depends mainly on the stability and economic development of trading partners. Economic developments in the euro area remain slow. There is considerable differentiation in developments in individual countries, but growth rates should be brought closer in the macroeconomic framework horizon. The risk to the performance of the European economy is the setting up of trade links after the departure of the United Kingdom with the European Union. The growth of the Czech economy in 2017 reflects high labour use, low commodity prices, turnover in total investment activity and economic recovery abroad. Real GDP growth should also slightly exceed 4%. Domestic demand should be the main driver, but the external trade balance should also contribute positively to growth. For 2018, we expect continued growth in consumption and investment. The real GDP pace should slow down just above 3%. In both years, the economy should be clearly above its potential product. Inflation in 2017 and 2018 should remain slightly above the Czech National Bank's target, but still within the tolerance band. In 2017, one-off increases in food prices affect inflation. In both 2017 and 2018, the labour market imbalances that lead to significant wage acceleration and the growing demand for positive production gaps in the environment should act pro-inflationaryly. A slightly anti-inflationary factor is the assumed appreciation of the exchange rate. Administrative measures should have little effect on inflation over the overall horizon of the framework. The average growth in the consumer price index should thus be over 2% in both years. In the context of economic growth, we expect an increase of 1,5 % in employment in 2017, with a clear labour shortage already being observed. As a result, employment growth should slow significantly in 2018. On the annual average, the unemployment rate should reach 3% in 2017 and fall further to 2.8% in 2018, which is already one of the lowest values in the international context. A slower improvement in the labour market in 2018 is linked to the position of the economy in the economic cycle and to the growing qualification and regional mismatch between supply and demand for work, which can be documented by a record number of job vacancies. The development of the current balance of payments account for the Czech economy poses no risks. Here we expect growth of both export markets and export performance. For this reason, we present a surplus current account balance in 2018 and 2018. The Ministry of Finance continuously monitors the forecasts and opinions of institutions mostly of the private sphere and of international institutions dealing with macroeconomic analysis and forecasting. On the basis of the comparison with these independent forecasts, it can be concluded that the macroeconomic framework of the draft State budget for 2018 is very close to the consensus macroeconomic forecasts based on the opinion of these institutions. In the context of Directive 2011/85 EU on budgetary documentation requirements, the macroeconomic framework for the draft State budget for 2018 has been evaluated by independent macroeconomic experts. On a conservative - realistic - scale, the overall assessment was realistic. The fiscal position of the Czech Republic has been particularly favourable in recent years, as has been demonstrated by the evaluation of multinational institutions or credit rating agencies. In 2016, for the first time in the history of the Czech Republic, a surplus of the entire general government sector was achieved. The current forecast of the general government sector's management this year and next year suggests that this was not an exception, and the Czech public finances should remain in surplus for predicted macroeconomic developments. In 2018, the balance of the general government sector of 1,3% of GDP is forecast at the structural balance level of 0,4 % of GDP. In the years to come, we expect a continuation of positive economic developments up to 1.7 percent of GDP in 2010. We also estimate improvements for the structural balance, namely 0.8% of GDP in 2020. At the beginning of this year, Act No. 23/2017 on the rules of budgetary responsibility was approved, which changed the procedure for establishing the expenditure frameworks of the state budget and the budget of the state funds. Derivation is based on the concept of a net balance on the effect of the business cycle and one-off measures and so-called. the medium-term budgetary objective. The medium-term budgetary objective should provide long-term sustainable public finances while allowing automatic stabilisers to operate in the event of economic fluctuations. The draft revenue and expenditure of the State budget and state funds for 2018 shows that the consolidated expenditure for the State budget and the State Fund is 1bill. 397 billion. CZK and comply with the approved budget strategy of the public institutions sector for the years 20198 to 2020 under the Act on the rules of budgetary responsibility and under the Act on budgetary rules. I would now like to introduce you in more detail to some of the titles of the revenue pages of the state budget in the proposal for 2018. The revenue from taxes and charges is estimated at 722,3 billion. Tax revenue for 2018 is increasing by 57.3 billion compared to the 2017 budget. The simple tax quota, which covers only the tax revenues of public budgets, amounts to 19,6 %. The combined tax quota amounts to 33,4 GDP and increased by 0.4 percentage points year on year. Revenue from social security contributions and social employment policy contributions is budgeted at 496.9 billion. and represent a year-on-year increase of 49.1 billion against approved collections this year, which is 11 percent. Revenue from the budget of the European Union and the financial mechanisms shall be included in the budget in the amount of 71.2 billion. Crowns. This is in particular revenue from the Structural Funds of the European Union and the Cohesion Fund for the implementation of the joint programmes of the European Union and the Czech Republic, and revenue for the implementation of the measures under the common agricultural policy. Compared to this year, there was a decline of 26.8 billion. due to low drawdown and to the state of the entitlements of unused expenditure for each chapter. The total expenditure for 2018 is designed to amount to 1 bill. 364.5 billion. On the expenditure side of the budget is one of the most important expenditures monitored by the state budget. For 2018, they are budgeted at 756.5 billion. and account for 55,4 per cent of the total expenditure of the State budget. Among the most important mandatorial expenditures are social mandatorial expenditures, whose limits are as follows. Expenditure on pensions shall be budgeted at the rate of 434.4 billion. Crowns. The pensions will be revised by 4 % on 1 January 2018, which in absolute terms represents an increase of an average old-age pension of 475 CZK per month. [[14.20 hours]] An amended valuation scheme was used to increase the average old-age pension. This means that 100 percent of the total consumer price index growth was used and one half of the real wage growth was taken into account. Expenditure on sickness insurance benefits will continue to grow in the context of wage growth derived from them. For 2017, expenditures are expected to be 28.9 billion. CZK and CZK 32.7 billion are proposed for 2018. Crowns. The increase in expenditure is due to autonomous development and adjustments in the calculation of existing benefits. A total amount of 44.8 billion is foreseen for welfare benefits and foster care in 2018. The koruna, which is 6.1 billion. more than the expected reality of 2017. The increase in the expenditure of these benefits is a long time ago an increase in the child allowance of CZK 300, an extension of the range of its beneficiaries, an increase in parental allowance for the birth of multiples and so on. Expenditure on housing allowances is also constantly increasing. The estimated expenditure on the payment of public health insurance premiums from the State budget for the persons for whom the payer is a State shall be 69,8 billion. for 2018. The expenditure is supported by an increase in the monthly assessment base from CZK 6 814 to CZK 7 177 from 1 January 2018. Expenditure on the care allowance shall be budgeted at the rate of 26 billion. and have been validated by 10 per cent. The expenditure of the state budget also includes expenditure on subsidies for social services, which the State contributes to the operation of social services facilities. This is a non-interest expenditure. For 2018, an amount of 11.6 billion is proposed for social services subsidies. Crowns. I would now like to mention some other major areas of the state budget. It's a pay-per-view area. Expenditure on salaries and other payments for the work carried out by budgeted bodies of the State and the contribution organisations shall be budgeted in the amount of 186,4 billion for 2018. CZK without accessories, which represents an increase of 24.4 billion. Against 2017. Including accessories, the total cost of salaries is 254,4 billion. Crowns. This increase in expenditure includes in particular the impact of valorisation of scales of service tariffs for security forces members, police officers, firefighters, Prison Service, Customs Administration, General Inspection of Security Corps by 10 per cent with effect from 1. 7. 2017 with an impact of 2,14 billion. CZK for 2018. The impact of improving the level of remuneration in particular of non-teaching workers in regional education, employees in contribution organisations or employees in social services with effect from 1. 7. 2017 following adjustments in the tariff scale system with an impact of 1.54 billion. CZK for 2018. Impact of valuation of scales of service tariffs for professional soldiers by 7 per cent with effect from 1. 7. 2017 and with an impact of 0.65 billion. CZK for 2018. Impact of further valorisation of all civil servants' salary and service charges, including those whose salaries have increased since 1. 7. 2017 except public sector educators by 10 % and teachers by 15 % from 1 November 2017 with an impact of 16,7 billion. for 2018. The increase in the salaries of judges and prosecutors, with an increase in the salary base of 4,6 %. The increase in salaries of other constitutional agents, with an increase in the salary base of 6,8%. The number of operational posts in 2018 will increase by 8 503, of which 2 166 is included in the organizational units of the state, 6 338 in state contribution organizations. This year's increase is mainly due to the increase, 6 012 places in regional education, 520 seats in the chapter of the Ministry of Justice, of which 158 seats of civil servants, tutors and 189 seats of security officers at the Prison Service of the Czech Republic in connection with the expansion of the capacity of existing prisons as well as the opening of new and 173 civil servants of the courts - judges. In the chapter of the Ministry of Interior, 351 seats of members of the Police of the Czech Republic are on the security of the country's internal security, especially in the areas of air traffic, the misuse of unmanned machines - drones, cyber attacks, etc., or 66 seats of members of the Fire Rescue Corps in connection with the establishment of new fire protection stations. 142 places to secure the agenda of the Czech Social Security Administration in the field of paternity leave, long-term infirmary, namely doctors medical assessment services. Expenditure on research, development and innovation is included in the total amount of 41.4 billion. CZK including EU funds. The share of these GDP expenditure for 2018 will reach 0,8 percent. These expenditures will increase by 1.3 billion year on year, of which the part financed from national resources increases by 2.9 billion compared to 2017. Export support expenditure is budgeted for a total of 3.95 billion. CZK for Czech Export Bank and EGAP. The state budget's capital expenditure for 2018 amounts to 89.8 billion. and compared to 2017 there is a decrease of 14.1 billion. CZK, in particular for capital expenditure covered by revenue from the European Union. For national capital expenditure, on the contrary, a year-on-year increase of 5.2 billion is recorded - and please note this as well - year-on-year increase. Area of education and sport. Education support expenditure is one of the government's priorities and therefore the expenditure of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports has been reinforced by 19.2 billion compared to this year, this is by 12.3 % when counting expenditure covered by income from foreign sources. The total expenditure of this chapter is thus 175,7 billion. Crowns. The budget of the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports for 2018 is increased by 3 billion, earmarked for higher education. Given the possibilities of the state budget, this is the maximum possible increase, which the government shows is one of its priorities for promoting education at all levels. Regional education expenditure is increased by 16.9 billion. The amount is 12.3 billion. is intended to increase the tariff salaries of teachers by 15 per cent and non-teachers by 10 per cent. The impact of the increase in pay rates in private and ecclesiastical education corresponds to an increase in the chapter by 0.5 billion. Following expectations of an increase in the number of children and pupils, the regional education budget was increased by 1.3 billion. An increase of 1.1 billion is intended to provide support measures for the joint education system. Field of culture. To finance the National Cultural Treasure Care Programme, the budget is 0.5 billion. The amount of CZK 800 million is spent on film incentives. Budget-enhanced investments in contributory organizations and the field of live art, support for professional theatres, symphonic orchestras and choirs and cultural activities were strengthened. The budget includes expenses under the property settlement law with churches and religious societies, namely a contribution to support the activities of churches amounting to 1.2 billion. and a financial compensation of less than 2.1 billion. The area of transport. Total expenditure of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure is budgeted at 69,4 billion. Crowns. The state budget subsidy amounts to 40.9 billion. for 2018, including European Union funds. Expenditure on public service losses in public rail and passenger transport is budgeted at 7.4 billion, in 2017, including for the regions and the capital of Prague 2.8 billion. Expenditure on ESA space projects is budgeted at 0.9 billion. Crowns. Defense and security. The expenditure of the Ministry of Defence chapter was increased by 6.4 billion. for a total amount of 58.9 billion. for 2018. The share of these GDP expenditure should reach 1,1 % in 2018. Capital expenditure in the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior and Security Information Services on security measures in the Czech Republic have been reinforced. Industry. The subsidies for renewable energy sources for 2018 are budgeted at 26,2 billion, which is 1.1 billion. more than in 2017. [[14.30 hours]] Agriculture. Expenditure on the common agricultural policy is proposed for 2018 in the amount of 32.1 billion, with the largest item constituting direct payments of 23.2 billion. The budget for rural development is 7.6 billion. Four billion of that. represent State budget appropriations for co-financing and 3.6 billion. CZK are state budget funds, which will subsequently be covered by income from the European Union. Environment. In the chapter of the Ministry of Environment, revenue from the sale of emission allowances is budgeted for a total amount of 5.9 billion. and related expenditure at the same time. Other funds are budgeted in the chapter of the Ministry of Industry and Trade to promote renewable energy sources. Municipalities and regions. The budget contains an annual valuation of the contribution to the performance of the state administration in the context of financial relations with the regions and municipalities of 5%. In the chapter of the General Treasury Administration, funds are provided for the continuation of the sub-programme Support for Development and Reconstruction of the Material Technical Base of Regional Schools in the Surroundings of Large Towns. For 2018, the budget amount shall be 0,6 billion. with a view to increasing the capacity of basic nine-year-old schools in the competence and property of municipalities. The government's budget reserve is up to less than 5 billion, of which 0.36% of the state budget expenditure. The expenditure of the government debt chapter for 2018 is proposed in a volume of 45.9 billion. The crown, which is 0.4 billion. CZK less against the approved budget for 2017. At the end of 2018, the share of government debt in GDP of 32 per cent is expected. The draft State Budget Act submitted for 2018 is the result of the consensus of coalition partners of the government. Finally, I would just like to say that the negotiations on the budget were, of course, difficult. It was influenced not only by the proximity of the elections but also by the fact that the initial state budget requirements exceeded the deficit of 50 billion. 100 billion. I would like to thank my colleagues from the government for having managed to reach a consensus which, in addition to the mandatorial expenses that had to be met and which, in addition to the total addition of all state employees and all public administration employees, has also been able to increase investment from the state budget, as I have already said, by 5 billion. We're down by three billion. More in college. We have met almost all the requirements for science, research and innovation. I consider the budget, as has already been said, to be realistic and to be characterised by the art of the possible. Finally, I would like to ask you, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, to support the Government Bill on the State Budget for 2018 and to approve the basic data of the draft law at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u5	I thank the Minister of Finance of the Government of the Czech Republic, Ivan Pilný, for his opening words. I will now ask the President and rapporteur of this press, Mrs Miloslava Vostrá, to inform us of the budgetary committee's meeting. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, colleagues, as has already been said here, this draft state budget was dealt with by the Committee on Budgets at its meeting on 30 November. I'm not gonna repeat the basic numbers. I think there have been quite a lot of them here from the Minister so that you can get a picture of how the draft state budget for 2018 is drawn up. The Committee on Budgets dealt in particular with the total amount of revenue, expenditure, then the way in which the balance was settled, the subsidy relationship with the territorial units and, of course, also took note of relations with the European Union. On the basis of all these issues, discussions and discussions, the Committee on Budgets finally adopted a resolution that you all have at your disposal, but to do the procedures, let me introduce you to it. Resolution of the Budget Committee of the second meeting of 30 November 2017 on the first reading of the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018, House Press No. 2. Following the opening words of the Minister of Finance, Ivan Pilný, Mrs Vostré's report, and following the debate of the Committee on Budgets: I. recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 at first reading: The Chamber of Deputies I. approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 according to the House's Press 2, which are: A. The amount of revenue fixed by amount of CZK 1 314 497 641 409, the amount of expenditure fixed by amount of CZK 1 364 497 641 409, difference between income and expenditure determined by the amount - CZK 50 000 000 000. [[Balance]] B. Method of settlement of the balance by these financing items (a) increasing the state of government bonds up to CZK 50 479 347 964 b) change in state financial assets accounts by an increase of CZK 479 347 964 c. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the regions, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, namely contributions of a total amount of 1 197 575 400 CZK. D. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of municipalities, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, in total in individual regions, namely subsidies and contributions of a total amount of CZK 8 605 003 980. E. The financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, namely the contribution of a total amount of CZK 959 571 000. F. Authorisation of the Minister of Finance in §2 para. 1, 2, authorisation of the Ministry of Finance to proceed in determining the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration to individual municipalities and the capital city of Prague and to redistribute the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration during the calendar year according to §1 para. 10 (Annex No) 8, everything in the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 according to the House's press (2). [[including the possibility to change the amount of total revenue, total expenditure and other indicators referred to herein and to that extent]] II. notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 (a) contains financial relations with the budget of the European Union, namely the expected revenue from the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 70 034 077 273 and contributions to the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 40 60 00 000 000, (b) determines the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Company, a.s., amounting to CZK 211 000 000 000 and the amount of the subsidy to supplement its insurance funds CZK 2,800 000 000; III. commands to discuss the chapter and headings of the government draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 as follows: Committee of the Chamber of Deputies - ordered chapter of the Government proposal SR: [[Circuit]] Committee on Petitions: 304 - Office of the Government 309 - Ombudsman's Office 343 - Office for Personal Data Protection - State expenditure in support of non-state non-profit organisations [[Workbook B]] The Committee on Budgets shall: 301 - Office of the President of the Republic 302 - Parliament's Chamber of Deputies 303 - Parliament's Senate 312 - Ministry of Finance 345 - Czech Statistical Office 359 - Office of the National Budget Board 396 - Government debt 397 - Operation of state financial assets 398 - General Treasury Administration The Supervisory Committee shall: 371 - Office for the Management of Political Parties and Political Movements 381 - Supreme Audit Office Committee on European Affairs: - State budget expenditure relating to the EU budget and financial mechanisms excluding agricultural policy - financial relations with the EU, EEA, Norway and Switzerland - the contribution of the EU's own resources from the SR to the EU budget; [[all workbook B]] [[14.40 hours]] The Economic Committee shall: 322 - Ministry of Industry and Trade 327 - Ministry of Transport 328 - Czech Telecommunications Office 344 - Industrial Property Office 349 - Energy Regulatory Authority 353 - Office for the Protection of Competition 373 - Office for Access to Transport Infrastructure 374 - Administration of state tangible reserves 375 - State Office for Nuclear Safety The Constitutional Committee shall: 336 - Ministry of Justice - part administrative [[and a summary of the whole chapter]] 355 - Institute for the Study of Totalitarian Regimes 358 - Constitutional Court Defence Committee: 307 - Ministry of Defence 308 - National Security Authority Security Committee: 305 - Security Information Service 314 - Ministry of the Interior - part of security, fire protection and summary of the whole chapter 336 - Ministry of Justice - part of prison 376 - General inspection of security forces 378 - National Cyber and Information Security Office Social Policy Committee: 313 - Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs Health Committee: 335 - Ministry of Health Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports: 321 - Grant Agency of the Czech Republic 333 - Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports 334 - Ministry of Culture 361 - Academy of Sciences 377 - Technological Agency of the Czech Republic Election Committee: 372 - Czech Radio and Television Council The Public Administration and Regional Development Committee shall: 314 - Ministry of the Interior - part administrative 317 - Ministry of Regional Development - Financial relations with budgets of local authorities, voluntary associations of municipalities and regional councils of cohesion regions [[G-book]] The Committee on the Environment: 315 - Ministry of the Environment 348 - Czech Mining Authority Foreign Committee: 306 - Ministry of Foreign Affairs Agricultural Committee: 329 - Ministry of Agriculture - common agricultural policy - link to the state budget (direct payments, settlement direct payments from national sources, support for rural development, measures of the common organisation of the market - notebook B and the chapter notebook) 346 - Czech office of survey and cadastral IV. further commands the medium-term outlook of the state budget of the Czech Republic for the years 2019 and 2020 (the House Press 3) to the Budget Committee; II. empowers the Committee rapporteur, Mr Vostroa, to introduce this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies - which I have done. Thank you for your attention. I have read the resolution whole so that I will not have to read it again in the following discussion then, possibly before the vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u7	I thank the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and open a general debate in which I have two applications with priority rights so far, Vice-President Tomio Okamura and Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I also have three Members enrolled in the debate - Jiří Dolejš, Věra Kovářová and Mrs Golasowská, stating that Mrs Kovářová withdraws her application, so two. That would be great, but I don't think that's gonna last. I will now ask Mr Tomio Okamura, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, to take the floor. Mr. Miroslav Kalousek will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me, on behalf of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy - SPD, to comment on the draft state budget for 2018. I will speak like a layman who thinks of common sense, with 20 years of managerial experience from a multinational company. From a general point of view, we can all agree that while the Ministry of Finance is planning an increase in revenue, it is also planning a very high deficit of 50 billion. Crowns. While gross domestic product, GDP, increased by 2.4 percent last year, the Ministry of Finance estimates 4.1 percent for this year. This is a pretty high increase, and it is clear that there is an accounting marketing move taking place, when the government tells us in a year that it has managed to reduce the budget deficit by some of the billions that it has incorporated as a reserve in its budget today. It's nice to have reserves, but it's good to know about it. With regard to the risks on the revenue side, it would be good to keep in mind the situation in Europe and in our country. I remind eurozone lovers that the crisis in Greece has not yet ended, but has been subdued. And next year, the euro and Europe's economy will generally threaten the crises in Spain. The Spanish banks survived the last crisis only by saving Europe. At the same time, the European Central Bank, the ECB, has clearly confirmed that the southern European debt of governments and banks is not resolved. It asks European banks to set aside money as a reserve for outstanding loans. This is not much to be said, but the amount of bad credit in euro area banks is already approaching a trillion euros. In theory, as a result of the situation in Spain, Europe may be threatened by another bond crisis, i.e. a sharp rise in interest rates, particularly in peripheral countries and regions facing the risk of breaking off a particular territory, and here I am referring to Scotland, Wallonia, Corsica, Tyrol, but also to regions that are not mentioned here, such as the Faroe Islands or Sardinia, etc. There are referendums and events for independence planned everywhere for the coming months. I will just remind the pseudo-democrats here that the threats to Europe's economic and political crises are not the work of democracy, namely that people wish to decide freely and democratically on their own. The crises are the result of the contempt and ignorance of democracy by the elite. Just as Mr Kalousek's bloc is swaying democracy on one side, but on the other side, they also despise democracy and citizens from high up. The undemocratic dictation of the European Union and individual countries is not only a political problem, but also an economic one, because it indisputably harms the economies of its own countries and is a risk that we simply have to count on. Let me return to the effectiveness of the budget. The devil is hidden in detail. It would probably be worth a brief analysis of the waste and theft of public money by the SAO's representatives. Especially to new colleagues in I strongly recommend reading the SAO's reports at times. Well, I suggest you don't read them before bed, because then you won't sleep, or you'll have wild dreams. Let's move on. There is no doubt that Members from the ex-government coalition will show us how they have increased their incomes. However, the fact is that tax collection costs have been increasing continuously for years in the first place. Let me give you an example of a little guinea pig. The SAO auditors also focused on two projects together in 68 miles. CZK, which should improve and make more effective the functioning of the Customs Administration of the Czech Republic and save. Among other things, they should reduce the number of systemized sites. Customs administration in 68 miles. CZK has managed to reduce the number of employees by a remarkable 13 civilian employees compared to the estimated 403 seats. Yes, you can hear me well. Instead of 403 only 13. And it was a 68-mile project. Crowns. But in the name of savings, money is wasted everywhere. Everywhere we look. Recently, the media reported further findings of the Supreme Audit Office. In order to strengthen inter-general cooperation, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of the Interior divided the municipalities and local authorities' unions within two similarly targeted projects 619 million. Crowns. The vast majority of this amount, 586 miles. CZK, went to the wages and rewards of the people involved in the projects. And the result was - and I quote now the report of the Supreme Audit Office - "an analysis or summary of the current situation and a new or innovative approach to the already existing cooperation of municipalities did not flow from them. The possible future progress in the mutual cooperation of municipalities is not in any way indicative of these analyses.' End of the SAO quote. In layman's terms, we threw over half a billion out the window behind the agency's essay exercises sucked into grant programs, with no effect on the public administration. This subject logically brings me to our nonprofit sector. They're estimated to be 10 billion. CZK annually, but we will not know the exact number from the budget, because expenditure is spread out in several ministries and goes through many different institutions. Both old and helpless people or vulnerable children and, of course, anti-national political propaganda are hiding under them. To my surprise, funding propaganda went so far, for example. journalists around the activities of Jakub Patočka from the Journal Referendum were paid as fictitious advisors either by the Office of the Government or by Mr Patočka from the money of the Czech Post. This is an entirely unacceptable treatment of public funds, and the government is once again responsible. [[14.50 hours]] It is no secret that our SPD movement calls for the termination of any public funding of non-profit organizations with a political agenda. Between 2007 and 2015, from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, unfortunately, we do not have the current figures at our disposal despite all efforts, went to various projects of so-called non-profit organizations in support of the integration of immigrants almost 100 million crowns. In 2015, approximately 30 nonprofits with a political programme of more than 19 million crowns drained from the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. For example, the Centre for the Integration of Foreigners is doing so well that Google advertising has also been paid, and there are seven branches throughout the Czech Republic where about 50 employees work, and of course the vast majority of public subsidies go to wages and fees. There's no sense in naming everything here. Of course, tens of millions of so-called non-profits for migrants are also given by the Ministry of the Interior. Another source of money is the Ministry of Culture. This ministry fell under ČSSD and KDU-ČSL in the last period. So if someone is constantly arguing that we only have 12 refugees here, which, of course, is nonsense, then my head is not taking me where and why hundreds of millions are disappearing to support them for dozens of non-profit organizations. And I would like to hear from the Members present here from the former Government of the ANO, the ČSSD and the KDU-ČSL movement, and I call on them here to respond to this debate, as it is still a budget drawn up by them, exactly how much will be from the budget according to their proposal - Minister, if you could answer us exactly how much will be from the budget according to their proposal, for example, to support migration and what boxes the money is hidden in. Because we can't track them there for the reasons that I put here. Who, then, is to be their final beneficiary? Because we already know that no fugitives are going to get the money, but they're parasitic on them at least dozens of profits and hundreds of profiteers. That's the right name for so-called nonprofits. From what we can see, for example, it is clear that the fight for migrants is not about refugees at all, but about the comfortable reception of public money related groups. And to close this issue, the budget, of course, cuts off thousands more in smart-witted quotes, whether by overpriced purchases of technology or services, or by financing unnecessary activities that they invent for municipalities or institutions of various agencies living from subsidies. Ladies and gentlemen, in general, we are pleased that the budget increases the incomes of civil servants, adds to pensioners and others. It's all good, and it's got our support. We in our SPD movement will always support decent and proper citizens, we will always want to add to senior citizens, teachers, paramedics, disabled fellow citizens, working families, businessmen and other needy people who deserve help, and we will always be opponents - fundamental opponents - support to parasites, that is, those who are skilled but who refuse to work in the long term. In the debate on the budget, I remind you once again that the debate must be conducted not only on how much, but also on how. That money could be a hundred percent more for grandmothers or poor families with children if it had not been an immense waste, stealing and handing out related groups or parasitic so-called nonprofits with a political program. The budget deficit could have been much lower if we took the job and started auditing the expenditure of individual ministries, individual state institutions of all the organisations receiving money from the state budget. In economic terms, the deficit alone may not always be a negative. For example, if the government uses the money it borrows as an investment that will return to the country and the state register. But such a vision is alien to existing governments. Unfortunately, the state budget for 2018 does not show any significant signs of investment in something that would bring the country a profit. On the contrary, investments are suppressed. Even the case of lithium showed us that there was a reverse trend - the country to be deprived and robbed again. I hope that we will continue to address the case of lithium here in the Chamber of Deputies and, of course, our SPD movement will in no way let this issue fall into place. Of course, for some politicians, the bribery of the so-called nonprofit sector is beneficial. It is closely connected with the media and some artists and paying your own PR from the state is really a case for all, sorry, the case for our money. And while we're on the case for big money, let's recall some more government proposals. Recall the redemption of the pig farm in Lety u Písek for more than half a billion crowns by the government of the ANO, ČSSD and KDU-ČSL movement, with plans to cost hundreds of millions more. For what? I have no idea, because for more than 21 million crowns in the place of the collection and work camp, the memorial is already worth. In fact, the vast majority of the places where the Nazi concentration camps, which were only in our territory around 40, are often not worth a memorial plate for 500, while the only building-preserved Nazi camp in Brno near Svitav is run down for decades without any assistance. Ladies and gentlemen, dear guests, we regret that the government has failed to reduce the deficit more strongly, even though we are expecting higher incomes. We regret that the ex-government in the proposal has failed to increase pensions more. The expenditure on valorisation will be only CZK 16.6 billion in 2018. That's painfully small when we see hundreds of millions to billions actually running away in all the resorts, and I have given specific examples here. So we repeatedly remind ourselves that even the principle of the valuation of pensions by percentage is an injustice calling to heaven, because the pension will rise by 240 crowns to the person who has, for example, 6,000 crowns, and the person who has 20,000 will be raised by 800 crowns. Therefore, our SPD movement has been promoting this, and we have been pushing it from the outset and persistently so that the valorisation will always take place with the same amount, not with the same percentage. I discussed it with Prime Minister Sobotka four years ago, and he refused that it was nonsense. Ladies and gentlemen, even the most ignorant may feel that extra money is needed by someone who has to live with a few thousand more than one who has twenty. Despite all of our reservations, and I have many and many more, but we will vote in favour at first reading because we do not want a budget provisional. At the same time, we will work in the House to push for change. As we stand up to the final vote on the budget, by which I mean the third, final reading, this will still be the subject of discussion in the SPD. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u9	Thank you to Vice-President Tomie Okamur. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek and following him with priority rights, Vice-President Petr Fiala. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly convey the position of TOP 09 on the Government Bill on the State Budget. I ask that we never see the bill on the state budget as a one-year job, a static matter that was dealt with in one year for the next year. It is always some outcome of the government's long-term budgetary and economic policy of significantly limited commitments that the government has entered into, whether by enforcing certain laws that will therefore impose compulsory expenses or by concluding contractual relations, whether personnel or business. That is why it is always important to look at the budget from the perspective of trends in individual items, trends in individual priorities, trends in basic indicators. I would like to say that unfortunately, a number of negative trends that this government has brought into budgetary policy continue. Let me name some of them. It is in the first place a very irresponsible year-on-year increase in spending, much higher than the operation of the state would deserve. We'll get to specific numbers. What is much worse than the increase in expenditure itself is the fact that these expenditures are used for current consumption and redistribution into transfers, and investment activities in both infrastructure and science and research are backed up. What is going on with all the budgets of this government, including this proposal, is ignoring the challenges of ageing the population, i.e. pension reforms and health insurance. One of the most striking changes that we can see in the government's budgetary policy is the dramatic increase in salaries per civil servant, not because they got so much added, but because so much was increased by their number. We'll also get to specific numbers. [[15.00 hours]] And the last negative trend is memento for all future years, and that is increasing the risks for the economic recession period. Of course, the government can sin on the fact that we already have a relatively good fourth, fifth year, that the Czech economy is stepping above its production potential, that we have exceptionally low unemployment, but we all know that this is not eternal. When the economic cycle is turned into recession and income declines, the government's commitments, the commitments of a mandatory and quasi-mandatory nature, will remain, and any future government will be in a very difficult-to-solvable position. Let me just briefly comment on the amount of expenditure. The government is planning 1 beat for next year. 364.5 billion. Crowns. It's 55 billion. CZK more than this year, which is a very dramatic increase from year to year by 55 billion. Compared to the last year when Petr Nečas' government left its mandate, i.e. 2013, the government has almost 200 billion, exactly 191.4 billion. More than Petr Nečas' government had in 2013. What else did she do with the money? Where did the top priorities go? Because budgetary priorities are real political priorities. I ask you nicely whether any politician, whether the mayor, the chieftain, or the prime minister will say his priorities are a), b), c), so I recommend that you open a budget for everyone. And if the budget lines and the rate of increase are consistent with what he's saying, he's telling the truth. But if it needs to be said that culture is its key priority, you open up the budget and you find that the money for culture is falling, I speak hypothetically, I am not commenting on this budget right now, so it's just not telling the truth. And in a similar way, let us compare what the government says by the numbers it puts forward for next year. Again, it has 191 billion at its disposal. More than Petr Nečas' government had in 2013. Anyone who would come from the outside and see a very good time - economic growth and by 200 billion. more spending - and he would look at the state of our infrastructure, then logically he would have to calculate the maximum number of these 200 billion. will take place in investment expenditure, whether in infrastructure expenditure, whether in science and education expenditure. But the opposite is true. If we look at the budgeted amount of investment for next year, the government is proposing 89.8 billion. CZK 14 billion. less than this year. And please be nice, even 12 billion. less than the government invested Petr Nečas at the time of the end of the crisis, and by 24 billion. less than the government invested in Petr Nečas in 2012, at a time when the economic crisis peaked and when we were under fire criticizing that we were investing little and ligating the economy. So at the time, we did not invest enough and ligated the economy by investing 24 billion. More than the government plans to invest next year. And I'm not saying we invested a lot. All I'm saying is that from the 200 billion that the government has in addition, it is not willing to give one billion extra for investment, on the contrary, it has to reduce them compared to this year in order to implement other priorities than investment. When he says that investment is a priority, he simply does not speak the truth because it reduces the level of investment compared to last year, this year. And again, against our years in a time of economic crisis. So where's the money going? Are they going to science and research? This is also one of the very stated priorities of this government. I don't think so. If we look at the amount of spending that the government is planning for science and research, it is 41.4 billion. True, it's about 1.3 billion. more than this year and it is about 2 to 3 billion. more than we have invested in science and research at a time of economic crisis, i.e. in absolute terms, it is a slight increase, but rather we could say that it is stagnation. Definitely the rate of increase in science and research does not correspond to the rate of economic growth and it is definitely just a completely marginal fraction of the nearly 200 billion that the government has for next year in addition compared to 2013. I repeat the question once again: Where are they going? Quite a lot of this money goes into subsidies to business entities. There is no increase compared to last year, on the contrary it is 3 billion. less, but it's a nice 46 billion, which the taxpayer will subsidize business entities with. Various subsidies you know - we will support the bakery craft in our state so that a new line for the company PENAM can be purchased. And a number of such subsidies would certainly be found. Together, it's 46 billion. at a time of boom, at a time of minimal unemployment, at a time when things are going well. It is significantly more than the right-wing governments, which were around 35 billion, subsidized. Crowns. The increase here is quite significant, and from the logic of the matter we would expect it to be the other way around, that if there are any subsidies, they are used as impulses in times of crisis. But if, at the time of the boom, we have much more subsidies from the budget of business entities than in a time of crisis, it really doesn't seem like an effective expense to us. Here I would like to draw attention to the items that are real priorities. So if we look at what is really massively exhausting the volume of 191 billion that the government has at its disposal, the greatest item is social benefits that have increased by 68.2 billion during this government. Crowns. It is fair to add, please, that pensions are also included in the social benefit item. It's not just social welfare transfers, but it also includes pensions. But it is the biggest item in the world, which means the first and main priority of the government - social benefits and pensions. I would essentially have nothing against this item if the investments were at least the same size. But investments are falling instead of growing. The second largest budgetary priority of the government is already significantly more problematic, and this is indeed a dramatic increase in civil servants. Between 2014 and next year, because even next year, the government is planning another increase in civil servants compared to this year, this is an increase of 36 786 civil servants. And if I compare it with 2013, i.e. the year that Petr Nečas' right-wing government ended, that's 39 836 civil servants. The army of nearly 40,000 new civil servants, with, of course, its pay claims, which we plan for next year from 200 billion, which the government has additional, 52.1 billion. [[15.10 hours]] In four years, the needs of the state's salary budget and OON's civil servants increased by 52 billion. This is the second unparalleled largest budget, and therefore the political priority of the government. And it's being realized, please, not so much because the salaries are going up, even if they're going up, I wouldn't have anything against it in good times, but because we have 40,000 more of those employees. In other words, even though we're paying for 52 billion. more than we paid in 2013, so we still do not have the opportunity to pay top experts for government administration, especially at low unemployment, because we do not pay quality, but we pay quantity. We're paying 40,000 more people. I'm stressing that I say to employees that I don't say to officials. It's unfair to say 40,000 officials. Officials make up only about 15 percent of this, although the word "only" does not belong here, because I think that 15 percent of the 40 thousand increase in officials is also a great deal. There's firemen, of course, there's teachers, there's cops. No offense, but if I need to raise some professions in the army of 430,000 civil servants, as a responsible economic operator, I should be saving those employees somewhere with a more efficient administration performance. This is probably the easiest example that says: Yes, the state really does not follow as a company, because no company could afford this to increase its employees by 40,000 without increasing its productivity. That would go wrong. But taxpayers' money doesn't make blood flow. So an increase of 39 836 civil servants and an increase of 52 billion. compared to 2013, the second largest government priority. So if we sum it up and compare it in the trend between 2013 and 2018, the government has 191.4 billion compared to 2013. More. From these funds, it gives not zero for investment, but minus because it needs 204 billion for current expenditures. and it's only 191.4. So what's he gonna do? That's how they lower the investment. They will reduce them by 12.5 billion to have social benefits, thousands of new civil servants, subsidies to business entities - they cannot be cut short, no, we all know who they would be short - well, and a relatively significant item in 203 billions. current expenditure is purchases of services, other non-investment expenditure. Only if I count these two items, so we're at 17.8, i.e. 18 billion. increase in inactivity in operation compared to 2013. On this occasion, I often have to remember my discussions, which I held as Minister of Finance on the Council of Economic and Social Agreements with the then Vice-President of the Union of Industry and Transport, Mr, then Vice-President, Juříček. And Vice-President Juříček, when he was going through the budget, he always said very angryly: On the traffic, Minister, you really should save more on the traffic. I see you're saving up, but you're saving up. See how we entrepreneurs have to save and save, much more than you do. And I was kind of embarrassed every time he told me that, and I kind of blamed him, because I thought, "Yes, you could save even more. But it had its political limits, and still, everyone was calling me "I'm cutting where I can." So I am really looking forward to the fact that this time, Mr Juříček, not Vice-President Juříček, will vote in favour of this insolently eaten budget and will feel that it is only now the right budgetary policy. I'm gonna have a really good time. I'll take a front row ticket for that. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the budget is, of course, the result of some long-term budgetary policy. There's no way anyone can come in and make a balanced budget in 20 days. Technically, it would certainly be possible, but it would be a budget that would not be able to secure some priorities, because in the meantime, the government has quite irresponsibly committed a lot of things, whether by law or by treaties, e.g. with the employees. However, at least on the traffic, just as Mr. Juříček and others have always asked me to do, at least on the traffic, there is still something to be saved. And in my opinion, it is possible to save at least as much as the government anticipated in June of this year. In June this year, the Ministry of Finance's material for the amount of expenditure was 22.4 billion. taller than the government is now offering us. Then under political pressure, given that the benefits of the economy really improved, we painted 22.4 billion. on income as opposed to the material in June and we could by 22.4 billion. increase the expenditure without the planned deficit of 50 billion. Moved. We believe that at least this one, I'm sorry for the word, the government's gluttony could forgive itself, and that at least this money wouldn't have to spend on the traffic and the 22.4 billion. The deficit could be lower. Within the total expenditure volume of 1 beat. 364.5 billion. This is really not an unrealistic and outrageous request of the opposition. Reduce spending by 22.4 billion. Crowns. Of course, even then, it won't be a budget we could be proud of, but at least we wouldn't have to be ashamed of the finals. Of course, the finals were items that are respectable, which must remain there. I am talking really about the state's operational momentum and the current operating expenditure in individual chapters. Since, as is known under the Rules of Procedure, the draft budget cannot be rejected, it can only be returned to the Government, I would like to propose a resolution which I will transmit in writing to the rapporteur, Madam President of the Committee on Budgets. The motion for a resolution would read as follows: The Chamber of Deputies returns the government's budget with the following recommendation: 1. Expenditure will be reduced by CZK 22.4 billion - to the amount planned in June 2017. It's December. Revenue kept at the current level, balance reduced by 22.4 billion, deadline of revision 20 days. Some of you might argue that this means a budget provisional. I would like to assure you, on the basis of 25 years of experience, that the 20-day budgetary provisional at the beginning of January does not pose any problem at all. It wouldn't be the first time, it wouldn't be the last time. Budgetary make-up is a problem at a time when it lasts a long time and above all, nothing is known about the endgame. If we all know that, around 20 January, the budget will be approved - corrected and overworked - this will be no problem for stability either on the domestic stage or on international markets. If you're scared, don't trust him. So much for my performance. I thank you for your attention and for considering our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u11	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I now have two factual points - Mr Karel Schwarzenberg and Mr Pavel Juříček. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u12	Mr President, honourable Members, in the previous speech, Mr Okamura criticised the costs of 400 million. on the purchase of a farm farm in Lety and noted that there were more than 40 similar camps in the Czech Republic, such as Lety. I am not an expert in the award of pigs, but I do know that only two concentration camps in Lety and Moravia served to exterminate Rom people in our country. And that it was not in German direction, but it was in Czech direction. The flights were established by a protectorate government and guarded by Czech gendarmes, who unfortunately settled there in the performance of their service to German concentration guards. That's our shame if we're talking about Lety! It's not German, it's our shame. And we shouldn't be twitching when it comes to removing our shame. This ruined the image of the Czech nation and the Czech country for many years, even after the Velvet Revolution. It's high time this pig farm was removed. And thank God that's gonna happen. But above all, I remember unlike various branches of German concentration camps in our country, this one and in Hodonín was the only one who really was a Czech concentration camp, which is our shame. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Pavel Juříček's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u14	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I must say that Mr Kalousek, through the President, is right about many things. I've always criticized the state budget and the big spending pages. But I also criticised the methodology of the budget, which is still the same as it was historically 27 years. I think that, rather than discussing individual items, let us let this budget go, so that the risks described by Mr Kalousek are not taken. To do what everyone probably expects us to do, to approve the state budget. Although I agree with the comments, I agree with a number of comments. I will be the first to try to cut individual operating expenses. I have to say, when I read the 480 pages, I often hit my head against the table. And, of course, I have, as I said before, a number of comments on this, but I think we need to act stately and approve the budget as it is. Today it says 5. 12th and certainly during the following year we have a chance to make individual cuts and individual transfers between chapters. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u15	I thank Mr Juříček for his time. One more factual remark from Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Then, with priority rights, Mr Petr Fiala. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. I respect the position that has been expressed here by Mr Juříček. I just want to draw attention to a specific detail. We have, of course, both at second reading and then during the year through budgetary measures the opportunity to move funds from some items to others, but we no longer have the opportunity to save. It's just that the expenses will be approved and spent. We can just move, we won't save.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u17	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Vice-President Petr Fiala and then Mr Jiří Dolejš would prepare himself. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I will now introduce you to the position of the Civil Democratic Party on the draft state budget. And since the first reading concerns the basic parameters of the state budget, I will only talk about the basic parameters of this proposal and also about the basic parameters of the political circumstances in which we are beginning to discuss the budget in the Chamber of Deputies. And I think it's very important from the point of view of the short debate that's been going on here. At first glance, this draft budget is curious about what the Minister of Finance has already mentioned. In fact, one government will present it at first reading and defend it at second reading and ask for support from another government. But actually, it's curious at first sight. In fact, it's not that curious in our terms. Because both governments, both prime ministers actually, the present one and the future one, virtually. Therefore, their political parties, to be precise, have cooperated on this budget. It is their joint work, and from this point of view it doesn't really matter who puts the budget forwards, because this is the joint proposal of the Prime Minister in the demise of Bohuslav Sobotka and the Prime Minister almost as Andrej Babiš. However, from every other point of view, this budget, this proposal and the associated political circumstances of the galleries are curiosities and to some extent absurd. I'm going to point some of them out here at this point. Let us conclude that the state budget may be the most important, certainly one of the most important laws of each year. It defines basic parameters of government management, but also parameters of each government's strategic efforts. In this sense, of course, this is also a strong political document. And when we look at that budget, we have to ask ourselves, " So what is the deal with this proposal? What politically expresses this proposal? What does it represent politically? First of all, it has been said in the media that it will have support in the House at least from ANO, CSSD, KDU-ČSL, other parties have already joined. The three parties involved in preparing this budget said that they would support the proposal. All right, we at ODS acknowledge that. I'm just asking in this context why these things don't work normally and normally, why the ANO movement doesn't actually form a coalition with these parties at this time. Why didn't he even show interest in such a coalition? And that would be logical if they put together a budget here and approved the budget. The budget according to which the government will act all next year. I am talking about this, among other things, because the ANO movement sometimes complains here, and its Chairman Babiš, that no one wants to go to the government with him. Sometimes they invite someone to do it, on Twitter, in the Chamber of Deputies. There is a clear voting coalition with the SPD and the communists. And the basic framework for its operation, the basic framework for its operation for the next year and with a view to the next one will be promoted by the ANO movement in cooperation with ČSSD and KDU-ČSL. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, once again, on my part, there is no remorse. On the contrary, I just want to make it clear. And I understand both the CSSD and the KDU-ČSL, the previous coalition partners, that they are applying for their work. We in the ODS do not agree with this proposal, we do not agree with this draft budget, but we politically understand it. And it's understandable for us. As far as the YES movement is concerned, some might call it a political skill that they do not want a proper partner, that they can form an ad hoc coalition according to their current needs. I'm just stating the facts here. Facts that are strange, but which we take note in some way. [[15.30 hours]] And I'm saying it for one more reason. I am also saying this to remind you that, regardless of my opinion or the opinion of the Civil Democratic Party on this particular draft budget, each specific draft budget is the result of some work and has some very specific parameters. And they determine what the government can and will do in the following year, and everything else that anyone wants to do and how they will do it and what they're dreaming about, it's all going to be from the future government and its prime minister, forgive me, in his own words, basically just blabbering, because here we have a draft budget, a draft budget from the workshop YES, KDU-ČSL and ČSSD, according to which the government will have to proceed next year. This is, please, ladies and gentlemen, a political reality and everything else is just some kind of media and political mist, it's just a rumor to conceal or at least obscure this fact. So the next curiosity that we're going to witness here will be how we're going to be here - so it will explain to us and the citizens why this budget for the future government, for the future monochrome government of the YES movement, is actually good and satisfactory when they don't want the continuation of the project, the government that prepared this budget that is being presented here, but when the entire ANO campaign based on the fact that they're going to do it differently, because they haven't yet been able to. I would like to point out when you look at this draft budget that this draft budget does not in any chapter contain macroeconomic assumptions and possibilities to fulfill dreams of fundamentally better infrastructure, investments, substantially higher salaries, support for education and education, and reform of the pension system. You will find no such thing in this proposal, nothing positive in this regard can be seen from this proposal. On the contrary, we also see in this proposal an open door for all the negative phenomena that we have witnessed in the last parliamentary term. Even in this proposal we will find other subsidies for the largest, we will find non-investment transfers to business entities, which even exceed CZK 46 billion. They will also continue the existing government-approved investment incentives to large firms. If you look in there, you'll find out which one. And, of course, the curiosities or the particular political situation here include the basic macroeconomic framework and the deficit that is being presented to us in the amount of CZK 50 billion. And in this context, when you're looking at this budget, I call on everyone to remember how many times we've heard about responsible management at the time of the election campaign. I urge everyone to calculate in this context, when they look at the basic macroeconomic frameworks, to look at how many years we have had continuous economic growth, and I call on everyone to compare this to the draft state budget that we have put forward here. From this point of view, the ODS considers this budget to be macroeconomically irresponsible and literally absurd. And under other circumstances - under different circumstances, but not today - we would suggest that it be re-worked. But because we don't want anyone here to be able to spread myths about how we won't let anyone work here, and because it's September -- sorry, it's not September, but it's December -- and because the budget would be redesigned by the same people who prepared it, so it wouldn't do any good, so for all these reasons let me say that the ODS will not propose to return the budget this time. We're not gonna help anyone campaign, we're gonna work here. That is why the Civic Democratic Party MP club will present changes in its second reading, and we will also allow the YES movement to improve this budget for the benefit of the Czech Republic, for the benefit of its citizens and its best interests. That's how we proceed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u19	I thank Prime Minister Fial, and with priority rights, we do not have... We do, so Prime Minister Farsky has priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the opinion of the Mayor's Club and independent of the draft government budget. The budget, as it is presented, is not only unambient from our point of view, but basically takes the next year to the Czech Republic. It is as political as all previous budgets have always been, but this one is still affected by the fact that it is electoral, and so at a time when we have minimum unemployment and planned for the next year at 2.8%, which is an exceptional number throughout the EU, when we have 3.1 percent of the planned growth of the economy, which is also a very exceptional position within the EU, and I am very glad that this is the case, so we are also planning to hack another axe of 50 billion. The koruna that someone will have to pay back in the future, and until it is repaid, we will pay at least interest on it. And I think we're wasting the opportunity that's here, because in order for the economy to be in such a great position, this is how it works, times like this, I'm afraid, they won't last long, and they won't be repeating for a long time. Therefore, we will not support this budget at first reading and, on the contrary, we will support the minimum budget and I would say a constructive proposal to return and reduce by 22.4 billion. the expenditure aspects of the budget so that the debt is not at least that high. The way this budget is built is based on two pillars from my point of view, both on the pillar of good mood and optimism, because it is not driven by state investment. We can see that. Indeed, when you look at the quantification, there is currently less investment than in crisis years, capital spending has fallen by 13.5% year on year, we are somewhere around 90 billion. CZK, but they are drawn by optimism of households, spending, household debt as well as investment by private companies. It is a good thing that this is the case, but putting it only on optimism and mood in a situation where, of course, it can change very quickly within weeks, maybe months, so it is not responsible. The second thing he is built on, and the European Union is that we can afford to spend that kind of money. If we looked at what the real deficit of the Czech Republic is, if we could subtract what comes from the EU every year, the budget does not look as positive as it was presented, and not even last year, which was mentioned how amazing it was that it was surplus, so if we did not accept EU funding, the last year's budget would be deficit. That's the reality. And we won't be just the net EU beneficiaries for a long time. 2020 is coming up. Adding two years to that N+2 billing, by 2022 at the latest, our position will be far from as strong and the EU's hundreds of billion-dollar revenues will dry up. We should prepare for that time, especially when we are growing this way, when the economy is in such excellent shape, because if I say in the years to come, only in years, in 2013 84 billion. from the EU, in 2014 75 billion, in 2015 150 billion, in 2016 less than 80 billion. If this money doesn't come, our deficit will be even deeper. We're not preparing for this at all! It's like, we're dancing today, we're having fun tonight. But we have a responsibility far longer than just responsibility from election to election. We have a responsibility to the people, so that the Republic will prosper not only in a year, two, three, four, but also in another 20 years, and it does not have that budget in it. [[15.40 hours]] That is why we think that at least in this amount, which is quite well defined, it would be worth at least 22 billion. they tried to save money. That is why we will join this proposal, and if this proposal does not pass, if we do not, at least in part, reach our future by indebting the Czech Republic less, I am already announcing that we are going to submit amendments when we are going to move within the various chapters, and it will be the proposals that will invest in the future, investing in education, investing in our children. By investing in not being the bottom line in 20 years, but in order to have high value added professions here, so that higher salaries are in the Czech Republic, so that we can also establish the zero step in pension reform so that pensions can be here in the future. And that is what the starosta and Independents will be presenting, and that is why, at this first stage, we cannot support the draft state budget, as it is presented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u21	Thank you, President Farský. Do we have someone here with priority rights? Yes, Chairman Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u22	Thank you for the floor. I will not repeat my previous speakers' reservations. I have more of a statement and questions for the Minister of Finance. Mr Finance Minister, you're at the press conference today that I've been watching, saying that the draft budget is the result of a possible one. I'd like you to define what you mean by possible. If it's a political agreement existing, because that's all there is to it. You said that the draft budget reflects the fact that it was this year's election year. But we're past the election. I remember when you got into office, so in one of your first performances, I don't know if in the media or here on the mic, you said, let me make it a little easier, that you're an Uncle Scrooge. And I have to say, if you meant it, you really don't recognize it in the draft budget. If you consider it, I would say a responsible approach to spending that you personally signed under a budget where total budget expenditure increases by 82 billion. from year to year, so I gotta say, you're not a cheap guy at all. That's what you've done to yourself, a task you really haven't done. If the deficit were still placed on investment, e.g. I think it would be 50 billion. more on the transport infrastructure, so it's a matter of debate that it's an investment in the future, and we could debate whether it's reasonable, whether it's all invested next year, yes or no. But even the investment result is relatively low. In fact, this reflects the negative trend of 2017. Let's see how much more invoices will be paid for investment in December. With that final account, as it was with the capital expenditure, we'll be able to take it by January 3rd or 4th, we'll see it by now. But we heard, all year 2017, we heard from the government that it was actually special, and that sometimes something didn't happen, that it wouldn't happen again, and it's happening again. And I was wondering, and I agree with you that this is a rather special situation, that you will be at first reading and you will probably no longer be at second and third reading, so I think that you could speak quite frankly, rationally, perhaps as a scrooge, and you could show us all who will vote on it, where you personally see the cotton and the reserves in the state budget. And I believe that you are able to show tens of billions that could go into infrastructure, because real is no longer changing the basic parameters of the budget, unfortunately. I see political reality, so I am not happy about it, but the fact that it will be a deficit of 50 billion is de facto given, given that all the Members or parliament clubs of the former government coalition, perhaps some other clubs. But there's room. Well, Minister, you're not going to tell me seriously that there's no way to save money on the expense page. Especially for current spending, which is rising by 6%, and it is not just the pensions. It's such a simple argument. You don't want to raise pensions. It's just not like that. There are too many operating expenses, and if the number of civil servants has risen by nearly 40,000 since 2014, that is not a good result. And we will come up with our own proposals as part of the second reading, where we can save money and where, on the contrary, spending is to be increased. Expenditure is to be increased in our view in defence, in security, in education. And where they're supposed to go down, they're subsidies and operating expenses. This is where our amendments will go. But it would be much better if you made such amendments as the ending Minister of Finance. We can adopt them, admit the authorship and say: Uncle Scrooge prepared this, if he was not bound by political agreements in the previous government, and could write it on his own terms, so here are the savings that the person who spent, I don't know, many months at the Ministry of Finance. It's not in my head how long you've been there, Minister. It would help all of us. It might also help to pass through such proposals. Because, as usual, if it was the budget, and it was in recent years, any opposition proposals that saved operating expenses were generally rejected by the government. I would now turn to Mr Juříček through Mr President because I listened to what he said. It says: A big mistake, the methodology of the budget has not changed. So let's say I agree with that. Who has had the Minister of Finance, Mr President, for the last four years? Your movement. Why haven't you changed the budget methodology? Well, maybe the Socialists and the People's Party wouldn't let you, I don't know. But you didn't even try. And I therefore expect that, hand in hand in hand in the Committee on Budgets, we will look for those reserves and that we will not postpone this by a year, because there is nothing state-building in this to approve a budget in which there is unnecessary spending. I think we understand that there's nothing to the state-building. The fact that we do not want to hinder the approval of the budget was clearly stated by the ODS President a moment ago. If we were to be in the normal financial year in September, we would definitely propose and support the return. But we're aware of reality. We've already talked about this, and I'm not gonna say it again. But we could still find tens of billions, and if we're modest, we can find billions of units. I noticed a balloon from the Ministry of Transport in public space last week, thinking that they could borrow up to 100 billion from the European Investment Bank. At the same time, we are building a budget with a deficit of 50 billion. I don't think it's necessary. I'll follow up on President Farský's speech. We are really late in the transport infrastructure to discuss how we will finance investment, but also the maintenance of the road and rail network after 2020. This will not be after 2022, the impact will already come in the financial year 2021, i.e. still in our term of office. And we haven't even started the debate on how to replace the dozens of billions that go to the transport infrastructure every year. And we can say-- sometimes it was thirty, sometimes it was fifty, but it was tens of billions. We don't know how we're gonna replace it. The easiest way is to take credit, but someone has to pay it back. But before I take a loan, I have to be sure that, in particular, current expenses are only as high as the state really needs. And that is not in this draft budget. And the last specific question to the Minister, and I don't need an answer today, but next time, or even today, I'll leave it up to you, Minister. How many national grant titles do we have? Maybe Madam Secretary will advise you. And how much is it in the sum? Now I'm talking about national, I'm not talking about financing European money. How much does this feed officials at all levels? One of them writes it, no, one of them prints grant titles, one of them writes it, then someone evaluates it, then someone checks it, preferably five institutions, Ministry of Finance, Audit Unit, SAO, Resort Ministry etc. It is actually a new regular industry that we should not support. I have seen that the new European Union game teaches children in a playful way how to apply for subsidies. That's not the way to go. The question is, Minister, how many grant titles are there, how much is there, and how much can we save now if we cancel the grant titles because they are essentially unfair. Donation titles for municipalities. What community doesn't need a sewer system, a firehouse, a falcon, a gym, a kindergarten, a elementary school? But then they write grant titles, and only a few will succeed. Let's cancel the grant titles, increase the budgetary determination of taxes, give it to the regions and municipalities, they can do better than the officials in Prague. We're going to cancel the x offices of those who write it, control those who like to make decisions so much, and that money will be invested much more effectively at the municipal or regional level than at the central level. We have some calculations, how many titles are there, and how many are the calculations, but you're sitting on those ministries, and I'm sure you have more accurate numbers. We'd be really interested. And since we're realists, we're not suggesting that we cancel everyone from one day to the next and save the whole amount. But if we were to cancel and save 30 percent of the subsidy money, we would already see what to do to boost transport infrastructure spending, and we would not have to take such a large loan with the European Investment Bank, if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u23	I also thank President Stanjur. We have here a registered speaker who is authorized to present an opinion on the basis of Section 58 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 for the pirát, Mr Ferjenčík. So if there's any other priority right? Really. President Kalousek to the facts. I'm sorry. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u24	I'm sorry, I don't want to delay, but I was a little provoked by Mr Stanjura's speech. If someone is concerned about a small amount of investment and is reassured by the fact that we may be able to take a loan from the European Investment Bank, then I would just like to point out that the loan from the European Investment Bank is, of course, calculated in deficit according to ESA 95 methodology and that this would require an amendment to the State Budget Act and an adjustment to its basic parameters. Otherwise, you just can't take the loan for next year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u25	Thank you, Mr Kalousek, and if there is no preferential right, please... So, in fact, Mr. Stanjura's point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u26	According to the Rules of Procedure, I respond to my previous speaker's speech. I'm not reassured - to understand - that a loan is to be taken. I draw from public sources. I'm just saying, there's no way to say I'm supposed to handle this by taking a loan. I said we could take the loan if we thought it appropriate and at the same time we were sure that we didn't have unnecessary operating expenses. And I am absolutely sure that we have unnecessary operating expenses. That's exactly the opposite. Just to explain why I shouldn't be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u27	I thank Mr Stanjur. And if we have no one else, Mr Ferjenčík will give the opinion of the pirát.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u28	Thank you for the floor. We took advantage of the paragraph. 58.3 of the Rules of Procedure and I, as a representative of the Pirates in the Committee on Budgets, will give our opinion on the draft budget. The vast majority of the parties sitting in the House do not want a budget provisional for reasonable reasons. The budgetary provisional is making the situation worse for the state authorities, it is not possible to draw on investments as they wish, and the government's budget plan is reasonable by the end of the year. The second thing is that while the budget is usually approved for three months, this time it is mainly discussed because of the elections within three weeks, which does not allow for more significant changes in the budget, which we are aware of. At the same time, we have a situation where a substantial part of this House has already declared in advance that it will support the budget. KDU-ČSL, ČSSD, yes, of course. In this House, the majority of the votes are for budget approval, so the pirát were not even invited to any negotiations that should happen with the budget to support it. With this information, we don't like some specific numbers there. It bothers us that, at a time of economic growth, we have a deficit of 50 billion and we are increasing debt. Pirates support balanced budgets, and especially at a time of huge economic growth, we think that it would be reasonable to propose a budget as a balanced and possibly to make reserves for the worse times that will certainly come, either because of the economic cycle or because we are going to lose money from the European Union, which is currently dragging public budgets. To these things, we are aware that the majority is here, and we consider the proposal to return the government just a gesture that has no real chance of success, and the question is, would anyone do it if they had the chance to succeed? Because we don't agree with the budget, we're not going to support it, but we're not going to support the government's return either. Government, virtually. The coalition that prepared the budget has a majority. Let it be used and approved by the budget, it shall be responsible for it. We're sorry about the increase in debt. We believe that it may eventually be a little smaller than planned. So the pirát stay in both votes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u29	I thank Mr Ferjenčík. President Pavel Bělobrádek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u30	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the KDU-ČSL, I can say that this budget is the result of the coalition compromise on which we participated. As for the gestures that we had in charge, I think we finally made a satisfactory result today. As far as the whole is concerned, there are two reservations about the financing of social services and about education, respectively. teachers in the non-state sector. We will then comment on this by the amendments at second reading. In any case, at first reading, we will definitely support this compromise proposal, with the fact that we think that the budget will turn out better than planned last year and this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u31	I thank Prime Minister Bělobrádek. So let's see if we have anyone with priority rights. I don't see anyone, so we'll start with the speakers in the debate. I will ask Mr Jiří Dolejš, at the same time I will also delete Mrs Kovářová, where I am marked that she is withdrawing, and Mrs Golasowská will prepare herself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr. Control. It has been repeatedly said from both the right and left side that this budget is a compromise, and some say that it is basically more of an artistic part with those political cards to play this, others say that it is basically the result of a very absurd to horrifying and should be thrown away, crumpled and replaced by something far nicer and better. It is a real question of what to do with these feelings, because we have a proposal for a specific law on the table, and the truth is that it could not have been otherwise processed, because the government that essentially ends these days, I mean the government of Bohuslav Sobotka, so for four years it has put forward, this is the fourth in order, it has put forward budgets that have one advantage, and that they have driven on a certain wave of economic boom. If you count the four years, the economy actually went up 14 percent. That's not enough. This is not little, and it is certainly easier to use the allocation redistributive function of public finances in such times, when budget revenues are growing logically, and it is easier to budget and easier to use. On the other hand, it is true that this government has often been drawn up from parties with conflicting ideas and that, in fact, it could not have had any more comprehensive, more consistent budgetary philosophy, and that, therefore, behind the four budgets, including the last one, it may be difficult to find some kind of budgetary philosophy if I have to use a somewhat nobler expression. Of course, the 2018 budget is based on some macroeconomic prediction, and the question is whether this prediction is appropriate, whether income is forecasted more conservatively or more realistic. If you were looking at the passage that evaluates the revised prediction, I mean, in September, when the figures from the statistical office for the last quarter arrived, they were, of course, estimates of GDP, but indicated a 5% growth, so several billion were credited to both income and expenditure. And the assessment of this prediction, i.e. the rate of income growth, is evaluated by most of those institutions that enter the consensual forecast, as rather realistic, not conservative. In previous years this was assessed rather conservatively, those forecasts, some institutions even talked about an optimistic forecast. So that's what I wanted to send. [[16.00 hours]] It has a lot to do with the prediction and approval of basic numbers, where we have left over, how much we will have left and what room we will have for possible budgetary measures during the year. And I will remind you again of the practice of all four years, i.e. all four budgets, 2015, 2016, 2017 and now we have 2018, that in either case the basic, large numbers did not work out. Fortunately, in a positive sense, it did not work out, which means that there was more revenue and that there was less deficit, even in one year it really jumped into a significant plus. I mean the special year 2016, which will not be repeated to that extent. But it's evidence of something. It shows at least how these budgets are compiled, how we're supposed to take these macro-economic bases seriously, because when it happens four times, it almost doesn't seem like a coincidence. It already seems like a certain way of working, where there is an internal reserve in each such budget. At the beginning, the reserve was on debt service, because the situation on the capital markets was changing rapidly, and now we can look for reserves somewhere else, for example, in 2016 it was the consumption of European money. So it's about the quality of the exits. At the same time, the problem is that, of course, when the state final accounts land on our benches, we have a debt from the last parliamentary term, that the state final account for 2016 is not yet negotiated, and we will see the state final account for this year during spring, so there will be, among other things, a settlement of that result, and even if we can say that it is to some extent accounting, it is up to us to decide what we are going to do with it, and if we go more along the path of redemption and achieving some kind of joy from balanced budgets, although I think it is never about some absolute balance, even developed countries are repeatedly indebted, or whether we will help in times of difficulty or in times of political sensitivity, i.e. in times of election, to distribute some extra money. It is true that it is probably the ambition of a good erary administrator to make fiscal efforts not procyclically but balanced. This is served by a structural deficit, i.e. a cyclic-adjusted deficit. And let me just remind you that this structural deficit, for example, is being standardised. in the convergence programme, but also other documents, where there is talk of a ceiling that should not be exceeded: 1% of GDP. Once again, when we look at the past, i.e. the year even 2014 calmly, even if it was Rusnokův's budget essentially, we see that we are not going to get through 1 percent really, but that even though it was an economic conjucture, it once went up, once down. And it's interesting to know why that was. For example, 2014 was an unexpectedly higher structural deficit. You can say that the budget was being prepared by Rusnokův's government or that it was also before the elections. And so it is in 2018, because the materials say that we're going to zoom in on that 1% again, even if it's promised to us within the medium-term horizons that it's going to be better in 2020 and it's going to go down. We'll see about that. But this variation in any case shows that the medium-term outlooks aren't exactly the kind of thing that we can really follow. So it's fluctuations here, but I don't think it's a problem for us to really talk about a terrifying budget that needs to be returned, which is essentially operationally eaten up to the point that it's really necessary to take that week, two, four, and I don't know how many weeks it would be, a budget makeshift, so that the Treasury can rework the budget. It is not only about going through the budget-refund resolution, because the assignment is, of course, flat-rate, but it is about where the money - there was mentioned 22 billion - where you cut it, because the smart cuts, the smart cuts, are looking for a bit complicated and mostly save where there is least resistance. But then sometimes you start a phenomenon called. deferred expenses, that is, you simply return to these expenses when the situation is somewhat more favourable or benevolent. Really clever cuts must be based on certain systemic measures, including, of course, in the field of operation or operation, the normal functioning of the state administration. What is an important element of this budget, I think it has already been said here, if I have listened well, so that we are waiting for a lower drawdown of transfers from the European Union in 2018. This is also related to the transition from 2015 to the new budget period, the capacity to draw, to prepare, etc. But apparently it's a real problem when the drafter is based on the numbers he put there, e.g. only 40 billion are considered in operational programmes. CZK and we have to count on it because, after all, the total number, total investment or capital expenditure, despite the fact that the Czech, i.e. from the point of view of the Czech budget, capital expenditure is slightly higher, which is true, but the total number is simply lower and cannot have an impact on the intensity of investment construction especially in the field of infrastructure projects. Therefore, I also assume that second reading will be somewhat affected by subsidies to the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, the possibility to finance regional infrastructure, etc. It's just part of reality. He certainly gives a budget for good things too in good times, not only does he eat up the money, and I also have to commend him for something, after all even on tripartite September unionists who originally prepared a strike alert, if political representation does not give way, so they said that they were able to live with this budget, that they accepted that their key wage requirements had been taken into account. Of course, on behalf of our constituents, we must also call into question the specific valorisation, including the valorisation of pensions. A number of things did not get here either, although they were promised during the parliamentary term, but logically it could no longer be budgeted during the parliamentary term. So let's see how we deal with it. In any case, I see this as a positive thing, whether these are mandatorial expenses, which, of course, are based on laws and standards, or rather, they are expenditure of an executive or political nature. It's okay, because I don't think we can just be held captive by the accounting idea that when the economy grows, it cuts, and when the crisis is under the boiler, because we're still talking about a different kind of money than the one that reaches the final client, that's basically a citizen. After all, the purchasing power of citizens should reflect the fact that the economy is better off. So when are we supposed to add citizens if not at a time when things are going well? Because when there's a crisis, well, of course you say, unfortunately, but you have to save, stop saving - that's great, so when pensioners are interpreted "stop buying cars, furs and riding on Mallorca" because he sees it through prism, so it's a little more pragmatic and he's interested in more ordinary spending items. So I think this is perfectly fine, and I dare to repeat the economists' argument, so it is not a political argument that even the amount of labour costs is not in the budget with competitiveness, of course it implies some adaptation of our economic structure. We probably have, as you're listening to me, it's obvious that, unlike, for example, our colleagues from the ODS or from the TOP, we have a slightly different budgetary philosophy. [[16.10 hours]] I even think that when revenue in this budget is proposed by 5.2 % larger, with estimated economic growth of 3.1 % - or simple mathematics shows that the tax quota will increase slightly. So I think the activity on the income side could have been even higher. But I understand that this cannot be done without interfering with tax laws. So it follows that we will see for the future. In any case, however, not only for reasons of greater tax return, but also in terms of distribution of tax justice, I simply have to remind our evergreen. And it will echo again, and it will continue to sound that tax progression and greater taxation of big money are more important to us than chasing those little businessmen, employees and so on, or even, as the MP here, directing behind me, Mr Okamura here was thundering at the address of the inadaptable and parasites. I don't think our poor thing is the main parasite. I'm afraid that much more in society are parasites by those who are basically skilled in relation to subsidy and tax manipulation. But I won't be addressed to complicate today's, relatively peaceful, discussion. In essence, I have to end with one conclusion that we agreed on today's parliamentary club, or I am also de facto interpreting the club's position, even though I did not aspire to use the benefits of the relevant provisions of the Rules of Procedure. I waited because, after all, I was happy to listen to the previous speakers. Let me sum this up - that although there is no voting coalition in this House in terms of individual laws, including the budget, there is no tripartite party that is already in some direct or indirect form incorporated into government, but there is a draft budget that has been submitted by the old, ending government, that cannot be changed - starting with the fact that laws cannot be changed and so on - cannot be changed. If there is a proposal for a return, a recast, I must say that we will vote against this proposal because it lacks meaning and I read it more as a certain political gesture, not that it should pass. And as for the vote itself on the proposal at first reading, that is, the basic figures, so I think it's estimated that the old coalition will approve it, maybe somebody from the SPD will come along, we'll see. But it's clear to us. Therefore, we do not want to take political responsibility for how this has been handled. It's a neutral matter for us. But all the more we will be watching in that little time period - that is, basically, that week, two by 19 December, when we will be in the finals - will be discussing the amendments. Because I wouldn't want this proposal that isn't ours to be any worse. But if it's better, of course, we're prepared for a certain degree of helpfulness, or if you want to spend state-building, because I think it's better to be. Someone here was talking about the art of the possible. We do not want the impossible, but this proposal is certainly not on the ceiling of its possibilities, although I know that we can only discuss on the basis of some structural partial changes, not change the concept of the budget and change the basic figures. So much for me and the KSČM faction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u33	I thank Mr Dolejš. I have two priority rights here, so Minister Ivan Pilný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I, myself and myself, have been invited by President Stanjura to respond. I have patiently listened to all political clubs except ČSSD, but I will certainly address their comments as well. So I would try to react briefly to what was said here. I'll start from the end. The first thing that concerns the structural deficit of the government sector. The projected structural deficit of the government sector for 2017 is plus 0.5 and the same is in 2018 - plus 0.5. With the exception of small states of Europe, such as Luxembourg and Estonia, we are the best in the European Union. This means that we manage very reasonably, perhaps too conservatively. As regards the revenue side of the state budget. The revenue side of the state budget responded during the negotiations on the state budget to economic development, i.e. to improving economic development predictions and also to improved tax collection, which significantly exceeds the growth of the economy. Of course, both have limits, both the economy and the fulfilment of tax obligations, which are simply exhausted and stable in some way. He won't go on forever. There are also signs that the Czech economy is starting to overheat. The Czech National Bank also knows that, which started to raise interest rates. There are 200,000 vacant jobs missing on the labour market. There are the problems of the European Union that have already been mentioned and which will put pressure on cohesion funds. That is, in 2018, I still understand the situation - and the budget is so built, and that is why it is called realistic - in this way. I would like to thank the KDU-ČSL and its Chairman for their commitment to the budget, which is actually the work of consensus, not the compromise of coalition government. With regard to the concern of the pirát of debt, it is a good look at state debt statistics, which have more or less stabilised. In September, the government debt was even lower. The state debt in 2018 will depend very much on how the state budget will be implemented. Although there is a planned deficit of 50 billion. We have here - and Mr Dolejš mentioned it - also a pending state final account from 2016 when the surplus was due to the European money. So I wouldn't worry about raising the government's debt. Even maybe some people won't agree with me, but I would be in favour of the fact that as long as money is cheap - and so far we're still borrowing with negative interest - so I would really borrow, but assuming that we would invest the money, not eat it, as almost every government has done so far unfortunately. So the mantra deficit and the state debt have its limits. And Mr Farský has also warned here, and I completely agree that we are very little prepared to see European money disappear very soon and we will have to finance a lot of things, not only the mandatorial expenditure, but also investment expenditure from the state budget. And that's going to be a big problem, and I agree that much hasn't happened yet. As for President Stanjura's comments, Uncle Scrooge... Well, you know, I was starting to discuss the state budget with the fact that the state budget deficit was 100 billion. bigger. I've cut all the operating expenses that could be cut off, and it's still 50 billion on the deficit. When I look at the number of workers who have been criticized here - I now have to speak for the 2018 budget for which I am responsible as the Finance Minister - I have quoted the figures of the increase here. It's 8 503 seats, but they're no officers. It is 6 012 places in regional education, 520 seats chapter of the Ministry of Justice, 351 police members and 142 people to secure the agenda of the Czech Social Security Administration. My colleagues from the government will confirm that when they came up with any increase in the workforce, including my own ministry, where the active balance is plus 25, they hit so hard, especially because the jobs are not even occupied as they are being designed. So much for being Secretary of Finance as Uncle Scrooge. Sorry, I have to take a look at the other comments I received. [[He's flipping through the materials.]] As far as grant titles are concerned, the Ministry of Finance has absolutely minimal grant titles. That means we don't have a complete overview of what grant titles are and what it looks like. But I would like to remind you and look at the chapter of the Ministry of Regional Development, which was cut by 10 billion. This is mainly because the Ministry of Regional Development draws up parallel programmes from the state budget, which duplicate the money from the European Union in some cases. And those municipalities or those applicants are simply going for it, because it is much easier for them than to exhaust the very administratively demanding and very heavily controlled expenditures that are from European funds. That is why the drawing of European funds is also as bad as it is now. So the Ministry of Regional Development - and we had big discussions - kind of got away with it, and a lot of those grant titles won't be because they just won't. I also do not want to remind you that, thanks to the budgetary determination of taxes, we have sent much more money to both regions and municipalities. Or I'll remind you of that. I can't agree with the so-called drawing of some billions into the state budget on the revenue side to make it work. I simply reacted very conservatively and realistically to the growth of the economy and to the growth of the tax collection. [[16.20 hours]] As far as investment expenditure is concerned, I have already stated once again that investment expenditure has increased very little, but still some of the state budget. And this state budget is also characterised by the fact that it respects the slow pace of drawing European money. European money will always have a positive balance, i.e. If there is a demand and more European money will start to be drawn, it is just a cash flow question that we simply have to catch up on, but of course the state budget will respond to it and the results will, of course, be favourable if the balance of European money is significantly positive. As far as investment in science, research and innovation is concerned, it is an issue that we have dealt with here in the House many times. On the one hand, spending on science, research and innovation has increased, you can say that it is not enough, but you must also realise that it is not in them, for example. counted 4 to 5 billion. tax reliefs that are drawn by hundreds of companies that use it for science, research and innovation. That never counted. There's not much to be honest. The other problem is that the metrics that accompany spending on science, research and innovation are quite weird. We have centers of excellence here, I'm going to name a supercomputer in Ostrava, which has already cost over a billion and is outdated, while the Izraelec are going to count to the United States. No one dares to build such things. So a lot of money that goes on science, research and innovation, doesn't go on science, research and innovation, and they're just consumed. That's what needs to be realized. And I would strongly ask that the new Chamber of Deputies make an amendment to Act 130 on Science, Research and Innovation and include and make new criteria for assessing science, research and innovation, to divide them between humanities, where there will be other, basic research, where the criteria will be different, and applied research, where these expenditures should clearly be taken as investments. I can agree with what President Kalousek said here that, unfortunately, the state administration supports quantity over quality. But here we need to change the law of service. We've concreted it so much that it's true. We should certainly have fewer people to pay better than people across the board who simply have basic prerequisites for function, i.e. paper that they obtain at a private school, and then years in state or public administration. This is how the service law is concreted, and we did it ourselves. The opening of public tenders that we requested as the YES movement did not go through several votes, unfortunately many of them were from a number of ODS members. As regards the first contribution of President Tomio Okamura, it should be noted that the deficit of 50 billion. is a marketing move and that we will then look good when the deficit is smaller and, on the other hand, say how Europe is threatened, what is happening in Europe, how Brexit is here, and the other things that are going to ruin Europe, and we are members of the European Union and it will come to us... We have to choose - either one or the other. Both can't just be true. So it's about as short as I was able to respond to the state budget. And I'm saying again, I'm going back to the fact that it was the art of the possible. I'm not jumping for that budget. It's my first and last state budget I've drawn up. Its fundamental problem is that the priorities of the state budget were drawn up at every meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and then at each meeting of the government and the Minister of Finance, all that remains is to respect these things, because they are simply encrypted in legislation or encoded in contracts that cannot be changed. So once again, I'm going to repeat that there's been a whole bunch of positive things that have been done from adding teachers to three billion. to education, money for science, research and innovation, to maintain a certain level of investment, to open up space for the possibility of drawing European money. For this reason, I consider this budget, which, as Minister of Finance, I now present in the name of today, or tomorrow, coalition governments in demise, to be a budget that is reasonable and which, of course, the Chamber of Deputies can correct and certainly correct. At the same time, I also recognise that the time to discuss this budget is extremely small and reduces the possibilities for correction. That's probably all I could say to you as a response to the comments I have heard here at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u35	I thank the Minister. I would like to ask Mr Ferjenčík's factual comment. I would merely recapitulate that Mr Stanjura will follow with a factual remark, I have two more priority rights here, President Filip, President Chvojka, and then only duly signed up. So, Mr. Ferjenčík, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u36	Thank you. It's just a factual response to the deficit, as the Minister said, that if we were to build an infrastructure that was lacking, it would be justified. I agree with that, but unfortunately, this is not the way the proposed budget goes. I think we'd be in the middle of a debate. I would just like to point out that the pirát realize that if we really supported these investments, in these favourable conditions, where we can draw on the European Union in addition, that would make sense. But we're afraid that in this case, it's more of an operating expense.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u37	I thank Mr Ferjenčík and Mr Stanjura, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u38	I would also like to respond to the Minister's speech. Master political work, avoided the specific questions, praised himself, hat down. But, Minister, if you're not telling the truth, I'm going to tell you to tell the truth. The original draft service law came from the coalition. We made a little improvement after some brake. Not as much as we wanted. We suggested opening up the public service to outsiders, and we didn't find most of it for that. I admit that most of your club was with us, but don't say we didn't support it. The opposite is true. They were our amendments. We didn't find most of it. And we bear the consequences to this day when the public administration is concreted, but much less than it would have been in the original proposal put forward by your coalition here. First of all. Two. I don't know if former Rector Vondrák noticed that what he prides himself on in our country is actually pointless and outdated. So try to make it clear, gentlemen, inside the ANO movement. So far, I've trusted the former Rector of the Mining College that it's cool, but now I hear it's outdated, it's useless. So just so we know what the truth is. I don't really know, but maybe the former Rector... Maybe it was cool when he was a rector, and now it's useless when the rector isn't anymore. That's possible, but I really wouldn't want to judge it that way. And I call it a view from Prague and not a view from our region. And I'm sorry, we're a little sensitive in our region regardless of the political shirt. I understand that the other regions are envious. I quite understand that. So be so handy, you can have a supercomputer somewhere, I don't know. I know, for example. At the Department of Transport, while I was still there, we did a lot of useful things in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport and the University of Mining. And I say this despite the fact that Mr Vondrák is my political opponent today. [[Time warning]] [[unintelligible]] Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u39	Thank you. And with a factual remark, I have Mr Vondrák and will be prepared with another factual remark by the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u40	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Ostrava computer is not obsolete. At that point, it is the 80th largest in the world, and it is the most busy in Europe. Thank you. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u41	I thank Mr Vondrák and another point of fact, Minister Pilný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u42	Thank you. First, to Prime Minister Stanjur. I remember when I went to see your chairman, who's not here right now - or is - and I convinced him to open up the selection procedures. And I got the answer that maybe it's possible in the lowest functions, otherwise it's not. I remember. I was standing here by this chair. But it's passé, it's useless, the service bill is miserable. We have asked the Economic Committee to revise it several times, and it has not yet, because it really prefers the quantity above quality. I don't think there's any point in... If that's the case, we can talk about it offline. As far as the computer's concerned, I wasn't expressing the opinion of any movement, I was expressing my opinion. I spent some years in that information technology, and I know that in 1996 a supercomputer was made in the United States that was taking up the area of a football field that had the power of a village and had the speed to overcome it in seven years by this small Sonny chip. [[shows approx. 7 cm]] Even Izraelec go to the United States to count. Because building supercomputers that are outdated and that are very difficult today, at the time of distributed computer systems, to get some tasks - and the competition is great, especially where they have money, which is, above all, the United States - I do not consider it a reasonable opinion. But it's my opinion as a person who actually spent most of his career in information technology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u43	Minister, thank you. Do we still have a request for a factual comment? We don't. So with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Filip. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u44	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I am in a good situation because Jiří Dolejš said the position of the KSČM MEP. So allow me to make a few comments, which I could not make in two minutes of factual remarks. One thing is certain, and I am glad that the responsibility for the budget is taken up by the political parties that built it, and I hope that they will also be willing to bear responsibility for the State Final Account for 2017, because it will be their management. I am partly satisfied with the budget - Jiří Dolejš said what positives we see in the state budget - and partly dissatisfied because the development of the state budget is really different from what was expected. Firstly, as far as programmes are concerned, it is obvious that not all programmes that have been negotiated with the European Union or which the government has set under its priorities are being implemented. One of those priorities is the question of occupying offices and creating new offices, because if anyone complains, and Mr. Miroslav Kalousek here before us said that he simply does not care how many more people are in office, I say that they would not have increased if we had not created those authorities. This is very important whether we need an office that is looking for a building or whether I realize what the structure of the state is, what its responsibilities are, what the responsibilities of the various departments are, and whether there is something in that department that should work or do the task. This is usually the worst, because it is easy to come up with a solution: we know that the Office will solve the problem. No, he's not gonna solve it, because we have laws for most of the questions here. I no longer hate the statements of journalists when they say 'no legislation'. That's what I usually turn off the TV. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is up to us whether we are able to review some of the issues that have been decided here in the past. The principle of discounting applies, which means that we do not have to feel bound, even if some of us sat here in the past and could vote in favour for some reasons, and now we see that this task has not been accomplished. So why stick to the mistake we made? And such authorities, I'd like to see several of them. And it's probably our job as well. In this context, I am very pleased, and I must add this to the good of the proposal that we want to deal with the service law. I disagree with what Zbyněk Stanjura said here in his previous speech in a factual remark. That was completely different in 2014. There was no need to worry about the service bill here. The 2002 law was much better. And it was enough if the then government, or the current government, that still sits here, lasted and left it from 1. 1. 2015 just pay. And we had half the problems we have now. And now for what really bothers me. You see, I have one great advantage, which is also a great disadvantage, which is that I remember some things and that some promises here have been made not only in electoral programs, but also in government statements, and it has also been said that this will be done honestly. Let me say that we are also seeing today that some tendering procedures did not take place, that the ministers did not take the time to do so, and that we are therefore meeting again with a problem that we could have had long ago solved. I'd have to ask, why did we have to postpone the call for a toll system? Why, then, do we not have any other income as a state long ago? I guess no one wants to answer that because we prefer it out of comfort - I apologize to the absent Minister of Transport for saying that now that he's not here, but I really didn't see any problem when he got into office, that he couldn't write the tender and we could have totally different revenues. And about the income here, excuse me, so few people have mentioned it so far. Not to mention that the tax system that gives revenue to the state budget has not changed significantly. And when it changed, it was such a pathetic correction that it didn't even mean a large increase in income, even a reduction in income, when we reduced value added tax to printed matter. And you know what bothers me the most? That we don't have the budget to add to hospitals, to schools. We're talking about something special here. But the state has found enough resources to buy something to dispose of. I could not respond directly to Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, so I dare say it now. You know, I know the situation at Lety very well. Finally, I am elected in the South Bohemia Region, I go there regularly and I have no problem visiting the place, unlike other people who like to talk about it, and I have not yet seen them there on any occasion, let alone 9 or 8 May. The AGPI facility is not on any of the land that was in the original location of the labor camp. And if there was a call for us to indemnify in any way how the Čech did it against Rom people, don't be angry with me, it seems to me a challenge beyond reality. I will not in any way really escalate the discussion of the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 because the purchase is to be made this year. So far, it hasn't approved 100 percent of the shareholders. And I would like it if the minority shareholders didn't block the record of the assets, but I would like the finance minister to decide not to sign the contract, or if he has to sign it, because he has to respect the government's resolution that he's going to at least sue for the relative nullity of the contract. You know why? Because I can't imagine my money, and that's not the money of the government of the Czech Republic, that's taxpayers' money, those who honestly had to take them out of their taxes, and we will eliminate... For $450 million, we'll buy a business to liquidate it for another $200 million. I don't know if we have $650 million to fire. I would like to see the 650 million on how, for example, a hospital is modernizing itself or that we are giving the funds, for example, for research and innovation. But the lies I've heard here really bother me. I would really recommend to everyone who's talking about it to go check it out. It's a dignified place. It's dignified. We've put a lot of resources into this. And I'm convinced the state isn't supposed to buy production equipment to destroy it. When the state buys something, it should be something that it can use and can return to its citizens in some real state responsibilities. I am deeply convinced of this because someone will have to replace the production capacity. Maybe they'll find willing hands in neighboring Bavaria, in the Federal Republic of Germany, that they'll be happy to deliver the pigs to us. So who's gonna continue to produce with us? Are we gonna complain that we're all dirty? Or what do we do? I consider this an immoral move. Not a moral move, but an immoral move. And I can't imagine the state doing anything like that. I really can't imagine that for the bailout of an enterprise that is important, even though it should be privatized, the state will buy out some production capacity, save it, and then either continue to run it or sell it, because it is not convinced that he is the best organizer of the job. But buying something for liquidation, we're really beyond what the state has to afford. [[16.40 hours]] So I'll take the liberty of making such a small challenge. Please, let's go back to some of the promises that were here. For example, to have a bank in the hands of the state. Among other things, it was a promise, a public promise. There was even an excellent chance when the Postal Savings Bank ran out of time to rent for ČSOB. I don't understand why we let her go. It's like a myth. What did the government of the Czech Republic do to replace it? After all, without a single grain of risk that ČSOB would turn to international arbitration, we could get back the chance for the state to have its banking institution in common competition with other banks. And I could give many such examples. So I will take the liberty, because I did not have to say a fundamental political position when Jiří Dolejš said it, to say yes, surely this state budget is better than many state budgets in the past, but it is not yet the state budget, which would have had some significant support for the KSČM club without changing its second reading. We really have other priorities, and I would like to include at least some of them in the state budget, because it would be beneficial for the citizens of this state. This would be beneficial from the perspective of new revenues, but also possible new expenditures, including the redemption of state debt. Because I would hate for the Czech Republic to end up in the hands of foreign banks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u45	I thank President Filip. I have two factual points here. Now please, Mr. Ivan Jáč. Please. [[Off microphone: There's been a technical error. The MP doesn't want to get out.]] I'm canceling your point of order. We have another factual point here. Minister Pilný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u46	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, since I was once again called upon to do some activity, I have to respond. As far as Camp Lety is concerned, I've been there several times. The place is in pretty good shape, it is visited mostly by politicians on some occasion when they talk about it. Of course, piggyback around here is wrong, and it's a good thing something's done about it. On the other hand, it must also be noted that the price we pay for this is not only the price we pay directly in the contract, but it will also be the price for the remediation of the territory, it is just extremely high. When this was discussed in the government, it was said that it was in the public interest, and if anyone is very interested in something happening, then the other side always gets some premium. I don't quite understand why we did this, because negotiating with the owners could have been a lot tougher. The court estimate is much lower than what we're going to pay. I pointed that out to the government, I said there may be something in the public interest, but it is also in the public interest to take care of public money. So I left the government meeting that voted on Lety and I didn't vote. Then, of course, the Minister of Finance must do what is in the treaties. The matter took place under a secret regime regarding the amount, because it was before the elections, then the amount declassified, the contract is simply signed. Now the Minister of Finance can do nothing but pay the amount, which has also happened. But I raised objections to the government, and as Finance Minister, I defended public money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u47	I thank Minister Pilný. Do we have a point of order? We don't. With priority for the debate, President Chvojka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to briefly comment on the draft state budget for the first reading we have here today. The ČSSD will, of course, support this proposal at first reading. After all, it is the budget on which the coalition government under the leadership of the ČSSD agreed. In our opinion, this is a good budget, balanced, accentuates the current economic growth rate and contains several key priorities for the ČSSD, such as public sector salaries, health, social services, raising pensions or increasing investment in science and research. We will go to second reading with two main priorities, which we have unfortunately failed to push into the compromise version of the proposal. In particular, we will propose an increase in money for social services, where funds are currently missing. We will also propose to increase teacher salaries by 15 per cent and to other non-teaching workers by 10 per cent. As far as social services are concerned, we will propose a transfer of 3.5 billion for social services. Crowns. If the essential parameters of the proposed budget do not change, we will, of course, support it at third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u49	I thank Prime Minister Chvojka. Let's see if we have any facts. We don't, so we're getting into a properly registered debate. I'll ask Mrs. Golasowská. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Have a nice afternoon, colleagues. Let me also comment on the state budget for 2018. The social services budget, as has already been said several times, lacks about 3 billion. Crowns. During this year, the social partners, the Union of Employment Unions of the Czech Republic, the Trade Union of Health and Social Welfare, the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, have repeatedly acted on behalf of 2.5 thousand. social service providers and 100 thousand. employees in social services with the Government of the Czech Republic on wage growth in social services in order to stop employees leaving in social services and personnel collapse of social services in the Czech Republic. Together, they managed to negotiate an increase in basic salaries and compensation by means of state subsidies and wage-rewarding organisations. This step led to a partial staff stabilization and a halt to the departure of these workers. However, the government's draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 does not reflect these changes. This is a significant threat to social service providers. In 2017, a total of 11.25 billion were distributed to social service providers. Crowns. However, only 11.6 billion are proposed in the draft State Budget for 2018. Crowns. In a situation where the State increases wages by its regulation and thus causes wage increases throughout the sector, but at the same time does not reflect this increase as the dominant donor of this sector in the increase in support, the lack of money must be addressed by social service providers. Given the growing shortage of workers in social services, an increase in salaries and wages in social services is essential, but it is also necessary to ensure its financial cover. Otherwise, social service providers would have no other solution but to reduce staff status and to close the social services capacity. In view of the global increase in demand for social services, reducing the capacity of social services is a clear risk. In order to reverse this undesirable situation, it is necessary to increase the entry of the specific mandatory indicator of Chapter 313 - Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, namely non-investment, non-dose transfers, by an amount of 3 billion. CZK, i.e. set aside a total amount of CZK 14.9 billion for social services from the state budget. Crowns. [[16.50 hours]] I would like to draw further attention to the situation that occurred in social services five years ago, in 2012, when social services were being discharged in large staff, because they did not have funding for the salaries of these workers, and the situation was really difficult. I would like to stress that there are really growing numbers of clients in social services, because we are getting older, we are growing older, there are increasing numbers of people who use residential services, services with a special regime, people with dementia, with Alzheimer's, but there are also growing numbers of families with field services, families where parents actually enjoy addictive substances, whether individually or combined, i.e. drugs, alcohol, and medicines, and children live in these families, and these families need to be worked with. Outpatient services are also at risk, such as counseling, counseling for victims of domestic violence, counseling for addicts and also civil counseling, which actually solves the debt problems of people who really do not have enough in our Republic. Therefore, I would ask all of you across the political spectrum to support, in fact, the amendments that we, as KDU-ČSL, will submit to increase this amount to social services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u51	I would like to thank Mrs Golasowská and the others for the proper debate, please, Mr Skopeček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u52	Thank you very much. I'm sure I won't be long. After all, you've heard the ODS' position. I will comment on some of the biggest, most pressing problems I see in this budget. The first thing that needs to be said about is, without a doubt, the amount of revenue, the amount of expenditure and the amount of deficit, because, after all, today we will approve, or after first reading, the basic budgets. I mean, the budget was made up when the Ministry of Finance assumed an economic growth of 3.1 percent. Even when the government approved the budget, probably without the current finance minister, we pointed out that even with a growth of 3.1 percent, the 50-billion-dollar deficit is really hard to justify, even in the context that growth was not one-off, it was not the first year, but that the Czech Republic has been experiencing relatively decent economic growth for many years. Indeed, at this point in time, there is no justification for submitting a 50-billion-dollar deficit at all. Since then, macro-economic data has improved. In presenting the budget, the Minister mentioned the figures around unemployment growth and inflation, which will be around the target, very low unemployment and even faster growth than the one assumed by the government or the Ministry of Finance when the budget was drawn up. After such a speech, in my opinion, there would have to be one single answer, namely that the Minister will propose a balanced budget, because otherwise it does not make any sense at all, to praise macro-economic data and to say how the Czech Republic will succeed in the future, and to propose a budget as if we were in some deep economic recession. What is definitely worth mentioning, and it has already been said, is the amount of the tax quota. Instead of reacting to the state's income rising - and we can tell ourselves here behind the speaker's counter why it is, we can argue, someone will add it to dominant economic growth, probably the previous government will seduce it, or it will do good to those measures such as control reports or electronic sales records. But it is simply necessary to say that the revenue side of the budget is growing, growing very significantly, and we have heard when approving electronic records of sales or control reports that taxes will be reduced, that these measures will allow the government to reduce taxes for Czech companies and Czech entrepreneurs. There's no such thing. While we have electronic records of sales, we have control reports, and we are bothering entrepreneurs and businessmen with this regulation, we will still be pulling more from taxpayers' money. While last year, in 2017, the tax quota was 34 percent, it will rise to 34.4 next year. In 2015, just for the sake of illustration, it was at 32.6 %. So the redistribution of this state is growing, the ambition to pull more money out of taxpayers' pockets is certainly not something we would agree with, and it is necessary to say it out loud here, alongside the technical figures on the state budget, that it is simply growing, and this government, this minister, this prime minister, has the ambition to pull more money out of taxpayers' pockets. Another area worth stopping in is the mandatorial expenses. Mandatorial expenses, that's evergreen when you approve each budget. Mandator spending has been growing for years, of course reducing fiscal freedom and fiscal space for any government to do some kind of active fiscal policy, whether left-wing, right-wing, past, future. But these mandatory expenses, they need to be pointed out, they are growing even during the economic growth that we are experiencing. I would understand it, and it would be understandable if mandatorial spending were to grow at a time of recession, where it would be necessary to increase unemployment benefits or to receive more people, but we are growing mandatorial spending, albeit from year to year, very gently, but they are growing, but they are growing at a time of really very decent economic growth. And we are already hearing a number of economists say that we are at the top of the economic cycle, that it is not unlikely that the figures will be lower in future years, and that, of course, the spending side of the budget and the mandatorial spending will get into even more trouble. The budget, both the deficit and the increasing share of the mandatorial expenditure, says one thing. It is, in fact, the prosecution of an end-of-the-year government that has resigned today that it has failed to do anything positive with the spending side of the budget. This government has managed to do a lot with the revenue side of the budget, prepared the EET, approved the audit reports - and I say, we can argue here about the extent to which it was a positive or less positive measure - but it absolutely, absolutely abandoned the expenditure side of the budget, and the deficit and the growth of the mandatorial expenditure is the result. It is all the more reprehensible that the spending side has been abandoned in a time of decent economic weather, when the less pleasant things about the change and structure of the spending party are doing more easily, is small unemployment, rising wages, any government savings do not hurt citizens and taxpayers as they will hurt when such changes are realized in times of worse economic weather. I'm sure it's worth mentioning the fact that capital spending is falling. I could still understand that the government wants to pull more money out of taxpayers' pockets to build roads, highways, city bypasses, invest in new technologies, faster Internet, or, I don't know, any priority we'd make up here. But that's not the case. When you look at the budget, capital spending is falling, capital spending, and it has already been said here today, it is below what the right-wing government has been able to invest in in much worse economic weather, virtually. for the economic recession that came here from the Euro-American part of the world. If you look at the budget, instead of capital spending, spending on the operational nature is increasing, the number of civil servants is increasing. And we don't lie to each other, they're not just soldiers, teachers, cops, and this type of civil servants that we'd look at more at at peace, but when we look at individual departments, the Ministry of Local Development, the Ministry of Finance, the employment offices, there's an increase of up to hundreds of thousands of employees. The state continues to swell, swelling by 30,000 civil servants over the last few years. Therefore, I do not feel that the citizens of the Czech Republic have seen any positive in this. I do not think that public services have improved to this extent in order to appreciate this increase. [[17,00 hours]] For all these reasons, of course, we will not vote in favour of this budget. At second reading, we will definitely come up with a number of amendments. I'm just explaining why we're not returning him to rework. I've been thinking about it a lot. I am not so afraid of the provisional budget, if the provisional budget were to be paid, virtually. According to him, the state would manage only for a short period of time, in the order of days or weeks. Of course, we must avoid budgetary commissions that would take months to destabilize the Czech Republic's economy. But at a time when it would take a week, two, three, some kind of time frame like this, I think if there was a chance of redoing the state budget and a chance of getting a much better state budget, I think it would be worth a budget commission. However, if we were to vote today, we are returning the budget to the same minister, the same people who prepared it. And I'm afraid, when I see the draft state budget, there's a risk that we might get a budget even worse than what we have today. If I were to end my performance, I would only recommend to the Minister that he avoid the devil with Mikuláš today, because he will not receive any candy for such a budget. I'd rather be afraid he'll get coal or the devil will even take him to hell. The budget is certainly not good, and I ask the future government to approach this much more responsibly and to start making structural changes on the spending side and not just on the economic cycle, as the previous government did. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u53	Good afternoon. We are continuing the general debate. With a point of fact, Minister Pilný is registered.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u54	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to say, as Finance Minister, I wasn't really expecting any gift from Mikuláš today or anything like that. I've been expecting cogs from the right, from the left, that's been fulfilled, but that's the destiny of the Treasury Secretary. I would just like to, because apparently Mr Skopeček did not listen very much, repeat that we are discussing the state budget of 2018. And I've already quoted here twice where civil servants grow - both in the police and in regional education, etc. So I'm not going to repeat where the increase is. All other increases in all resorts including finance have been cut to the bone. With regard to capital expenditure, once again, I repeat, for the fourth time, that capital expenditure from the state budget, albeit slightly, but still rising. They are falling because we do not draw money from the European Union, from European subsidies. If that is the case, capital spending will increase. Furthermore, I would like to say that, unfortunately, mandatory spending is also rising during the period of economic growth, because the population is ageing regardless of economic growth. I don't know if it's a thank-you or a regret, but it is. So the increase in mandatorial spending will continue in the period of economic growth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u55	Thank you. With another factual remark, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u56	I'll take the Minister's word for it. I know you've already said twice that the number of employees is in education, above all. But they're not all teachers. Don't tell me it's 6,000 teachers. Well, then, why don't you give us the number of teachers and how many other teachers there are? First of all. And secondly, yes, it is true that capital spending is growing slightly. But the total expenditure without expenditure covered by the EU budget is 1.3 belligerent. CZK 1,300 billion, approximately, about 6 billion. less. And out of that, capital spending, as it grows, is 55 billion. Well, that's pretty rusty, isn't it? Fifty-five out of 1,300. That's not even five percent. And that's supposed to be for the investment budget? Not even 5% of total expenditure without EU-funded expenditure. I don't know, we call it something else. Yes, that's the magic of the statistics. You're right, it's a little better than 2017. But 2017 was a lousy year. Now it's just miserable, if not completely miserable. Fifty-five billion at a time of economic growth from Czech national sources in investment really is not a big number. I see two captains here right now, so count the capital expenditures on 14 regions, and I'm sure you'll get a higher number than 55 billion without studying the budgets, so let me guess. That 14 regional budgets have an investment number greater than 55 billion that we have in the state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u57	Thank you. I don't see another factual point. The debate is attended by Mrs Aulická.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Hello, colleagues, colleagues. I would also like to comment on the discussion of the State budget for 2018 and on the social area, namely the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Here the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia will present at least two amendments that we see as essential in this area. This is an area of social services where we will demand, and we all know that for KSČM it is a priority every year, an increase in funds for social services from 11.6 billion. the amount of EUR 14,9 billion resulting from the Government's resolutions adopted in 2017 and, in particular, in the field of wage increases. The reason for the approved government resolution was mainly an escalating situation in social services and, above all, a halt to the mass departures of employees and a stabilization of personnel status in this area. After considerable efforts by the Czech Health and Social Welfare Union, the Association of Regions, but also thanks to long-term efforts and arguments and appeals to the Committee on Social Policy and attic The Chamber of Deputies was approved by the government to increase wage growth by up to 23 percent. Originally, however, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs came up with a proposal for an increase of only 13.5%, which was subsequently overwrought by the then Minister of Finance, Mr Babiš, that he would find money in his resort for an increase of 23 percent. Unfortunately, this is not reflected in the draft state budget presented, which we consider to be a non-professional and perhaps once again deliberate burden on the budgets of the regions and municipalities, which already largely have to subsidise social services from their own resources. The Committee of the Council of the Czech Association of Regions for Social Affairs also asks the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure sufficient financing of social services in 2018 in connection with the increase in wages and salaries from November 2017. Here we must point out that we do not really understand the approach in drawing up the budget, because the necessary increase in finance was not taken into account at all because of the government decision. The current government's demise with this proposal makes it clear that it has made a decision for the benefit of the citizens, but it also says that it is distancing itself from their financial cover. The Ministry of Finance only found funds for about one year. And then take care of the regions and cities, we don't care anymore. The second priority in this social area is for us to increase the subsidy for the exercise of social law protection for children, which is given to municipalities with extended scope. In 2017, a subsidy of 1.3 billion was granted. CZK and for 2018 it is only 1,089 billion. It is a resort that primarily deals with the care of vulnerable children, who are abused, abused and threatened at the upbringing. Setting new, higher standards for the performance of this activity also brought with it the necessary increased number of employees, who are in direct practice most needed. The Ústí or Moravian-Silesian region could tell you the story. Therefore, we will appeal when discussing the state budget to leave the amount of the subsidy, such as in 2017. Thank you for your attention. And maybe I would just add that I was quite surprised by the attitude of KDU and ČSSD because, in one word, they say that the budget is okay, on the other hand, they are proposing amendments to social services and increases to the same extent as we are proposing. Then I say to myself, don't be mad at me, but how did you prepare or prepare the budget when you know there are such big flaws and mistakes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u59	Thank you. The debate is also attended by President Kalousek. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u60	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me just a brief question about the Minister of Finance asking if he could be answered. After I proposed our resolution that the government should at least back to the level of this June in its current expenditures, that is, from the budget, whose spending is planned over 1 trillion 300 billion, to save at least 22.4 billion, a few words have been said here that in those 20 days smart cuts cannot be made, that only deferred spending can be made and that it would not be effective work anyway. I therefore consider it fair to give at least one guide to the effective work and it is based on the following question, which concerns the number of civil servants discussed so much. It has already been said several times that since the right-wing government ended, the number of civil servants has increased by almost 40,000 if we count the prediction for next year. Dramatic numbers are mainly 2017 and 2018. For 2017, for the year ending, the government budgeted and spent additional wage for 22 574 civil servants. In 2017, we have a budget of 22 574 civil servants more than we had in 2016. My question to the Minister is simple. How many of those tables of the 22 574 are actually physically occupied, and how many are empty, even though the departments consume wage resources for them? The same question also concerns the 2018 budget. Although a large part - and that exact number I would like to hear from you, Minister, because The Ministry of Finance is responsible for systemization - so although much of the 22 574 seats are not occupied, the government wants money from the Chamber of Deputies for another 8 503 employees next year! How many will be occupied? And if I just take these two years, we're talking about 30,000 civil servants, where maybe only half or 60 percent, or 70 percent, I don't know, that's the question, it's supposed to be physically occupied. But for those empty spaces, chapter administrators will draw wage money and spend it. Is that what you really want? Colleagues, the Chamber of Deputies is releasing this money to the government. Do you really want to release her money to places that aren't physically occupied? And similar so-called smart cuts, where it's not delayed consumption, I could suggest ten more, but I don't want to delay, and I want to do one of these examples here. Minister, you are responsible for the systemization. Please answer us how many of the 22 574 seats are physically occupied and how many, in your opinion, will be physically occupied at the end of the year of the 30 thousand increases for the summers of 2017 and 2018. Probably 100 percent, because you want wage money to be 100 percent of these places and you want to cut them out of the budget, so you're proposing that budget. But we all know that's not true. Now the question is whether the Chamber of Deputies wants to give it to the government or not, i.e. whether it wants to carry out its duties as a sovereign and a guardian of public funds, or not, or simply retaliates, whether they do what they want with the money. Well, the people aren't there! So they spend it, they give it to someone else. That's our position, that's our constitutional responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u61	Thank you. With a factual remark, Minister Pilný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u62	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I won't delay too much, of course I don't know the exact number, but I do know that there are over 1,800 employees at the Ministry of the Interior, and there are also a number of vacant posts in other ministries. All I have to say is that we have been very responsible, because, on the Prime Minister's proposal, we have also reduced the unused expenditure of the previous years, including wage claims for individual ministries, by 50 per cent, and we have put them in the state budget in order to maintain the deficit of 50 per cent. That's the first point. Second point. I know it's common practice that just vacant jobs, the wage costs just dissolve in ministries, so that they create some differentiation between those workers who, according to the Service Act, aren't well enough possible. I'm not saying it's a good practice, but it just is. Speculation about how many vacant posts will be in 2018 is pure speculation. This is likely based on what the labour market situation looks like. This creates a great deal of room for possible budgetary measures on individual ministries, because the reserve will be there, and the unused expenditure on ministries is from other budget chapters, so there is a reserve that can be worked with over the year. But the responsible finance minister cannot include speculation in the state budget that requires a change of behaviour and that also speculate on how the labour market may develop. This is the part that we did when we drew up... or I did it in the drawing up of the state budget, just as I fundamentally opposed any increase in jobs that was not given by legislation or some quasi-mandatory expenditure, and that brought new workers into the public administration, and that's what the budget shows. I've already quoted the numbers here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u63	Thank you. With another factual remark, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u64	Forgive me, Minister, but the word reserve only knows the law for an item of government budget reserve, the amount of which is required 0.33 percent of the expenditure from the state budget. Any other reserve number is in accordance with Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on the budgetary rules of the Republic, forbidden, and if you make a reserve on empty tables of personnel systemization or debt service or anywhere else, you move outside the law because the law does not allow such a thing. You just said there was some kind of reserve here. There can't be a reserve here. The Chamber of Deputies can't give you the money here. That's why our proposal for $22.4 billion. Or maybe it can, then the Chamber of Deputies resigns from the fact that it wants to keep an eye on the law on budgetary rules and wants to keep an eye on executives in its gentle procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u65	Thank you. With a point of fact, Mrs Kovářová is registered. [[No.]] No, so since I don't see her here, it's Mr. Luzar. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you of perhaps one more reserve. They still have the state's material reserves that this state has to operate at times of crisis and at times of various risks. Here I would remind you how I had the opportunity to look at the first chapter that I have to report in the Economic Committee that this budget is in deficit. The state's material reserves are in deficit, and they also need to be addressed, and the budget does not count on it. I wonder how this will be explained to me in the Economic Committee. But I would like to point out some of the little things that have been said here. The minister quite rightly said he was being dug from the right, from the left. I'd say here that maybe he's gonna get a little kicked around sometime, and I'm just gonna remind him of his words when he was talking about, "I didn't agree to the hearing, that's why I left, they voted it out, and I just have to do it." I do not consider that to be the right course of action from the Minister of the Czech Government. So either he's behind it and he's there and he's voting against it, but he doesn't leave it on the wheels so they can carry the responsibility, and he says from a distance, "I didn't really go there." [[17.20 hours]] And the mantra that he repeated here, "we have 250,000 job vacancies and we don't have people with them," that's been going on for a long time. And I want to point out that this is mainly because, for the small money that is offered for the 250,000 job vacancies, we just don't find workers in this republic. People refuse to work under the conditions offered to them for low wages. And I think it's a good thing that they don't take the job and that they insist that, at a time when there's enough work, the market works and that wages rise up for these employees to make the job more attractive, and those people come to the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u67	Thank you. I'll see if anyone else checks in. Minister with a factual remark. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u68	I won't hold up much longer, I'm just, I'm sorry - I've been Minister of Finance for seven months, but I know what a reserve is. Okay, we'll call it unused expenses to satisfy President Kalousek. That's one point. Second point, what Mr Luzar said. I was actively opposed to the agreement in the government. And the third point is, if unemployment drops even below 3%, except for the very affected 50+ group, there's only people who can't do it or don't want to do it because they won't go to work because if they let themselves get busy, they'll be taken away by the bailiffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u69	Thank you, too. Once again, I am looking to see if anyone is reporting with a factual remark or a debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I beg the Minister's final word. The Minister gives up his final word. I beg the rapporteur's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u70	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, government, colleagues, colleagues, I will be very brief. I would just like to remind the rapporteur that in today's debate, 14 colleagues, some of them repeatedly, and 14 technical comments have also been made, some of them repeatedly. Everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u71	Thank you. And now we have to deal with the vote on the proposals tabled. As far as I know, there has been a proposal from Mr Kalousek in the debate, but I ask the rapporteur to give us a detailed briefing of this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u72	Yes. One proposal from Mr Kalousek was made in the end of the debate. We will vote on it, I propose it first, because it is counterproposal against the resolution of the Committee on Budgets. As a first vote, I propose to vote on Mr Kalousek's proposal, which I will read in order to make it clear what we are voting on, and as a second vote on the motion for a budget committee resolution, which I will no longer read with your permission, because I have already done so once, so I will just refer it to him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u73	Yes. Are there any objections to such a procedure? Mr. Chairman Stanjura. [[It shall request from the Chamber to read the budget committee's resolutions. Newswoman off the mic: Okay, no problem, we can.]] We will now vote on the proposal for amendments to the state budget, as President Kalousek has made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u74	If you don't mind, I'd like to read this one, so it's also on the screen. The motion for this resolution is: The Chamber of Deputies returns to the Government the draft State Budget Act with the following recommendation: I. expenditure cut by 22.4 billion. CZK, i.e. for the amount planned in June 2017; II. retain the revenue to the original amount; III. Balance reduced by 22.4 billion. Kč. Date of submission of the new proposal 20 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u75	Thank you. Now there's a motion to unsubscribe, so I'm going to unsubscribe you all. Please log in again with your identification cards and we will vote on the proposal as submitted. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. [[Objection in the O.R.: It doesn't work!]] Isn't it working? I declare the vote void, we will vote again. It should work by now. Initiating vote. I have a lot of factual points here. Okay. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 4, 181 Members registered, for 9, against 107, the proposal was rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u76	And now we would have made a second vote on the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Budgets, and so I will read it whole at my request. Do you insist on including the division of chapters? Thank you. I'll read the numbers. So if you don't mind: Following the opening words of Finance Minister Ivan Pilný, Mrs Vostrá's intelligence report and following the debate, the Committee recommends that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies adopt the following resolution on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 at first reading: Chamber of Deputies I. approves the basic data of the draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 according to the House's Press 2, which are: A. The amount of revenue fixed by amount of CZK 1 314 497 641 409, the amount of expenditure fixed by amount of CZK 1 364 497 641 409, difference between income and expenditure determined by the amount - CZK 50 000 000 000. [[Balance]] B. Method of settlement of the balance by the following financing items: (a) increasing the state of government bonds up to CZK 50 479 347 964 b) change in state financial assets accounts by an increase of CZK 479 347 964 c. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the regions, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, namely contributions of a total amount of 1 197 575 400 CZK. D. Financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of municipalities, with the exception of the capital city of Prague, in total in individual regions, namely subsidies and contributions of a total amount of CZK 8 605 003 980. E. The financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, namely the contribution of a total amount of CZK 959 571 000. F. Authorisation of the Minister of Finance in §2 para. 1, 2, authorisation of the Ministry of Finance to proceed in determining the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration to individual municipalities and the capital city of Prague and to redistribute the amount of the contribution to the performance of the state administration during the calendar year according to §1 para. 10 (Annex No) 8, everything in the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 according to the House's Press 2); [[including the possibility to change the amount of total revenue, total expenditure and other indicators referred to herein and to that extent]] II. notes that the draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 (a) contains financial relations with the budget of the European Union, namely the expected revenue from the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 70 034 077 273 and contributions to the budget of the European Union of a total of CZK 40 60 00 000 000, (b) determines the extent of the insurance capacity of the Export Guarantee and Insurance Company, a. s., amounting to CZK 211 000 000 000 and the amount of the subsidy to supplement its insurance funds CZK 2,800,000; III. commands to discuss the chapter and headings of the government draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 as I have already read in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u77	Thank you. We have heard the motion for a resolution of the Committee on Budgets. We will now vote on it. We won't. President Stanjura with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u78	Thank you to the rapporteur. I have a request that we vote separately on this point I. We have nothing against the division and the commandments of committees, but we do not want to support the basic parameters of the budget, so I propose separate votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u79	A separate vote, yes. Madam rapporteur, so first of all, we will vote on what?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u80	At this point, we will vote on I, which is the part where we approve the main parameters, that is revenue, expenditure, balance and also the way in which the balance is settled by funding items, and then we approve the financial relations of the state budget to the budgets of the regions, the financial relations of the state budget to the municipal budgets, the financial relationship of the state budget to the budget of the capital city of Prague, and then they are empowering provisions for the Ministry of Finance. We will now vote on this part I.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u81	Thank you. I think it's obvious. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 5, out of 185 Members present for 116, against 32. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u82	Now we would vote on the remaining two chapters. That's II and III. In II he notes. These are the relations that are in the European Union. III - the commandment of the chapters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u83	Yes. Thank you. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the suggestion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 6, out of 185 Members for 167, versus 2. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u84	These are all the proposals that have been put to the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u85	Yes. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. With priority rights, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, I would like to thank my fellow Members from the Government for their very reasonable, rational and constructive approach, which has enabled us to draw up a relatively reasonable draft state budget. Next. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is, if the President follows the timetable for the establishment of the Government, this is probably my last speech before the Chamber of Deputies, so I would like to thank you for today's very constructive debate, which I appreciate, despite my disagreement with some opinions. It was a very fruitful and good course, unlike perhaps those you had attended before. I would like to wish you all the best for the benefit of the citizens of this country who have elected you to the Chamber of Deputies to bring laws and their amendments in such a way as to really benefit them. I wish you all the best of luck and I wish you luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u87	Thank you, Minister Pilný. Now, before we move on to the next point, I have an announcement from the electoral committee. I ask her deputy, Mrs Jarošová, to introduce us to this communication. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u88	Thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. As Vice-President of the Election Commission, I would like to declare a deadline for changes in the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. Today, the Election Commission has adopted resolution number 22 and is declaring a deadline for Members' Clubs to submit proposals for changes in the composition of the institutions to the Chamber of Deputies by Monday 11. 12 to 10 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-05-ps2017-003-01-001-001.u89	Thank you. Initiating discussion of the next item
