ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-002-032.u1	32. Government draft law amending certain industrial property laws in connection with the use of data from information systems of public administration /German press 1047/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 As I have already said, I warn you that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. I will ask all colleagues to take their seats in the hall as far as possible. Under the authority of the Government, the Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka should present the proposal, which I do not see in the hall at this moment. The delegate is the Minister of Industry and Trade. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-002-032.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to introduce a government bill amending certain industrial property laws in connection with the use of data from public administration information systems. The reason for the proposed modification is that the Industrial Property Office should be able to use, to the extent necessary, reference data from the basic population register as well as historical data from the population information system and from the information systems of foreigners. The use of this data is important for the Industrial Property Office not only to ensure smooth administration and maintenance of the Register of Industrial Property Rights, but also to connect the information systems of this Office to the information system of basic registers maintained by the Ministry of the Interior. Providing this approach will make the Office's activities more effective, simplify the position of the parties to proceedings before the Industrial Property Office and reduce the administrative burden both on their part and on the Office itself. The proposed bill therefore amends the Act on inventions and improvements, the Act on protection of topographies of semiconductor products, the Act on utility models, the Act on protection of industrial designs, the Act on protection of designations of origin and geographical indications and the Act on trade marks. In view of the fact that this is a purely technical amendment, the Government of the Czech Republic proposes to the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament to agree with this proposal at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-002-032.u3	Thank you, Minister. I will now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Květa Matušovská to take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-002-032.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present my report to House Press 1047, which amends certain laws in the field of industrial property. The Industrial Property Office shall decide on the provision of protection for industrial property items and shall, in this context, maintain publicly available registers of industrial property rights which are public lists within the meaning of the Civil Code. Commercial and other rights shall be entered in the Register of Industrial Property Rights. Laws for the protection of industrial rights and their implementing legislation shall specify which data are entered in the relevant register of rights and which data are required in the case of individual submissions under the legal procedure. In order to ensure the performance of tasks and in the light of the need to verify and trace certain data under administrative procedures and to keep a register properly, access to relevant data from the basic population register, the information system of the population register and the information system of foreigners should be provided to the Industrial Property Office to the extent necessary. Providing this approach will make the Office's work more effective, simplifying the position of participants and reducing the administrative burden on their part and on the Office's side. Access to this data is necessary for the Authority not only to ensure the smooth conduct of legal proceedings conducted by the Office and to maintain a register of industrial property rights, but also to connect information systems to the information system of basic registers. This technique will allow the use of data from registers kept by the Ministry of the Interior in administrative proceedings on patents, trademarks and other objects of industrial rights. The Authority needs to ensure this authorisation by law as soon as possible so that, in particular, in the case of the introduction of electronic civil certificates, it is able to identify the applicant and not have to bother him with supplementary questions. The amendments tabled from the rapporteur's point of view do not make any significant comments. The amendment is well prepared and corresponds to the solution of the situation. Therefore, as a whole of the House, I would like to ask you to give your consent to this proposal at first reading in accordance with § 90 para. 2 of Act No. 90/1990 Coll., on Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-002-032.u5	Thank you, too. Madam rapporteur, please take your place. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is reporting to the general debate on this point. I don't see anyone. I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur is interested in the final word. They don't. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 1047 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' [[14.40 hours]] I'm registering the check-out request. Please sign up with your cards again. [[He's waiting for a while.]] The number appears to correspond to those present in the hall. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this motion for a resolution, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? This is vote number 128, 87 Members signed up for 81, against 1. This proposal was adopted. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved. I can therefore start a detailed debate now. I ask if anyone is interested in speaking in a detailed debate on this point. I don't see anyone. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word. The rapporteur? They're not interested in the final word. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending certain industrial property laws in connection with the use of data from public information systems, according to the House's press 1047.' I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this resolution to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? This is a 129 vote, 95 Members registered, for 91, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I'm stating that the bill has been approved, and I'm done talking. Thank you. That concludes this point. Chairman Sklenák reporting with priority rights? Yes. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-002-032.u6	Thank you. I'm asking for a 15-minute break for the club meeting. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-002-032.u7	Okay. I will, of course, comply with this proposal. I'm interrupting the meeting until 14.58 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-002-032.u8	The esteemed colleague, ladies and gentlemen, is 14.58 and we can continue with the adjourned meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Opening point
