ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u1	20. Government bill amending Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on Landscape Planning and Construction Regulations (Construction Act), as amended, and other related laws /house print 927/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will state the proposal. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Before I give you my word, I'll ask the House of Honor to keep it down! Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today I come before you for the second time, with the amendment to the construction law. I would like to begin by saying that the construction law brings about changes in 43 other related laws. Forty-three. [[Permanent noise.]] I begin by saying that to enforce and approve the amendment to the Construction Act is one of the main priorities of the Czech Government. The first reading of the draft law took place on 26 October 2016 and was ordered for discussion in three committees, namely the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which was designated as a committee of guarantee, subsequently to the Economic Committee and the Committee on the Environment. All three committees successfully passed the draft amendment to the construction law. These negotiations were discussed and then voted on by all the amendments applied by the members of these committees. The Ministry of Regional Development adopted its position on the amendments applied and expressed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u3	I'm sorry, Madam Secretary. But really, if you have something important you need to deal with, colleagues and colleagues, go to the lobby, or else I will name those of you who are disturbing the House's meeting with your call. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u4	The Ministry of Regional Development has adopted its position on individual amendments and we have expressed our opinion. Of course, where the amendment did not go against the meaning and concept of the entire legislation, we agreed with it because your amendments improve this law and we fully acknowledge that. However, in the event of disagreement, we subsequently gave very detailed reasons for our disagreement. Of course, I couldn't forget a co-president here, which is the Ministry of the Environment. And here I would also like to say with great pleasure that the majority of the amendments between Members and the Ministry of Regional Development, as well as other departments, have come to an agreement, and I would like to thank you all for that. Of course, there was also a clear effort from the proposed amendments to make a more significant change to the entire public building law, not only to the construction law, because a large number of amendments are not directed to the construction law itself, but, above all, to those related laws, especially to the Act 416. It is a law on speeding up the construction of road and other networks, i.e. the EIA Act. We see amendments that are precise in the text of the Construction Act as a very positive link and we certainly welcome such proposals. It is understandable that the general criticism of the lengthy preparation of buildings focuses mainly on the construction law, which, from the investor's point of view, represents the final phase of the authorisation process. However, in addition to the construction law as a general regulation, there are a number of other special laws that currently govern the authorisation of special buildings, the protection of individual public interests, or have a further link to the construction law. As far as the umbrella, the roof over the entire building law is concerned, that means the amendment to the construction law, so of course this law was prepared in accordance with the government's programming declaration, the coalition contract, but the aim is to really simplify the authorisation to manage building permits - and of course shorten the deadlines. That is why I would like to emphasise here that we could not accept amendments that are not really in line with this objective because they would undermine the entire concept of preparing the amendment to the construction law. And here I can say that really the preparation of the amendment that came to you in the Chamber of Deputies was very difficult because the entrances are from individual departments. There are seven departments that have their special construction offices, and of course none of them wants to lose their powers. Cooperation was very difficult. We originally proposed a much more ambitious amendment to the construction law. One office, one permit, the lawsuit after the appeal. One. At this point, we have only managed to fulfil a part of this, and here, of course, I will also follow up on the preparation of the new construction law. What appeared to us in the amendments was indeed a large number. We could not agree with some because they radically changed the entire construction law. For example, so called. static expert. However, the problems that persist, we are prepared to solve systemically with all resorts, but also with regions and municipalities, of course, that means contracting entities, that means really builders, the big ones. The bill was prepared with an effort to contribute to simplification in all stages of construction preparation and realization, because the construction law is about all stages of preparation since the project plan, what to ask for and so on. The aim of this amendment is to simplify. And we're connecting the EIA, the zoning permit and the building decision. However, this coordination procedure is not mandatory, as the MMR originally intended. It's for the investor's decision. Although it was not possible to maintain the amendment proposal in its original form, as it was prepared and discussed in cooperation with the Government and the Interministerial Council, so although the Government decided on some fundamental issues and subsequently contradictions other than those of the Ministry for Regional Development, I still believe that this amendment is ready to improve the situation. It proposes and contains a number of tools to help speed up the preparation, placement and approval of buildings and, of course, contribute to improving the investment environment of the Czech Republic. I would also like to remind you that this law, of course, is not just the law of transport. It's a law that has half of its own. It's zoning, where every community must have a zoning plan. According to him, of course, infrastructure can be built, and all of this is said by this law. The next part concerns the construction law. We're already in the building permits and in the simplification. As far as the other 43 amending laws are concerned, we are, of course, changing the Act on speeding up the construction of road, highway and energy networks. There I hope we will be in agreement when we discuss this on the guarantee committee. However, the interest of the petitioner, co-president and members of the government is that this amendment should go through and indeed bring the objectives of the amendment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u5	Thank you, too. In the first reading, we ordered the proposal to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a Committee on Guarantee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Committee as other committees and the Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 927/1 to 4. I ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Josef Uhlík, take the floor and inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development of the 52nd meeting held on Wednesday, 8 February 2017. It is a resolution on the Government Bill amending Act No. 183/2006 Coll., on zoning and construction regulations, as amended, and other related laws, House press 927. After Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, after Mr Josef Uhlík's report, and after the debate, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development adopted a resolution recommending, first of all, that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve 927 as amended by the amendments adopted. 60 amendments follow. You hear me well, 60. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to introduce the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Thirdly, it instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. So many resolutions. Just a few notes. As you know, the amendment to the construction law includes not only the construction law, but 43 other standards. The amendments we approved, 60, as I said, concern the construction law - 46 of the 60. The other seven standards concern 14 amendments. As the Minister has already said here, the petitioner's consent has been expressed with the overwhelming majority of these amendments and a neutral position has been expressed in some cases. Just for the record, a similar number of amendments have been adopted by the Economic Committee, but, as I have seen, most of these amendments are identical to those agreed in the Public Administration Committee. I think only two are different, so it's gonna be pretty easy there at the third reading. As we see in the system, colleagues have read, I suppose, about 30, 40 amendments, so we will probably be talking at third reading and discussing a hundred amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u7	Thank you, too, rapporteur. I now ask that the words be taken up gradually first by the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková, and also by the rapporteur of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Mr František Laudát, and that we are informed of the discussion of the proposals in the committees and that they justify any amendments. [[Silence, Mrs. Pěnčíkova returns for background.]] Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u8	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I'm sorry, I've got my papers down somewhere. The Committee on the Environment discussed this amendment at its meeting on 8 February 2017. His position is in the House press number 927/2. In essence, it recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the proposal in the text of the amendment adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u9	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Laudát to present the resolution of the Economic Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Economic Committee has discussed the bill amendment. You have it as a print of 927/4. I'm more or less... In the presence of the Minister, we have very often agreed with the Guarantee Committee. Like the Guarantee Committee, we have not accepted the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment in a number of cases, on the contrary, most of the votes, almost all of them, I have a feeling that has taken place, and from the material gestor, the Ministry of Regional Development, these opinions have been accepted. I'm not going to read it here, it's quite extensive material, ten pages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u11	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Before I open the general debate, I will read the apologies. Today, from 17.50 pm to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes and from 18 pm for medical reasons, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes. So I am opening up a general debate to which I record nine entries. Mr Ivan Adamec will be the first to speak, Mr Karel Rais and others will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u12	Thank you. Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, I would not be holding up today. Unfortunately, one such unpleasant thing happened to me when I made an amendment to the system concerning a part of energy, so unfortunately it did not reach the Economic Committee in time. That is why the Minister has quite rightly responded that they will not respond to my proposal and that it will be discussed here in plenary. Before I get to him, I have one perhaps uncompromising wish that concerns the construction law. I really wish the construction process was shorter than the building itself. That's what I think is a goal that we should set, because that actually tells us everything how it works today. I'm not going to remind you of the building bill, but I will, of course, come back to what's in the economic committee, and that's the energy. [[on top of that]] He has the amendment, which I will then read in a detailed debate, and I do not want to read it whole, because it is really long, but it concerns de facto networks. And I'm sure you all agree that networks are a very strategic issue, because it's similar to communications or highways. I would say that in the case of these networks, it is an even more important part of our industry, and I certainly think it is worth increasing the legal certainty of those who actually engage in those networks, who operate them and who manage them. These are the possibilities of expropriating the material burden, which is already in other laws today, but my proposal here gives a significantly higher legal certainty. And I would say that it is very simple, and eventually it refers to some of the laws that are already in force, such as Law No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. It's not unusual, I think it'll help a lot. And definitely who you are in this area, so you know that material burdens, that's actually the basis for the success of laying networks, running networks. And since the structure of the construction law and the energy law is, I would say, as a puzzle, then my amendment will have seven points. Once the transmission system operator, the second distribution system operator, the third gas producer, the fourth transmission system operator, the fifth distribution system operator or the owner of the gas facility, the sixth gas storage facility operator and the seventh heat distribution licence holder or the owner of the relevant thermal equipment. So I'll read it in a detailed debate. I'd like you to pay attention to this. Indeed, legal certainty in this sector is very important, and it is certainly worth it for us to approve and facilitate the life of all those who are around energy networks here in the House, this simple amendment, which seems very difficult to see. Thank you for your attention and I will sign up in a detailed debate on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Karel Rais will now appear, Mr Jan Zahradník will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u14	Hello. As I announced at first reading, I have two proposals based on real life. The first concerns the displacement of the time for the adaptation of the land planning documentation, where major cities, in particular, have a problem, which cannot or does not receive legal obligations in relation to the superior documentation in connection with the new decision-making practice of the administrative courts at the time originally proposed, and is at risk from 1. 1. 2021 could be without any applicable territorial documentation. As an example, I present the problem of the statutory city of Brno. The statutory city of Brno has a valid zoning plan of the city of Brno approved in 1994. In accordance with Article 188 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, 1 of Law No. 183/2006 Coll., Construction Act, this zoning plan would expire on 1. 1. 2021 validity, unless regulated by a separate procedure under this Act, shall be discussed and issued within the scope of the adjustment. And here's the risk. The reason for introducing a time-limit for the effectiveness of territorial plans was that earlier territorial plans did not meet today's needs and had to be replaced by new territorial plans and regulatory plans. The natural prerequisite was that the acquisition of territorial plans, including urban planning, was always possible and legally feasible in real time. However, at the time of the introduction of the time limits of the territorial plans into the law, the review of the territorial plans by the administrative courts has not yet worked - this has started to take place in real terms since about 2011 - which substantially modified the practice of spatial planning. Incomparable from the past are two key factors: the time of the zoning plan - in the past it took two years, currently for large cities about five or six years - and the fact that the intentions of republical importance must first be enshrined in the regional planning documentation, so-called. S.O.R. In addition, in the case of the city of Brno, the superior planning documentation was removed. The principles of territorial development of the South Moravian Region were published at the 29th meeting of the South Moravian Regional Council, which was now held under the new leadership on 5 October 2016 and became effective on 3 November 2016. However, there is a risk that this newly issued document can also be legally challenged. The blocking time and legal circumstances were not known at the time of the insertion of the time limits of the territorial plans.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u15	Okay. Then, President Kováčik - I will ask him to stop talking. [[He's resisting smiling that he's not talking. He's sitting in his desk.]] President Foldyna - I will also ask him to stop talking. And I'll ask for silence. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u16	And then I come to the conclusion, and that is precisely to determine a compromise solution to the 31st term. 12. 2024, which was the term that was elected on the basis of negotiations with all stakeholders here, with a number of politicians and Members from the South Moravian Region and from the city of Prague. And I see it as at least possible from the point of view of the necessary time for realization. So I am announcing that, in a detailed debate, I will then sign up to the amendment under number 5887. That's the first thing. And the second thing is real life again, and it is an amendment that concerns the construction of religious buildings. One of the main objectives of the construction law is the protection of cultural and civilizational values. The Czech Republic has recently been facing a new phenomenon of placement of religious buildings in a built-up territory of municipalities, or changes in the purpose of the use of existing buildings, with substantial changes in material and intangible cultural values and local identity. I actually responded by creating an amendment. He basically responds to the construction of religious buildings without the permission of the public administration. I would like to stress that the proposed regulation applies only to new religious buildings of churches and religious societies which are not holders of special rights under Act No. 3/2002 Coll., on freedom of religion and the position of churches and religious societies and on the amendment of certain laws, the law on churches and religious societies. That is, this regulation has no real impact on today's or future constructions of established churches and religious societies. These are newly active religious associations in the territory of the Czech Republic. I have this amendment under number 5236 and will also apply to it in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u17	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a point of fact, Mrs Anna Putnová is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to support Mr Rais's amendment, which comments on the extension of the deadline for the zoning plan. And I will speak for Brno because I know the issues in Brno. As has been said, our zoning plan dates back to 1994 and since then 40 decisions have been taken which have changed the original zoning plan. I would also like to point out that today we have reason to believe that we could manage, and manage well, the preparation of the zoning plan if we were given a chance to shift the deadline, because the office of architect of the city of Brno was appointed on the basis of an audition by Mr. architect docent. Michal Sedláček, who is an architect of European format and worked for the famous world architect Frank Gehry. I believe that his personality is also a guarantee of quality processing. I think it is still worth mentioning what has already been said here as an undertone. Brno was not less able to prepare a zoning plan. It just had far more capable activists who could reverse the current plan and the court decision to win in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Jan Zahradník, Mr. Josef Uhlík, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u20	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like to introduce you to my amendment concerning the clarification of the definition of line construction. It relates to Section 2, namely the addition of paragraph 2. 10 to Section 2. Paragraph 2 is a definition section that contains a number of definitions, concepts that are then referred to in the law, to which the law refers anyway. I will now read the text of the proposal: In Section 2, paragraph 2 is added. 10 shall read: "Linum structures shall mean buildings of roads, railway structures, lines for the transmission and distribution of electricity, buildings for the distribution of thermal energy, gas pipelines, pipelines and pipelines, buildings of electronic communications lines, buildings of taps and sewers, take-off and runways and movement areas of airports, dams of water works, modifications of watercourses including water tanks, main constructions to watermelioration, navigation channels and driveways." The other amendment points are outnumbered. Line construction is a term which is mentioned as an important term in the Civil Code, namely in its § 509. The main idea of Section 509 of the Civil Code is that line construction is not part of the land. And then it is specified here what is understood by the term line construction. The Civil Code states that these are mainly water pipes, sewerage or power lines or other lines and other objects which, by their nature, regularly affect more land. And then the section adds: It is considered that there are also constructions and technical equipment that are connected to them. That means that the definition, in my opinion, is not entirely accurate. That definition doesn't exhaust all other options. Since we often refer to line constructions when we are talking about railway or roads, waterworks, etc., I therefore took the liberty of proposing such clarifications in paragraph 2 of this Article. 10. Finally, when preparing the construction law, such a definition of line construction was envisaged, but for some reason this definition of line construction was excluded from the text of the amendment to the construction law. [[18.00 hours]] This is particularly true in relation to waterworks, a large part of which was built between 1950 and 1990 according to the custom of the time and in accordance with the legislation on foreign lands at that time. Thus, given that the Civil Code does not mention precisely these constructions - various drives, water bodies, melioration grates, etc. - so the court decisions, which then have to determine what the property relationship is, determine that the property is part of the property. And since the land is often owned by a large number of owners, it happens that these landowners own part of the work in question, the construction in question, and they don't even know how many times that's the case. They do not know that the operation of the construction is not intended by them, they do not contribute to its operation, and on the other hand they have no revenue, no profit or profit from it. This joint management is therefore a problem that water operators are mainly dealing with. There could be some maintenance deficit registered, or there would be disputes between co-owners and the building manager about who would actually be the one to take care of it. [[Noise in the left side of the hall.]] So, to sum up, it is desirable that these waterworks, such as similar structures, i.e. communication, are not part of the land directly from the law's diction, i.e. specifying the definition in combination with the Civil Code, if they say that then the construction is not part of the land, and that it could be that the owners of the water works, i.e. the new owners, could argue, and how the law actually imposes, with those landowners, to enter into relations with rental, material burdens, etc., so that the relationship between the construction and the land could actually be aligned and the owner of the line construction could ensure its proper functioning. That is why I think that this proposal could be acceptable, and in the detailed debate that I have signed up for, I will mention it under the House number, and I will also apply to this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u21	Thank you. I will now ask for the speech of Mr Josef Uhlík. Mr. Petr Kudela will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to my amendment. In cooperation with the Ministry of Environment, I present this proposal. It concerns part 23 of the amendment to the Construction Act. Currently, next to the amendment to the Construction Act, the amendment to Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and amending some related laws. This is the House's 1003. It's a so-called EIA transposition novel. Both the amendment to the Construction Act and the EIA Transposition Amendment contain amendments to the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. In some cases, amendments to the same provisions of this Act are proposed in both of these amendments. The reason for submitting this amendment is to ensure compliance between the two amendments and the subsequent applicability of the Environmental Impact Assessment Act after their adoption. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u23	Thank you, too. Mr Petr Kudela will now appear. Mr. Petr Bendl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u24	Mr President, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we recently approved the amendment to the Fuel Act, and in it we also specified the requirements for petrol stations and for places where fuel is spent and other energy media are pumping. In this law, I tried to specify the rules for placing so-called filling stations, which are not constructions, but they are technical equipment, and I was dependent on the fact that these conditions should be laid down by the construction law. Therefore, I took the liberty of preparing a small amendment to the construction law, which specifies in addition to products fulfilling the construction function, these are different unimocells, container structures and the like, also to make this paragraph, namely § 103 para. 1 (e) 16, also covered these container service stations, i.e. products approved and marketed under another legislation, and these are references to the Act on Technical Requirements for Products as amended. I also have other amendments prepared. However, these are already in the field of agriculture so that the construction law cannot exclude the location of buildings and facilities for agriculture in the territorial planning documentation. My next amendment relates to water management, for accelerated construction of water infrastructure not only for flood protection, but also for relief of drought or for other purposes under the Water Act in the public interest. Thank you. I have just briefly mentioned the areas for which I will put forward amendments in a detailed debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u25	Thank you, too. Mr Petr Bendl will now appear. Mr Martin Novotný will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. First of all, my colleagues, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few general words on the subject, because we have been rather long on the committee discussing individual amendments in anticipation of the fact that there may be hundreds, perhaps dozens, of other committees, in particular from the economic sector, and we will see amendments that need to be discussed, so there is nothing simple. I guess we're all interested in keeping the building law from slowing things down. I'm a little concerned about the institute's possibility of interrupting the EIA, for example, or interrupting the zoning process, because it will mean in practice that it didn't really matter when we merged the EIA and the zoning decision-making process. There I see certain dangers that will ultimately ensure that the law does not help much in practice. But it's an academic debate right now. We will see what amendments will eventually pass and how the law will end at third reading. However, I felt obliged to say this here and this too much enthusiasm for the fact that the building bill itself must be... It is necessary to respond in particular to the adopted government bill on the environmental impact of buildings, which makes construction in the Czech Republic clearly difficult from my point of view, and the Czech Republic does not actually build at this time. When you look at the numbers of using European money and so on, we are in very bad shape. If we make life more difficult by building law, then we can basically say goodbye to investment in the Czech Republic or some significant investment. I would like to justify two amendments, which I will apply to in a detailed debate, but I will take it very briefly. [[18.10 hours]] Therefore, first of all, the amendment, which is under House document No. 5899. Short justification: Amendment proposed by § 90 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) specify the requirements for public transport or technical infrastructure. At the same time, however, these requirements and thus the impact of the project on the infrastructure are narrowing down. The amendment aims to adapt the wording of this law to a more general level so that the impact on infrastructure in full scope can be assessed in territorial proceedings. The same applies to the newly inserted paragraphs, § 94 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) and § 94 (b) Article 4 (1) (a) (b) (?), i.e. cases where common territorial and construction procedures and common territorial and construction procedures are conducted with an environmental impact assessment. That is one amendment and its justification. And the second one, which I will just sign up for in a detailed debate, is his brief justification. It's 5898. These amendments aim to coordinate the House's press 927, which is a building law, and the House's press 936, which includes a government bill on measures to reduce the cost of introducing high-speed electronic communications networks and amending certain related laws. Print 936 in section 4. and 5. contains amendments to the Construction Act and Act on Acceleration of the Construction of Transport, Water and Energy Infrastructure. The amendment to the construction law in print 936 contains point 1, which is amended by § 27 para. 3, which is amended in another way, but with the same result in the amendment to the Construction Act in print 927 points 41 to 43. This is why these points need to be deleted. In paragraphs 6 and 8 of Part 39. it is necessary to make an adjustment that reacts to the modifications in printing 936. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u27	Thank you. I will now ask Mr Martin Novotný to speak and Mr Václav Horáček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u28	Mr President, colleagues, and my speech also concerns the justification for the amendment, which is a very simple step and consists in the confusion of the wording 'in accordance' for the wording 'not contrary'. What exactly is this about? One of the intensity of the petitioners is mine. speed up and facilitate constructions relating to energy infrastructure. My amendment is heading towards Article XLII, point 2. It concerns Article 1 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning It solves hypothetical double-type situations. The first situation that may arise concerns a situation where the municipal planning is not complete, and legal logic at least tells me that it can only be consistent with the existing document. The second reason for the formulation change concerns situations where energy construction is not of such magnitude as to be of an over-local nature, i.e. so that it can appear on a distinctive scale of the principles of territorial development, i.e. the higher regional planning documentation, which has a kind of scale and provides only the construction of a certain superplaced meaning and a kind of strategic significance. If we were to keep the word "in line," so in a situation where the planning documentation either does not exist, it has not yet been approved, or it is not part of the ZÚR, but not because the ZÚR disagrees with it, but because it is out of line with the scale of the ZÚR, there could be an interpretation problem between the word "in accordance". In harmony with something that exists, or what the document really deals with and deals with. That is why I propose to use the wording "does not conflict" in these places, which does not change the fundamental instinct of the adaptation, but addresses the situations that I have said. In the debate, I will then sign up in detail without any further explanation to House document 5921.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u29	Thank you. Mr. Václav Horáček will now appear and prepare Mr. Jiří Petrů. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apply to the amendment by Mrs Langšádlová, who is duly excused. It's very simple, it's on two points. I think it's very logical. So, first of all, in the first part of the article. The following point shall be inserted after point 38: 10. The following Section 20a is inserted after Section 20a, including a footnote: § 20a Territorially planning documentation, its update or amendment, and the complete text of the planning documentation after the last update or amendment is published, is also made out in an electronic version in a machine-readable format, as the footnote sounds, there is Section 3 para. 7 of Law No 106/1999 Coll., on Free Access to Information, as amended. The second point is: In point 281 of Section 165, at the end of the text of paragraph 1, the words "the same documentation shall also be provided in an electronic version in a machine-readable format' shall be added. Allow me to make a brief statement, and in a detailed debate, I will just log in under the number of the system. In order to share and further process information on the envisaged future use of the territory, which provides for territorial planning documentation, it is necessary that this information is also available to the public administration in a format that allows it to be easily processed. It is therefore proposed that an obligation be laid down to process the territorial planning documentation and its updates or amendments, including the complete version, in an electronic version in a machine-processing format which will allow for further easier sharing and processing. The proposed legislation will enable the data generated by the planning documentation to be provided in accordance with the INSPIRE Directive. It is assumed that some data generated by spatial planning will be published through a geographic information system, you know, in GIS, which is a computer information system and serves for the acquisition, storage, analysis and visualization of data that have a spatial relationship to the surface of the Earth. Currently, local planning documentation is processed mainly using computer programs that use the definition of individual elements in the graphic section using vector coordinates. The text part of the zoning plan is processed in the text editor. Therefore, the requirement that the land-use planning documentation and its changes be processed in an electronic version in a machine-readable format will not entail an increase in the cost of its acquisition and will not increase the cost of public budgets. The incorporation of this obligation in the law is intended to provide for the designer to transmit to the public the planning documentation in such a format as to enable it to be shared within the meaning of the INSPIRE Directive. In a detailed debate, I will just sign up in the system under number. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u31	Thank you. Mr Jiří Petrů will now appear, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u32	Dear Minister, dear colleagues, most of my amendments, which are included in the electronic system, have been processed at the meeting of the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Ministry of Regional Development on 1 February of this year and are also informed by the Committee on Public Administration. However, I am speaking on the grounds that I would like to draw attention to my last amendment, and because we are discussing the construction law as amended and other related laws, my amendment concerns the amendment to the Act on expropriation No. 184/2006 Sb. Surely you know that in practice one can encounter a case where, in the expropriation of land, it can be an agricultural parcel of 0,3 hectares, it is required to ban the whole land, the whole area of which is 127 hectares, exemplary. This means a ban on the lease of land in the whole area, even if such an expropriation would not prevent the expropriator from expropriating it. It is disproportionate and unfair to demand this from the expropriated. The proposed amendment removes this absurd requirement and the prohibition applies only to the part of the land or construction which is the object of expropriation. So that is what I considered necessary to tell you and to ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u33	Thank you, too. I will now ask Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mr Kolovratník will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you my amendment, which aims to clarify the wording of Section 119 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 1 government proposal whose interpretation could lead to complications in application practice. The specific part of the explanatory memorandum of the Government's proposal states that the proposal further deepens deregulation and that it is proposed to leave the co-adjusting obligation only for constructions and their changes requiring approval under the applicable regulation. Government proposal for amendment § 119 para. However, 1 paradoxically allows for an interpretation in extreme cases that the approval could also apply to buildings which are not required to permit the location - territorial decision or territorial consent - nor to implement - notification or building permit. The amendment therefore specifies the Government's proposal by clearly stating that only the completed construction or part of it capable of separate use referred to in Section 103 (1) (b) will be subject to approval. Article 4 (1) (a) (e) in points 4 to 8, construction declared to the construction office pursuant to § 104 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) to (d) and (k) or under special legislation, water law, or where it requires a building permit. This definition corresponds to the existing wording of § 119 para. 1. The further narrowing of the collaborated buildings corresponds to the government's proposal, i.e. the approval obligation is proposed to leave only for constructions and their changes requiring approval under the applicable regulation. Finally, I would like to say that the proposed amendment was consulted with the petitioner before it was introduced into the system, i.e. Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u35	Thank you, too, Madame. And now, Mr Kolovratník, the last one entered into the general debate so far, will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u36	Colleagues, colleagues, good evening, thank you for the floor. I don't have any notes in my hand, so I'll try to be brief. I will turn to you with a request for moderation and balance sheet in support and consideration of the vast number of amendments tabled. I'm gonna defend the secretary's position a little bit, and I'm gonna fight for her, and I know why I'm doing this. I'm doing this for reasons that I've changed my mind very well. I've been watching the debate that's been going on very closely. I understand the motives of a number of you led by a good thing that you want to improve the building process, the approval process, the appeal process, but really, as I said at the beginning of my performance, I want to ask for some moderation. And the request is for that reason, and it was explained to the Minister in the introduction that the law had been prepared for a very long time. Indeed, hundreds of hours have been worked on it and its basic idea, or such a fundamental mind bearer, in addition to the transpositional acts towards the EU, is really simplifying the construction process for small, small builders. Go ahead, and I assume that you have the information, we have come up with a rather large and extensive comprehensive amendment on both the guarantee committee and the economic committee, and here we have worked a huge amount of work on this amendment, and it is up to it, I will now deliberately overdo it, hard-worked and unworked agreement and agreement not only between a few ministries, that is, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Justice, but on it there is a consensus really worked out across the political spectrum between the coalition and the opposition. If you have not been there, for your sake in this House document, the press number 927/3 and 927/4, that is the resolution of the committees, the Guarantee Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and our economic development, and we actually voted there as one man. In concert, we all supported the broad agreement across the law on a number of points. And it was actually halfway there. The other half consists of one of the amendments, which will be introduced in a few moments and will be signed up by a colleague, Ladislav Okleštěk, and it is actually the continuation of the modified version, discussed version of the amendment. And this is where we'll be begging for your support at the third reading. What's going on? What's the complex proposal about? It's about transportation. We're here to help traffic. I'm not going to hold you back now by appointing the many points that we've worked out and prepared and found a consensus between more departments, but in general, we support the transport sector here, the acceleration of the construction of line transport structures. I am alerting any human rights defenders, only those line constructions that we define as strategic. They are therefore constructions in accordance with the definition of Law No. 416/2009 Coll., simplified highways, I. class roads and in the case of railways so called. national public railways, they are mostly railway corridors on the TEN-T network or in the future high-speed lines. And we will support this in the joint amendment under which they are once again signed, and I want to thank you for that, colleagues from both the coalition and the opposition. So I'm asking for your support here. And in the case of the other individual proposals of the various Members, there I address on behalf of the Minister to all the clubs, and I ask for a moderation and a reasonable approach so that we do not ultimately break and break the building bill ourselves. It would be a shame. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u37	I thank you and ask myself - I note Mr Stanjura's factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would like to speak to Mr Kolovratník, if he will pay my attention. Such a contradiction has been logical several times in his performance, so I would like him to work on it. First. Just take it easy, but we have prepared a big, complex amendment. That doesn't add up. Either he pays first or he pays second! And I don't doubt that a lot of work has been done, but it really bothers me to say, "I'm not gonna hold you up." That's not stalling. That's really not stalling. And I think these changes deserve some longer comment if we want some stronger support than some tight majority. And the third thing. Maybe it's more of a system thing. Is this a comprehensive amendment or is it not? If so, we must decide on this by voting, and any amendments are made to a comprehensive amendment. That's what they call it, and it's nothing. And I'd like to make it clear, so that there are no problems, that something is unvoteable, something is voteable. However, you were not modest. You guys threw yourself at it a little bit like the opposition, and I'd say that you essentially rewrote it to the secretary and rewrote it. And I don't know how we're gonna stand up to it yet, but I'd like to hear it, and we really don't have to rush like this - when you say transport help, I'm up for it, but maybe we can tell you what the help is and if there's just a positive or even a negative or some risk, because it's not such a black and white story. I experienced a lot of attempts to simplify the construction law and the result was exactly the opposite. Perhaps those who suggested it meant well, but it turned out as always to use a famous winged statement from an eastern country. So if I may challenge you this way, Mr colleague, through the Vice-President, it would be worth at least commenting on in detail for me in the area of transport, what benefits you see and how we could see any risks or shortcomings of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u39	Thank you. Mr Kolovratník's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u40	I admit it and I'll take it. I don't want to start a dispute between me and Zbyněk Stanjura right now. I'll try to enter the reaction in two minutes. Maybe it should be an apology from me. I used the formulation of the comprehensive amendment and the big amendment. Well, to keep the definition. It's not complex. I call him that because I feel that way because it's extensive. So I'm sure I won't insist on that word formalistically. And that would explain why we don't have to watch the procedure. I can also see the objection that I'm saying a contradiction. Let's take it easy, or please take it easy, and we got into it this big. I guess the request comes from the fact that I was in the process. Any of the colleagues, coalition or opposition, came up with his idea, with his proposal now during the last months, December, January, so we were just trying to work it out and communicate between the various ministries. We really sat with all the resorts on several occasions. The request was about to be done. We're in some kind of phase. I'm not saying it's 100%. We got somewhere. We found, I'll say, maximum possible match, maximum possible match rate. And my plea is that I'd like to, and I believe I speak for the Minister now, who's held back by the other good ideas. It'd be too much, and I guess this could be the end of it. And to explain what's good, what's not good about it. What we think is positive. Of course, it's not a problem to get into this debate here in plenary, but I am more of a supporter of the committees for myself. There we sit in a smaller lineup, let's say a specialized lineup. That's where we're gonna fight for it. We'll make a deal there. And even with the first one, with the numbers of the House prints, a number of things, a number of parts were simply removed and not accepted by agreement. After a broad agreement between the ministries and the Members, both in the guarantee committee and in the economics committee. Well, I'd put in a better word for that, then, for the work on the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u41	Thank you. Mr Stanjura's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u42	So I thought it was just big and not complex and thank you for the explanation. But I don't take that for b. It is not that the final form of the law is approved by the committee. It's not like that. And it really bothers me when you say... What about us who are on other committees and we would like to hear it and we would like to decide on the basis of a debate whether or not we will support it? And it is not done, Mr. Ambassador, through the Vice-President. When the third reading is done. Second reading serves to make amendments. After today, we will get a summary of the amendments and we will start to think, at least some of us that we will support and who do not want to rely only on the flagship or on the good recommendations of those who have worked it off. No offense. I know you can't do this as a task, but it would be nice if you told us something about the traffic, because then it might be too late. Today, now. Now's the chance. We're in no hurry. We started when we were 14, and it's only 6:30. So what's the hurry? We're in no hurry. Isn't it a shame it doesn't come out here if it's that strong? Is it communicated? Does that stand a chance of a lot of support? Then try telling us. I can only ask politely. There's nothing else I can do at this point. Then we'll just vote. Then it'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u43	Thank you, too. At this point, I am not registering any further applications for the general debate. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor at this point. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like once again to thank very much the constructive debate, particularly on the Committee on Public Administration, because that was actually reflected in the debates on the other two committees, which was the Committee on the Environment and the Economic Committee. And that's where I think we really explained everything in detail. The accounts were represented there. So thank you again, because I think the law is laying here the way it should be right now. About the big amendment. There's a lot of changes there. Most of these parts are heading into the amendment of Act No. 416 on speeding up the construction of road transport and energy networks. And, of course, there was the first proposal that was also dealt with on all committees, so the MMR couldn't agree, because we're here now in defense of making the amendment to the construction law work. And at this point, we have agreed on some principles. Not all of them. There is no consent for preliminary possession, there will not be the approval of the Ministry of Regional Development. That's what I said at the beginning. We don't agree with that, but there should be a match on the other parts. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u45	Thank you, too. I want to ask the rapporteur if he wants to speak. No. In that case, I am launching a detailed debate, in which I record 15 entries. Mr Matěj Fichtner will be the first to perform. Mr. Ivan Adamec will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. In a detailed debate, I would like to sign up for my amendments, which I have put into the system. Maybe some general introduction to that. All these amendments are aimed at small-scale builders. When we consider that, of course, construction can generally be financed either by a public investor or by a private investor, both sources of funding being equivalent from the point of view of gross domestic product production, because of course the gross domestic product is made up of both public and private investments, I understand that the bill actually accelerates the line constructions in particular, and I would certainly like to thank the Minister for that. That's a very, very good step. However, I would say that the part of the proposal that is directed at private small investors could go a little further. At all, the construction law as it is today, so I think it is an example of a bit too high regulation and it deserves to loosen up a little bit precisely for the benefit of those small investors, who can then realize their investment intentions and thus contribute to the creation of also gross domestic product, because considering that these private investors hold money in their hands and are ready to implement the constructions, but regulation prevents them from doing so, by simply releasing the regulation, it will certainly be possible to support the construction development of cities and municipalities. So much for a general introduction. And let me, therefore, read the various amendments. They're all stored in the system. Then the last amendment I will be reading, so I ask the rapporteur to pay a little attention to it, because there will be a difference from the text that is stored in the system. But I'll get to that. The first amendment, which is deposited under number 5126 in the system, concerns the issue covered by Paragraph 79 (2) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (p) the construction law. As a reminder, § 79 para. 2 thus defines a range of exceptions, construction projects for which no decision on the location of the building or territorial consent is required. Originally in the text of the law, which is now valid, it is written that decisions on the location of the building or territorial consent are not required for a swimming pool up to 40 m2 of built-up area on a family house plot or for a family recreation in a built-up area located at a distance of at least 2 m from the property border. The amendment, which is submitted, makes this regulation a little loose because it says that no decision on the location of the building is required or the territorial consent for the pool up to 40 m2 of built-up area on the built-up building plot of the family house or the construction for family recreation in the built-up area or a stopable area located at a distance of at least 2 m from the property boundary and its related technical equipment. This means that there is some kind of technical facility related to the pool, and neither will the technical equipment require a territorial approval or a decision on the location of the building. [[18.40 hours]] My amendment extends this exception even further to the roofing of this pool. That means the words "including roofing" are added. So many amendments filed under number 5126. Another amendment is the amendment deposited under number 5125, where the text in force in Section 2 (2) is amended. 5 the construction law of the letter. (c). The original text distinguishes the change of completed construction into superstructure, extension and construction work, with the superstructure being a construction or operation increasing the construction. The construction is an activity which is expanding the ground plan, and the construction is a type of completed construction, in which both the external ground plan and the height boundary of the construction are preserved. This is the sound of the present § 2 paragraph. 5 whereas there is a case-law relating to the construction arrangements in question. I'd just like to put it to the Court of First Instance. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (a) and (b) that the superstructure and extension are, of course, generally permitted in the territorial procedure, whereas the construction work is only permitted in the construction procedure. As far as the case law is concerned, the caselaw has actually assessed the difference between the construction work and the superstructure, and as an extension - I will only say the result - the caselaw considers the change in the whole upper surface of the building, which in practice means that if you want to build a skylight on the roof, which is not a major issue, according to the current case law, you must be allowed in territorial proceedings. I really consider this to be excessive regulatoryism, and for this reason it is proposed to amend the wording of Section 2 (1). Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (c) a construction law in the sense that the words "even height" are deleted and the words "and its total height" are inserted beyond the limits of the construction. This means that it will no longer be any change in the upper surface of the building, but it will only be a change in the overall height of the construction. So much for Amendment 5125. Of course, the written reasoning is part of the amendments, so you can read it in peace as well. Another amendment is deposited under number 5766 and concerns the change in the tracing of technical networks in the conservation zone. Just for the record, if the route of the maintenance of the technical infrastructure is not changed, the replacement of the technical infrastructure may not be permitted in the territorial management. This does not apply to the landmark zone. So this would also be introduced for a landmark zone where there are really sometimes problems with the management of technical infrastructure. You have detailed reasons in your materials. [[Mr Yanulík warns of the time before the rhetoric.]] The last amendment is under number 5127, it is quite a big issue and concerns spatial planning. At present, there are several thousand proposed changes to the zoning plan that are not discussed in the capital city of Prague. These changes are several years old, some up to ten years old, and they just grow in Prague. It is not only a problem of Prague, it is a problem of Brno and other big cities, when the person who wants to change the zoning plan in some way will make this request and it is in the office, hangs somewhere, nobody cares about it and there are significant delays. I am so glad that the Ministry of Regional Development has introduced a new institute for the shortened acquisition of a change in the zoning plan in the amendment that we are discussing. This is great, but this shortened procurement does not include any time limit within which the municipality council has to decide on the proposal. So the amendment I am proposing is that in the new Section 55a, paragraph 55a is inserted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It shall be decided by the municipal council without undue delay, but no later than 12 months after its submission. My written amendment says six months. My colleagues and I were debating this, and I'm proposing 12 here, so that's the difference between what's in the system. I hope the rapporteur is listening to me and registering it. I suppose there is no problem for municipalities - it is certainly not a problem for small municipalities and for large municipalities, if this is the problem, it is the fault of the management of the municipality. If a small builder asks for a change in the zoning plan, it is decided within 12 months. I think it's a time limit that every village, including Prague, has to make. The representative is meeting at least once every three months, which means there are four councils that have been running since the proposal to amend the zoning plan, and I do not see a single reason why municipalities should be allowed to extend that period. I understand, of course, the argument that the amendment does not contain any penalty. This means that if the municipality does not decide within a specified period of 12 months, there is no fine or any other form of penalty. I understand this possible objection. On the other hand, if that sanction were in the amendment, there will certainly be sanctions, not the proposal itself. So now it's being proposed as so-called. an impeccable standard, a standard that is without penalty, even if it sets an obligation. Let's see how it works in practice. If it turns out that this does not work in the sense that municipalities do not follow this, then we can talk here in the Chamber of Deputies about whether any form of sanctions should not be there, and we can talk about the specific form of sanctions. However, I currently believe that it is sufficient if there is a time limit for the municipality, respectively. for the municipality council, in which it is to decide on a proposal for an accelerated procedure for the acquisition of a change in the zoning plan. So much for me. Maybe a refill. Of course, this does not concern the package of changes to the zoning plan, which currently lies in the municipalities, including Prague. This applies only to those proposals that will be submitted pursuant to Section 55a, which is newly proposed from the workshop of the Ministry of Regional Development. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u47	Thank you, too. Mr Adamec will now appear, Mr Foldyna will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u48	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, colleagues, I said that the amendment was simple, but the reasoning is not easy at all. [[A cheerful response from a bunch of Members.]] Since there has now been such a very detailed justification for previous amendments, I will try to be more brief. As I said in the general debate, this is legal certainty for those who manage networks, or the owner of some production, like I said here, I'm not going to say it here. [[unintelligible]] Maybe I'll repeat who it's all about. The security of expropriation of the material burden concerns the transmission system operator, the distribution system operator, the gas producer, the transmission system operator, the distribution system operator or the gas facility owner, the gas storage facility operator and the heat distribution licence holder or the heat distribution plant owner. This is therefore the part that concerns the amendment of the Energy Act. The amendment has the number of House document 5690, which, of course, I am applying for. Now, allow me a brief brief justification for the seven points that are there. Because I'm not really gonna keep you, I'm not gonna discuss it 1 to 7 because it's happening again. I'll put it as a summary. [[18.50 hours]] The proposal will clearly prevent the incorrect interpretation of those provisions on the impossibility of expropriating the right of a material burden for the purpose of placing and operating the construction of an energy infrastructure in cases where the construction of a foreign immovable property is already carried out or already exists and without the operator or owner of the energy infrastructure concerned thwarting the establishment of a material burden itself. These are therefore constructions that serve to supply basic energy media - electricity, gas, heat - to the public, so their strategic character must be perceived. Although at present the wording of those provisions does not exclude the expropriation of rights for the established or existing construction, it is in the interest of legal certainty that the builder of such a construction or operator of the relevant energy infrastructure, which is affected by such construction, to confirm clearly the correct interpretation and practice. The possibility of expropriating a material burden for a established or existing construction is essential in many cases where a secured private title is lost for the use of a foreign plot caused by the owner of an immovable property without any contribution from the operator himself or the owner of such a building. This is, for example, a situation where the contract on the future contract on the establishment of a material burden or the impossibility of fulfilling such a future obligation, the withdrawal of the prior consent of the owner of the immovable property, the termination of the lease agreement, etc. It should be recalled that the proposed legislation is not unique in the legal order, since the possibility of expropriating rights for an established or existing construction already explicitly allows, for example, Law No. 13/1997 Coll., on the Road. The proposal for an already existing option to expropriate the establishment of a material burden for the established or already established construction of the energy infrastructure in question builds for sure, not in an impenetrable manner, but only in such situations as the operator or owner of the installation of such a material burden itself has not thwarted. That's a short explanation. I'm saying I won't be analyzing the individual points. You can each find that in your own system. Thank you for your attention and please support this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Foldyna will now appear, Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u50	Thank you, Mr President. I want to sign up for my amendment, bearing number 5904. I will just briefly state what the amendment relates to. You know that the authorisation processes in the Czech Republic, especially their length, are very long, are unpredictable, and this makes life very difficult for investors both Czech and foreign, especially in high-tech technologies, where these things are quite difficult to enforce. Law No. 100 Sb. on the assessment of environmental effects. Everyone's got enough room in there. I think that the technical standard that the building procedure is should be a competent area for competent authorities. In my amendment, I restrict the entry of associations into the building process. I would like to speed up the discussion of building permits in the Czech Republic, so I would like to ask you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u51	Thank you, too. Mr Karel Rais will now appear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u52	Have a good evening. I would like to begin by thanking Professor Putnová, who quite clearly said some things that I forgot. As for my proposal to extend the validity of the territorial documentation, because there are activists there, whether green, blue, dotted, it doesn't matter, but these activists, in fact, still with the incompetent previous management of the South Moravian Region, have caused the principle of territorial decision not even to be clearly defined. Now the situation has changed since October last year, but there is still the danger that any activist can throw a pitchfork through the administrative court, as the people say, and therefore basically make it impossible to meet the deadline. That is why, in the first amendment, I propose with other colleagues across the political spectrum, as it is said here, an extension of the exemption from the territorial planning documentation. These considerations are set out in Amendment 5887, which is what I am referring to this amendment. The second amendment responds specifically to the current situation in the city of Brno, where they arise more or less without the permission of various religious buildings, and the authorities are basically just looking at it because they do not have a legal instrument. So, in essence, despite Amendment 5236, I am trying to introduce an institute of local referendum that would decide whether or not citizens agree to the construction of a religious building. I stress the fact that the proposed regulation applies only to and exclusively to the new religious buildings of newly established religious societies and does not concern classical established churches and religious societies. This is mentioned in Amendment 5236, which I am applying to. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u53	Thank you, too. Mr Václav Snopek will now appear, Mr Jan Zahradník will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u54	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. I want to sign up for the amendments under number 5933. Very briefly. One amendment concerns § 87 and it is the opening of the territorial procedure with regard to the action of several municipalities in order to be able to use the decree under the administrative order, and it is further paragraphs. [[unintelligible]] I think it might find a match. The second amendment is actually to sign up for a proposal that we had here once and unfortunately did not lose one vote in the Economic Committee, unfortunately my vote, and it is a territorial decision for selected buildings of energy infrastructure. I think it's a proposal that has a chance to go through. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u55	Thank you, too. Mr Jan Zahradník will now appear, Mr Josef Uhlík will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u56	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to sign up for an amendment that I introduced you to a moment ago concerning the definition of line constructions. I have inserted this proposal into the system as House document 5905. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u57	Thank you. Mr Josef Uhlík will now appear, Mr Adámek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hereby sign up for the amendment, which is listed in the system as House document 5918. I gave the reasons in the general debate. As regards the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I refer to House Press 927/3. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u59	Thank you. Mr Adámek will now appear, Mr Kudela will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u60	Hello, Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members. I would like to sign up for two amendments. One is listed as House Document No 5806 and the other 5936. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u61	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Kudela, Mr Petr Bendl will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u62	Mr President, Madam Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, as I have announced in the general debate, I am now signing up for the amendments in House Document No 5937. This amendment regulates Section 103 of the Construction Act on products fulfilling construction and products approved and marketed under other legislation. [[Function]] [[19.00 hours]] The second amendment to which I apply is registered in the system under number 5939. The aim of this amendment is to create a prerequisite for the possibility of accelerated construction of water infrastructure not only to protect against floods, but also to mitigate the effects of drought or other purposes under water law and in the public interest. The other amendments I am proposing are Amendment 5940 and Amendment 5941. These amendments are intended to enable easier construction of agricultural buildings or agricultural buildings in an unbuilt territory which could not be excluded from the planning documentation. Thank you for understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u63	Thank you, too. Mr Petr Bendl will now appear, Mr Martin Novotný will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u64	Thank you for the floor. Time's up, so I'll be brief. I'm just signing up for document 5899 and 5898. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u65	Thank you. Mr Martin Novotný will now appear, Mr Václav Horáček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u66	Colleagues and colleagues, I hereby subscribe to House document 5921. I gave a detailed explanation of the amendment earlier in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u67	Thank you, too. Mr. Václav Horáček will now appear and Mr. Jiří Petrů will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u68	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me apply to the amendment by Mrs Langšádlová, who is in the system under number 5770 and which I have explained in detail in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u69	Thank you. Mr Jiří Petrů will now appear, Mrs Věra Kovářová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u70	Good evening again. I sign up for the amendments listed in registers 5724, 5725, 5726, 5727, 5760 and 5839. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u71	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will now appear, Mr Okleštěk will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u72	I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is being conducted in the system under number 5881. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u73	Thank you. Mr Okleštěk now, Mr Klaška will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u74	Thank you for the floor. I am signing up for the amendments that are under the heading 5910 and 5913 in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u75	Thank you. Now, Mr. Klaška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u76	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I would like to read an amendment that is not included in the system, however, it is based on my colleague Rais's amendment, which is set out in the system under the number of House document 5887 and constitutes a minor alternative to it, because it only changes the number of the C.E. from 2024 to 2022 and the whole is read as follows: In Part 1 of the amendment point is inserted: in Section 188 (2) of the Act, the amendment point is inserted: Article 1 (1) is replaced by "31 December 2020'. The other amendment points are outnumbered. The reason for this proposal is, as I have already said, that it constitutes an alternative to the obligation to have a zoning plan for a municipality or a city by the end of this year, because I also like profesor Rais about the city of Brno and I would like to encourage him with this because he does not have a fully completed transport infrastructure. It awaited the principles of territorial development, although the South Moravian Region has already offered cooperation in the past to resolve these issues, such as the railway junction Brno and the connection of the D43 motorway. So I would like to encourage this Brno to take action. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u77	Thank you, too. At this point, I do not see anyone who is enrolled in a detailed debate. I wonder if that's the case. That's right. In that case, I will conclude a detailed debate and ask the Minister, if any, the rapporteur, if you want to take the final floor. Madam Secretary first. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u78	Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u79	I'm gonna ask you to keep your voice down. We have not yet interrupted the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u80	Thank you for the floor. More than 30 colleagues spoke in the general and detailed debate. Thank you very much for your contribution. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-004-020.u81	Thank you, too. I'll read the apologies. 28th. 2. between 14 and 16 o'clock due to negotiations, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa apologizes and then on 28. 2. Mr Pilný apologizes from 18:00 until the end of the meeting for working reasons. I'm done discussing the second reading of this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you and interrupt the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning and wish you a nice rest today.
