ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u1	295. Government bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 990/ - second reading Before I give you my word, Minister, I will ask Mr Václav Klučka, who will be rapporteur for the Security Committee instead of Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová. We do not have to vote, we are at second reading and it is a committee decision that is accepted by the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, the main objective of the proposal is to strengthen the security features of the migration process and mechanisms to prevent abuse of the provisions of the migration process. This is what the government wants to achieve, for example. By amending the frequently abused provisions, by making more effective use of classified information and by amending procedural provisions which do not correspond to the specifics of the residence proceedings for foreigners. The government responds with these measures, among other things, to the initiatives of the Committee on European Affairs, which has asked the government precisely to strengthen the security features of migration processes. Some of the proposed measures are also part of a government package aimed at increasing internal security in the Czech Republic. The proposal also transposes two European Union directives into the Czech legal system, which govern the conditions of residence of third-country nationals. It is for foreigners to be employed as seasonal workers in the Czech Republic and for foreigners to be transferred to the Czech Republic for the performance of a specific qualified post within one company, whose registered office is therefore outside the Czech Republic. It is also proposed to introduce a long-term residence permit for investors planning to carry out a significant investment event in the Czech Republic and to create a fixed number of new jobs within it. These foreign investors will be able to choose between a standard long-term visa for business purposes and this newly introduced residence permit, which will allow them to move to the Czech Republic for two years. The proposal also contains other changes resulting from application practice, which also need to be implemented in the light of the current development of the migration situation. On the one hand, the government's aim is to promote migration so-called. pro-growth, which helps the Czech economy to a reasonable extent, on the other hand strictly adhere to the conditions for maintaining internal security in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u3	I thank the Home Secretary for putting the press on 990, and I note that we have ordered the bill to be discussed by the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 990/1. I ask Mr Václav Klučka, as rapporteur, to inform us of the committee's discussion and, if necessary, to justify the amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, let me read resolution 151 of the Security Committee of the 37th meeting held on 25 January 2017 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, House printing 990: "Committee on Security I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the draft law as amended by the following amendments: 1. In Part One Amendment to the Act on the residence of foreigners in the Czech Republic article. point 164, point 164 is deleted; The other amendment points are outnumbered. 2. In Part 18 of the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011, This law shall take effect on the 15th day following its publication, with the exception of Article 4 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Point 181, which shall take effect on the first day of the 13th calendar month following the date of its publication. II. He instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. III. It empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic." This is the whole resolution that I am still going to sign up for in detail in order to vote on these amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his speech and open the debate. I have two applications for it, the first is Mr Ludvík Hovorka, and then the rapporteur is entered properly in the debate with his speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u6	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, honourable members of the Government, honourable Members, honourable Members, I would just like to briefly touch on one matter relating to § 180j, and this is proof of travel health insurance during a stay of over 90 days. The situation of third-country foreigners who apply for a stay in our territory has recently improved significantly by the increased use of commercial health insurance provided by commercial insurance companies, including VZP, the so-called PVZP and s. Nevertheless, in a number of cases, many individuals are not covered by health insurance during the possible hospitalization of third-country foreigners, and the costs of their treatment become impregnable claims from hospitals that have provided them with medical care. I believe that there is a solution to this problem, namely a certain change in § 180j. Section 180j in paragraph 3 states that, in the case of insurance concluded abroad, a foreigner at the same time as the travel health insurance document referred to in paragraph 3. (a) officially certified translations of insurance contracts and general insurance terms into the Czech language proving the conclusion of travel health insurance, but in particular the extent of insurance, the limit of insurance and the fulfilment of EUR 60 000 and the fact that the insurance is concluded without the participation of the insured person. A (b) upon request, proof of payment of insurance premiums for the entire period of stay required in the territory. This means that if the competent official decides to request the document, the foreigner concerned shall submit it and shall be checked. But basically, if it is only on request, it may happen that in a number of cases the document is not presented and the stranger does not have insurance. [[16.40 hours]] I think the solution is to remove the word "on request" and require, in any case, that the person to process the document - simply to provide proof of payment of insurance premiums for the entire period of stay required. It's in the law to have it. It's just freedom that a clerk can do it, but he doesn't have to want it. So I suggest that the words "on request" be deleted from that letter (b). This would mean that point (b) would mean that they must provide proof of payment of insurance premiums for the entire period of stay required in the territory. I think that this is a rational requirement and that this amendment, which I will then make in a detailed debate, should be adopted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u7	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Mr. Václav Klučka is now registered and before him, Mr. Plzák, with a factual remark, is likely to speak to Mr. Hovorka. So I'm gonna let him react. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. My colleagues, my colleagues, I listened to my colleague Hovorka. It's got one trick to it. However, such a matter concerns - and as a health care professional I know it - especially the citizens of Ukraine and they can, of course, be insured for a certain period. But they often stay here illegally for a long time. And they're the ones who get those injuries when they work black on construction sites. And I don't know if we have any solution to this. Of course, I support that, as you said, but here it would probably deserve some deeper analysis and a deeper intervention in how we are going to deal with these illegal workers. And, of course, as paramedics, we know that we can never refuse to help them, and sometimes it involves really serious injuries. It's on the verge of humanity and some economy, and those hospitals are really carrying it and they're gonna pay for it from their own. And we know what the financial situation in the health sector looks like. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u9	Thank you for keeping time on the point of fact, and I will ask my colleague Klučka to wait. Mr Hovorka will also respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u10	Thank you for the floor. I understand the objection. But this isn't about whether a foreigner has the insurance or doesn't have the entire time of his stay. He's the relevant section saying that the insurance is basically supposed to be for the entire stay. And in that law, it's just that he's obliged to submit it on demand. So it's about whether or not the competent clerk who's handling this calls for it. So it's just that the document is always required. So that's the point of the amendment. And otherwise, the commercial insurance isn't available to those people. It's not something they can't get. And as I was saying, things are getting better, but there are still a lot of people who don't have insurance. So I think that if there was a change in the law and that document was always checked, there's a higher chance that more people would have the insurance closed. Of course, the fact that there may be a situation where the insurance will not be or the stay will be longer than it was originally declared can occur. But we can't influence the fact that this guy stays here longer and maybe he's working in some relationship that's not an employment relationship based on a proper contract. I don't think we can influence that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u11	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka and Mr Václav Klučka, who has already duly signed up. We are in the general debate at second reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I personally very much and very much welcome the draft law on the residence of foreigners. The proposal brings a number of positive changes and responds to shortcomings in current legislation. In particular, it is a regulation of management with foreigners, taking much more account of the internal security of the Czech Republic in the context of migration risks and flows at the moment. However, I believe, and please do not take this the wrong way, that in some ways the bill could have been presented more courageously by the plaintiff and could have come up with stronger solutions that always create certain risks in relation to the implementation of the management practice. I will propose some of these solutions to you in my amendment. The aim of this proposal, which I will sign up for in a detailed debate, is primarily to strengthen the security of the Czech Republic. Furthermore, I propose some relief to the state administration, which consists in simplifying the process conducted with a foreigner, and in part it is also a defence against the abuse of the law in the area of economic migration. As far as the specific content of the amendment is concerned, there are several things that are mentioned in the amendment. Classified information will not be included in the file and will therefore not be able to be consulted. Foreigners will only add the originals of their documents to the applications. It will make it much easier to detect counterfeits. In the event of the abolition of a foreigner's residence, who committed a deliberate offence, for example, submitted forged and amended documents or provided false data, the adequacy of the impact of the proceedings on private and family life will no longer be assessed. The number of cases where a stranger is obliged to submit an application in person and only in person will be increased. The government gets a better overview of the alien's identity. It is then a measure to lighten the state administration, such as an extension of the number of circumstances in which the proceedings will be terminated and no decision on a case must be made on a case-by-case basis. For example, when a stranger does not cooperate with an administrative authority. Court proceedings, which can no longer in practice bring any change to the status of a foreigner, will stop. For example, a foreigner will be released from security in the meantime. Then this is another matter, and that is the exclusion of judicial review. If they do not have to decide, there will be two courts in the administrative courts to lighten the state administration and the judicial system. The review of the decision of the Ministry of the Interior is already carried out by an independent committee for decision-making in matters of residence of foreigners. In the case of negative decisions, the travelling of a foreigner from the territory of the Czech Republic will thus accelerate. Let me sum it up a little bit more. By waiting for a judicial decision, the time is constantly extended when a foreigner is to leave the Republic. And that's a big problem. Measures in the area of economic migration. For example, there is the fact that a series of partial measures aimed at untrustworthy employers appear in the amendment. The employer will be required not to have debts to the State, not to be in bankruptcy and to have its registered office real. [[16.50 hours]] That's just some information about the amendment. Please don't worry about his size. He's really on 22 sides. We worked very closely with the Home Office until this morning. I gave it in the morning, this amendment. It's prepared to be legislatively impeccable. Otherwise, the larger part is merely and only the justification for the short things that change in that law. Thank you for your attention. I will sign up for this proposal in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u13	I thank Mr Václav Klučka for his speech in the general debate. I ask who goes on to the general debate. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. We will continue with the debate in detail. Before I begin, Mrs Věra Kovářová asked for an extension of her apology from today's meeting day until 17:00. I am now opening up a detailed debate and Mr Ludvík Hovorka is the first to be joined. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u14	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby declare the amendment under number 5835 to this press, which I have put into the system. This is a change to this law. In the provisions of Section 180j in point 3 (a). (b) the words "on request" shall be deleted. Since it is brief, I will say what the new text will look like: "§ 180j point 3 letter. (b) it is therefore new: proof of payment of insurance premiums for the entire period of stay required in the territory'. Justification for this amendment. This amendment will ensure that, when applying for a stay in the territory, it is always and not only on request that applicants are properly insured for the entire duration of their stay in the territory, and will help significantly protect health care providers from impregnable claims, the means of our health insurance system, and, above all, the foreigners themselves, who, if necessary, will have health insurance properly secured. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u15	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Now, Mr Václav Klučka, with his amendment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u16	Thank you. Now, let me just read first the resolution 990/1, the resolution of the Security Committee, and then the resolution in the system under number 5813, which is an amendment which I have informed you of, which is as a whole, being divided into 14 sub-letters, so it is up to the guarantee committee to proceed to the negotiations and then to the recommendations of the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-009-295.u17	I thank Mr Václav Klučka and ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. The rapporteur is also not interested. Since there has been no procedural proposal, which can be voted on at second reading, I conclude with paragraph 295. We will continue with paragraph 6, which is the next item on our approved agenda. It's about
