ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u1	17. Government bill amending Act No. 477/2001 Coll., on Packaging and Amendment of Certain Acts (Law on Packaging), as amended /German press 877/ - second reading I will also ask Mr Josef Nekl to take the position at the rapporteur's table as rapporteur for this press. On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Minister for the Environment will be presented by Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u2	Thank you, Mr President. And I will really be very brief in order to get to the other colleagues, and I wasn't just the lucky one that got to the points today. I would just like to remind you, I think that we have already discussed this very closely in the debate at first reading, that the main objective is the transposition of the directive of the European Parliament and therefore a clear interest in limiting the use of light plastic bags, as it is directly called, a lightweight plastic carry-on bag, which is the overwhelming majority of what we are probably getting today, but mostly no longer free of charge, in stores, with those lightweight plastic bags removed from this obligation, aka bags, which are then e.g. for pastries, possibly for some meat products, and they should not be regulated in this way. Europe has been going in this direction for some time now. Even some countries are even more active and aggressive. For example, France, not to mention the Nordic states. In the Czech Republic, we would like to go the way that has been set for several years by a number of chains, which have charged these lightweight plastic bags. And I have to say that their consumption also decreased quite fundamentally at that point. And I think that's right, because they're plastics, which are due to their very often one-time use, so then they weigh heavily on the environment, not only in countries of some origin, but then by actually entering rivers into the sea. Today there is an incredible amount of plastic packaging in the world's seas, oceans. That's probably the main part. I don't think there was any major debate about that in committee either. There is also talk of new recycling targets and the total use of packaging waste in Annex No. 3. There's been a debate here before. There are various suggestions for softening those targets. I would just like to say very briefly that we support those objectives so in the original proposal, because those targets are already being achieved in the majority of today, or in almost all cases, in the individual commodities. And it would seem a little anachronism to us to set targets lower than those that have already been achieved in recent years. Regardless of the fact that we also need them in the waste management plan and we further promote them and support them mainly for the area of plastics, glass, paper, and municipalities, in other nests. The Čech are on top of recycling of these raw materials today. So, of course, we note that there have been amendments, and they will certainly be discussed here. But we would like to keep those, in our opinion, not very ambitious targets in the individual commodities that are already being met today. Well, I guess that's just for starters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u3	I thank Minister Richard Brabco for his opening words. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House Press 877/1. At this point, I will ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Mr Josef Nekl, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u4	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the packaging law. As rapporteur, however, I will take the liberty of having a small entrée, a little introduction. This material was submitted or sent to the Chamber of Deputies on 25 July 2016. On 9 November 2016, we discussed the draft law in the first reading and, at the Minister's request, I recommended that the hearing be reduced to 30 days. The environmental guarantee committee complied with this term, even shortened it and we discussed this draft law on 29 November last year. Today is February 1, 2017 and we are already in second reading. I am concerned about this, and I wonder why the government wants to speed up its bill first, and then through the Organizing Committee it is not even able to ensure that it is discussed on the basis of the requirements of the Ministry of Environment, and why it has to be put forward as a fixed point of the programme in order to be discussed at all. It's just an entrée. Otherwise, the Minister spoke here about the discussion both in committee and with comments. I would just like to refer to the resolution of the Committee on the Environment of the 39th meeting of 29 November, which you have included as Parliamentary Press 877/1, where there is also a recommended and reasoned amendment to the Committee on the Environment, in particular Table 3 and some others tabled by colleagues. So, for now, I'd like to put an end to my intelligence report. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u5	I thank the rapporteur and open a general debate. Mr Jan zahradník joined the general debate first. I have no other application for a general debate at second reading yet. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I have signed up for the general debate to perhaps justify a little more extensive my amendments, which I will apply for support at third reading. So first of all, let me remind you that this law has two parts. First of all, the medially mentioned, often tilted part of plastic bags and the obligation to charge these bags. Here I must say that I have no reservations about this part and I will, of course, recommend to my colleagues its support. I think we need this intervention here. I would just maybe argue a little bit with the Minister, who gives examples of states where even harder regulation is needed and where the failure to buy everything and to give everything free plastic bag is perhaps regulated by artificial means. Perhaps it should be said that there are also states where citizens are able to provide for this regulation themselves by taking a network shopping bag for purchase and not requiring plastic carrier bags. So I'm here to support it. Finally, we know that the production price of these plastic bags is in the order of pennies, so that the limit of law can be fulfilled without any problems and burden to the public. Today, each of us is used to buying that bag at the supermarket, I don't know, for five six crowns, depending on how the chain decides to sell it. Maybe in other segments of the store, we think we're getting this bag for free. It's not like that. Of course, the electronics salesman or some kind of sports equipment is gonna add up to that price. So direct charging is appropriate. Then there's the second question, and that's the question of Annex No. 3 which defines the required extent of recycling and the total use of packaging waste. Here again, I would like to argue with the Minister, who is quite using clear arguments when he says that we are actually fulfilling those limits. That we should be more ambitious. It reminds me, as if we were pursuing some top-notch position in the premiere rankings of a school class and tried to achieve those high places even at the cost of perhaps some risk that overstretched demands can bring on themselves. [[12.10 hours]] I have put forward three proposals to amend Table No. 3. Specifically. The first proposal concerns paper and cardboard waste, which is recycled from 85 percent, but there are certain risks. The first risk is that more and more difficult to recyclable types of paper packaging are being used, especially so called. soaking cardboard which aims to replace polystyrene fillings of boxes with electronics, especially after the European Commission has issued a regulation limiting the use of polystyrene as such packaging material. And these types of paper are hard to recycle. Similarly, laminated papers, laminated parts of paper packaging, which, although aesthetically and somehow usefully improve the quality, are also hard to recycle, but on the other hand, make their recycling problematic. Here the recycling rate depends on the cyclical development of the economy. It should be said that when the last decline in paper production occurred in 2012, recycling was reduced by more than a tenth, which is quite a crucial thing to keep that percentage limit. The European Commission currently requires only 60% recycling, this is the whip held over us by the European Union, and it is planning an increase of more than 70 percent up to 2025. We ourselves have set a limit of 75 per cent, or we will be highly above the demands of the European Union, if we reduce, as I propose, this number from 75 per cent to 73 per cent. It's a little different in glass recycling. The Ministry of the Environment itself states that recycling of glass packaging has long been slightly above 72 percent, which corresponds to the statistically established participation of citizens in glass sorting. It's very stable, so it turns into one percent per year. Thus, the degree of glass recycling is clearly linked to the willingness of the population to participate in the sorting process. Here, unlike the previous item, most of the glass waste is consumer and not industrial. And increasing the extent of the population's willingness to recycle glass is a social process that can't just sort of be accelerated by a figure in the table. The recycling of glass packaging exceeded 75 per cent only once, when bottles in the brewery industry changed in 2012 in bulk. For this reason, too, and also because the European Commission requires a minimum recycling rate of 60 per cent, I propose that we go from 75 to 73 per cent. My last proposal concerns an item called "total" in that table. In addition to recycling and further use, this overall use also includes energy use. And since there are still problems with this waste treatment method, it is not possible to simply build new equipment for energy recovery, and if it succeeds, it comes across relatively considerable resistance from environmental organisations. And it is also a problem in itself as such, how large combustion units build, whether it is true that the limit of 100,000 tonnes per year is an economic limit for the profitability of such equipment, or whether it is possible to start supporting some smaller equipment, even existing after appropriate reconstruction, combustion plants for the energy recovery of waste. So the energy use here still can't meet the proper expectations, and that's why the gross total recycling was on the shoulders of the recycling itself, the sorting and separation itself. Therefore, I propose that in column B in the row "total', i.e. in the last line, the figure should be reduced from 80 to 75 per cent, which will again significantly exceed the limit imposed on us by the European Commission. I have thus justified my proposal here, and in a detailed debate after that I will only apply to the proposal and I will not repeat the reasoning. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u7	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. This was the only one entered into the general debate. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the general debate. No one is reporting, so I can end the general debate. There was no proposal that we could vote on. I'm asking for final words. It's not like that. We can open the debate in detail. And before I give the floor to Mr Zahradník in a detailed debate, he is the first to be entered, and I state Mr Tomio Okamura's apology between 12.10 and 13.00 of today's day. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u8	Mr Vice-President, I am signing up for the amendment which I have introduced you, colleagues and colleagues, and which has been inserted into the system under number 5335.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u9	Thank you. Now, Mrs Golasowská, Mr Böhnisch will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I sign up for an amendment amending Act No.477/2001 Coll., on Packaging. It will be led as House Press 877 and in documents we will find it under number 5642. I will simply give a brief explanation of the fact that it is actually added in § 3 para. 3, which reads: "A light plastic carry-on bag and a very light carry-on bag may be granted to the consumer at the point of sale at least for reimbursement of costs corresponding to the cost of the purchase of the product.' This means that the government bill on the charging of lightweight plastic carrier bags also extends the charging of very lightweight plastic carrier bags, which are actually rolls bags, as the Minister spoke of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Golasowská. Now, Mr Robin Böhnisch, in a detailed debate. And I see another application, Mr Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would initially just like to refer to House document 5655, but he has not yet appeared in the system of this press, so I will present my amendment to the microphone. The amendment is as follows: One. in point 3, point (n) is deleted; The present point (o) shall be referred to as point (n). Two. in point 4, the words "light plastic' are replaced by the words "plastic'. Let me give you a brief explanation. The reason why the directive proposed by the proposal was proposed is to prevent the generation of unnecessary waste in the form of free carry-on bags. The text of the directive is primarily focused on light carry-on bags. However, in terms of environmental protection, there is no reason for the restriction to provide such bags free of charge to apply only to light bags. On the contrary, such a narrow concept can motivate sellers to provide only bags that are stronger than 50 microns and which, according to the submitted government proposal, need not be charged. At present, most food-selling chains charge these stronger carryable bags. They are not usually charged in stores selling clothing and other consumer goods. The proposed change will not bring significant effects on consumers with regard to the price ratio of the bag and the goods purchased. With the experience of chain stores that have introduced the charging of carryable bags, they point to a clear effect in limiting the amount of bags consumed. So much justification. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u13	I thank Mr Robin Böhnisch and now, for a detailed debate, Mr Milan Urban. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to sign up for the amendment, which is listed in the system under number 5423. It is basically another alternative table proposal for your consideration, as Mr Zahradník has justified here, with the fact that he does not change our overall commitments, but, say, he proposes another alternative to fulfilling commitments in individual time horizons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-007-017.u15	I thank Mr Milan Urban and ask if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case; I am ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. Neither does the rapporteur. There is no proposal for a vote in a detailed debate, so I can end item 17. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and we will continue our negotiations, points from the first reading block. The fixed point in the first reading block is point 41. It's...
