ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u1	59. Government bill amending Act No. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance, as amended /house print 1018 - first reading On behalf of the Government, Miloslav Ludvík, Minister of Health, will present the proposal. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. The content of this proposal, which is commonly referred to as short-term valuation, is the increase in insurance premiums for public health insurance paid by the State for state insured persons for the years 2019 and 2020. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] In view of the possible length of the legislative process, an increase in insurance premiums for state insured persons will be ensured for the next year by means of a government regulation whose proposal is currently in an inter-ministerial commentary procedure and which the government has to approve by 30 June this year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u3	Minister, I'm sorry. Once again, I'm registering elevated noise levels. I know what class it is, but I need your attention. Let's keep it down. Let's hear from the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u4	Thank you, Mr President. I'll be quick. The draft law presented explicitly indicates the amounts of the relevant assessment base from which insurance premiums will be counted as state insured persons during the years in question. These annual increases in the payment for state insured people will require about CZK 3.5 billion per year. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of this proposal is not merely the formal fulfilment of another part of the Government's programming declaration. The proposed adjustment is primarily one of the steps to contribute to the medium-term stabilisation of the financing of the public health insurance system and thus to the stabilisation of the Czech health care system itself. I note that the estimated costs that will need to be covered next year in the context of an increase in health insurance expenditure are somewhere around CZK 12 to 13 billion and the growth of the economy is at this point providing us with approximately CZK 9 billion. So these 3.5 billion crowns, which are already being proposed here in some way, fit exactly into the diagram of how the increase in other expenditures on medicine will look, especially here I stress a very explosive increase in expenditures on expensive medicines. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support the proposal and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading, Mr Rostislav Vyzula. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Let me comment very briefly on this issue, which is very important in terms of health. Basically, it is a regular valorisation of the payment for state insured persons into the public health insurance system. The target solution should bring about a transparent and predictable development of the level of insurance premiums paid by the State for a group of state insured persons, which is currently about 6 million people, in particular in relation to the current development of the macroeconomic situation. The solution should take into account, in particular, the growth of gross domestic product, the amount of payment for state insured persons should increase at least as much as GDP. Furthermore, the development of insurance contributions for other groups, such as employees, self-employed persons, OBZP and others, so as to avoid any further increase in the difference between state insured persons and these groups. And for further, gradual approximation of the state's health spending to at least the average of European countries in the OECD. This is what is often criticized as we are deep below the costs of the OECD average. The others, I think, were quite clearly said by the Minister. In this context, I would just like to draw attention not to you, but to the Czech Medical Chamber, which repeatedly attacks the government and legislator that it does nothing to improve the financial situation in health care, this is one of the examples that clearly sets the situation at a completely different level. And I ask the leadership of the Czech Medical Chamber to avoid the future of similar impertinences, which are of a personal nature and totally undignified Czech Medical Chambers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, in which Mr Leoš Heger, Mr Kováčik, joined first. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello again. I'll take the liberty of making a small exception, and I'll perform not in a matter of fact, but politically. Since the Minister has only been in office for about two months, it may still go beyond his predecessor, but as part of the study of this law, I have discovered one interesting thing that I would like to present here. As far as the law is concerned, I agree with him, I will support him, and I think it is a general feeling that, at a time when there is a conjucture in the country, a gross domestic product is rising, that it should flow to health care for state insured people more money. The problem I want to criticize here is technical, because the argument for increasing health resources is based on long-term statistics, and in these statistics and world-wide, the key parameter is the percentage of gross domestic product that goes into health care, and this index divides countries into poor, middle-ranking, and rich countries. And the rich have the index higher. The United States somewhere between 16 and 18 percent. We used to have it somewhere between 6.5 and 7.5 percent, and we were the best in Central European countries, but gradually it got worse. There has been a downturn in the economic crisis, and it has been quoted last year as a downturn that is not improving in our positive economic situation. To my surprise, when I opened the 2014 and 2015 yearbook of the UHIS that came out of 11. 1. this year both together, before that year's periodic edition was somewhat defective and some simply weren't released in time, so it could still be tolerated in the new management of the SÚKL and radical changes that are taking place there, but the content of the two new last yearbooks is very strange. I met with this in January, when I studied the distribution of costs for individual age groups of patients, which differed greatly in both yearbooks, and there were material errors, there were numbers that represented something completely different from the costs for individual age groups, although this was declared. What I've discovered now is another weird thing. The figure in Chapter 6 of both yearbooks, which describes international comparisons, is depicted by the development of the index I was talking about from gross domestic product going into health care, so it was decreasing from 2009 to 2011, then began to rise and slightly decreased at the end of 2014. So all of a sudden, the change isn't a drop, it's a climb. But the weird thing is, in both years, that line is exactly the same, it's just been shifted a year. So there's a manifest error. I don't want to push the Ministry into any deliberate manipulation or political influence on the statistics. Rather, I think that there is a mess at the SÚKL, and it is necessary to radically check what is going on there, because even in the explanatory report there are no figures as the gross domestic product index behaves, because this is the main argument that it has declined in recent years, so the main argument that it is necessary to strengthen the state ingersence, because it has declined not only as an overall index, but also as an index when only public resources are taken, while suddenly it is all completely different. So please ask the Minister to take a look at it. Otherwise, the law, as it is presented, I will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another enrollment is Mr Kováčik. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a few comments, but really at this time only a few very short points. Perhaps not so much in the account of the substance, although I partly touch it, but also in the account of the overall situation of the overall contexts in which similar proposals are now presented. I must say that it is clear that this is a time of true election, and that, therefore, those proposals that are more or less screams that promise in the spirit of the slogan "no one can give you more than I can promise you" appear more and more often. I consider this one to be one of them. And for one simple reason. True, there have been promises, the reduction of the protective limits on the surcharges for children and seniors, the creation of an investment fund at the Ministry of Health, from which investment in hospitals, which are long-term underfunded, is, of course, not enough just public health insurance revenue. The pay raise, the nurses' wages. Or just this proposal, which will increase payments for state insured persons for 2018 and for the next two years also by means of the law and which is submitted only now. The question is what will happen after 2020. Are we going to go back to the same degree of predictable income of the system as we do now? I'm just reminding you that, whether it's said here, of course, and clearly that only the regular automatic valorisation of payments for state insured people, and we've repeatedly suggested it here, and we have six million plus one million people with income below 20 thousand. CZK a month is one of the very few really effective tools to ensure the predictability of income and stabilization of the health system as a public service while ensuring the quality of the necessary health care for all patients, as guaranteed by the Constitution. Although the current government coalition has put forward this proposal, it has only now submitted it, and I remind you that the KSČM proposal, which is under the House's press 721, which we have repeatedly proposed to include at a time when, let's say, from 17. 2nd last year, i.e. There's this proposal for a year, so you've never been involved, you've never been discussed, and the system is complex, it's systemical, and it could have worked already, let's say, in the proverbial slowness of the legislative process, at least six months ago it could have been. In this way, I must say that I am concerned that the legislative process will be completed in this case. And although the proposal bears all the attributes I have criticized, even though it is a very partial solution, the KSČM club will support this proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if Mr. Stanjura, Mr. Kaňkovský, has any more... with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u12	Thank you for the floor. There is such a conciliatory atmosphere just before we conclude today's negotiations, so allow me to respond to the words of my honourable fellow Member, Mr Heger, as is generally accepted, that this is a good thing - so that is not so. It's not widely accepted. And first of all, and it's a coincidence, my colleagues and colleagues from the YES movement are sitting in front of me, and for three and a half years I've been hearing from your chairman how it's wasted in the health system, how money can't be raised, that we need to find the internal reserves first. Not that I don't agree with that. But then comes the proposal for social democracy to increase payments for state insured people, and every year it passes, now it even goes away. So if I was talking this morning about increasing the state's mandatory spending by about 800 miles. Kroner, so here we are increasing the state's mandatory spending much more. I think it doesn't mean that when there is economic growth, payments for civil servants are automatically to increase, because this bill doesn't reflect the state's economic situation. This will be the same in the period of growth as in the period of recession. It's like a recession. So, once again, before the election, we're increasing the state's mandatorial spending, and the next finance minister, whoever it is, will have less room for manoeuvre to prepare the state budget, because first he'll have to calculate what he has to spend under the law, and then really, if I take out the mandatorial and pseudomandatorial expenses, then he'll have to figure out what he can really influence politically, a sum of 200, a maximum of 300 billion. Crowns. Everything else is de facto in advance. So I'm not suggesting any rejection today, but consider whether that's the right bill. If the reserves are all removed, if all this was wasted - and I quote Minister Babiš, so it is not that the opposition here is speaking with this proposal. I quote from public sources only the Minister of Finance. But on the other hand, there's some logic to the proposal. We'll increase the payments for civil servants - insured people, I'm sorry, I'm really sorry, that's what I wanted to say at the end. We will increase the payments for state insured people, so we could increase the salaries of doctors as well, and the Minister and his party come up with a proposal: We will tax them more immediately! Really, aren't you a member of social democracy, Minister? I think you're a member of social democracy. I have not noticed your dramatic statement that you do not agree with Prime Minister Sobotka, who proposes taxing doctors up to 32 percent. I didn't! Maybe I wasn't paying attention. If you can come up on the microphone right now and say, "I'm against it! I support a flat tax! Let me give you a round of applause. But I don't think that's gonna happen. So the message for the middle class, including the doctors from the Social Democrats, is: We'll increase your salaries, but don't worry about what to do with the money! We're gonna take a lot more from you in taxes! Well, don't buy it, it's such a bargain! But in this logic, you have to increase the payment for state insured people so that you can raise your salaries so that you can get more taxes and then say, "Look at what nice tax revenues we have!" So there's some logic to this proposal. It's a logic that we reject, of course. That's what I'd say to falsely give someone the hope that they'll raise their salary, because what's important is a clean salary, what we're gonna say to each other. And when the economy grows, more money automatically goes into health care. We have more employees, we have more health insurance payers, we have more salaries, so the amount of insurance paid increases. This is the advantage of being a boomer, even for health care, but also for social and other areas. You, however, have stepped up to the simplest solution. You are not looking for efficiency, you are not thinking about how to organize Czech health care. Maybe you're thinking, my colleague Pavel Blažek says it's my favorite. [[unintelligible]] What does the Minister do? He's thinking! And he thinks and thinks all the time. And what's he gonna come up with after thinking? Increasing the expenses of the law's mentors, easy, not even thinking about it, is enough for a three-member. So, just so you know, not everyone agrees with this bill, not everyone agrees to increase the mandatorial expenses, and we will certainly come up with some suggestions in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u13	Thank you. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Leoš Heger. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u14	Thank you. When it's Friday afternoon, as I've heard, I'll be very brief. Of course, I am with my colleague Stanjura at the same right-wing pole of our political spectrum, but unlike him, I often speak here for health and for his benefit. So you have to say to the half that he's partly right about, the other half. That the system was very atypical with us. That there is a contribution of about 40 per cent to economic earners, while state insured people are about 60 per cent, if I simplify it. That's what we've been doing since the early '90s, this system. And if the system is to be sustainable for health care, it must increase with health requirements not only the amount that economic active insured people contribute, but also the amount that the other insured people should pay. And since it has been decided that senior citizens will not pay with us, that is completely legitimate, prisoners will not pay with us, children will not pay with us, so they simply have to compensate the state, otherwise health is fluctuating and someone still says that it is a black hole and that its efficiency needs to be increased. This has increased very significantly, but it is not possible to increase it by 5% each year. As a person who knows economics, he knows well that it has its inertia. So if health care is to survive long-term, the amount of the state must increase. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u15	I thank you for the exact use of time and now Mr. Kaňkovský with an application from... [[Messenger. Kaňkovský draws attention to the priority of the messenger. Stanjury.]] Oh, I got Mr. Stanjura's point of view. It's yours. I didn't notice. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u16	So I'm sorry I was talking about half of it, and I'm still partly right. Then I'm only about 25 percent. I'm so sorry. I think the percentage is higher, but that's not important. I do not question the fact that one of the important attributes of financing and the functioning of the health network is the payment for state insured persons. I'm just saying it's the easiest one. This government is using it repeatedly, and politically cleverly into the more complex and controversial, I must appreciate that, it does not. We have had very complex debates about standards and overstandards, DRG system etc. That's what keeps happening around here. Political courage - long term - is lacking. I'm not saying it's just in the last three years. I say long-term lack of political courage. But we have a fiction here that health care is free. Very often my left-wing colleagues say that, but that's not true! If I simplify it, it's about 250 billion a year. We're talking about more taxpayers' money here. And if we say they're economically active paying your health insurance, which is true, I think the percentage is a little bit higher, but I don't want to argue about that, then who pays the taxes that then pay the state insurance payments? It's economically active again. And now I'm talking about direct taxes, indirect taxes all pay. But direct taxes, and they are not small, are roughly 240 to 250 billion per year in the state budget, only economically active again. So the argument isn't entirely complete or entirely true that the state... The state doesn't make any money, it doesn't have any money. It merely collects from taxpayers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u17	Thank you. I made it a priority right because I didn't press those two minutes. Now, Mr. Kaňkovský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u18	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also briefly comment on the present House of Press 1018, which is the Government's bill amending Law No 1018. 592/1992 Coll., on insurance against public health insurance. I can say that I am glad that, after a lot of difficult negotiations, the government has managed to agree at least to stabilise public health insurance in connection with payments for state insured persons. Unfortunately, this is not so much the necessary automatic valorisation of payments for state insured persons tied to the economic condition of the Czech Republic. In this context, it is important to remember what the Minister mentioned here, and these are the steeply increasing costs of some therapeutic modalities, such as biological treatment, but also some modern medical technologies. It is also necessary to take into account the necessary valorisation of health care workers' wages, to which the government has already committed and which is currently essential if we do not want to further deepen the personnel deficit in our healthcare facilities. And it is the lack of personnel that is the threat that threatens the further functioning of our health care. But, here I will follow up on my colleague Vyzula and perhaps even a little bit on my colleague Zbyněk Stanjura, Czech health care needs more substantial changes in the financing of health care. We still have not reached the definition of the basic network of health facilities, we are stagnating with steps to ensure greater efficiency in health care provision, and since it is still before some elections, we are closing our ears on the OECD reports and other international institutions regarding the percentage of GDP spent on health care, and we do not want to hear anything about the failing rates of patient participation. So, in conclusion, I want to say that KDU-ČSL will support this amendment until further reading, but it is fair to say that we have barely stayed halfway. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Kováčik. He's got it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'm not gonna make you happy. You must have thought, as if you'd overlooked my application for a factual remark, that I'd give up. No, just for a little while. Yes, halfway. Really, I agree, but it's better halfway than not getting on that trip at all. And as I said before, the point is that there is a need for certainty in the future in funding, and that six million plus one million low-income insured people is a huge sum of people and a huge amount of money coming from the state into the system, and that it is necessary to anticipate what is available. But I agree with my colleague, for example, in the fact that we have not been able for years to arrive at the determination, nor at all at any method of establishing the basic network, etc. etc. But I wanted to respond first of all to what Mr Stanjura, President of ODS, said here about left-wing mapping or left-wing error that health care is free. It says in the Constitution that health care is free, but he didn't say what we say anymore on the basis of public health insurance. So we're not saying and we're not saying that health care is free, but we're just saying what the Constitution says, and everything else, if we don't change the Constitution, is out, and some even say unconstitutional. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u21	Thank you. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the general debate. I see no one, I end the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in the final word. He does. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u22	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I will be quick. Just for a few previous speakers. The Minister doesn't think. Too bad there's no coworker here anymore - there's a colleague who asked me to do it. He doesn't have time for this at the Ministry. The minister is looking. And at this point, the needs that will be needed next year look about 15 billion. So the 12 billion, including these 3.5, aren't enough, so we're going to have to really mobilize about the 2 billion I found in that system as a reserve. For this year alone, I found a half-billion-dollar reserve to increase nurses' salaries by CZK 2,000. So from this point of view, it really works. And then I really want to say one thing. After all, what my colleague Heger said was also the Minister of Health. Unfortunately, we've got the system built on state insurance payments today. That's right, because he balances what he doesn't get out of paying only four million people. And I would like to say, as a very final point, that even under the ODS ministers, and I really remember a lot, the payments for state insured people have increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u23	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur? He's interested in the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u24	Thank you. Just a factual matter, and that is that there has been no rejection during the debate, no motion for a return, and I therefore recommend that the House give this law to the commandment as a guarantee committee of the Health Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-008-059.u25	Thank you to the rapporteur. Yes, he's right, none of these proposals were made. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee committee? It's not like that. So we can proceed to the vote. I've already summoned my colleagues from the lobby. I think I'd better check you out so we can... [[He's waiting for a while.]] I'll ask you to sign in and we'll proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a guarantee committee? Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this proposal, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? Voting 158, 92 Members registered, for 90, against none. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the health committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to another committee or committees to discuss? I can't see. So I'm saying that no other committee has been proposed, nor has there been any proposal to shorten the deadline. I'm done discussing this point, I'm closing this point. And given the announced agreement of the club presidents, I am interrupting this meeting for Tuesday next week, that will be February 28th at 14.00 when we continue with paragraph 283. I wish you all a nice, relaxing weekend. Goodbye.
