ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u1	63. Government bill on foreign service and amending some laws (the Foreign Service Act) /German press 994 - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u2	Hello, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, allow me, as has been said, to present to you today a draft law on foreign service, which is quite an extraordinary thing for me to do here today with this law. Because, in fact, the Czech Republic is one of the few countries that does not have a similar law. I think that the vast majority, I can say, of the countries of Europe has a similar special law on foreign service. We're really one of the last ones that doesn't have one. And I am glad that we have managed to get this job so far that today I can bring this bill before you. I think the time for the adoption of such a law has been ripe for quite a long time here, so I can say that it has really ripened for the adoption of that law now, because the preparation took almost, I would say, decades. And now the time is very important or changed, and maybe the urgency is greater than ever, for some basic reasons. The first is that we have adopted and approved the Civil Service Act, which has been adopted, but the law, as is of course confirmed, does not address the peculiarities of foreign service. This is a need to rotate people, which is something that has no equivalent anywhere else, at any other resort. And the specifics that relate to all the peculiarities that people who work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs often have to leave and return, and go to countries that are often distant, need to deal with the issue of family members and a number of other things. Trouble we just don't have anywhere else. And then there is another circumstance that has been added to this, very important, and that is a Union amendment, or the EU directive that has been adopted, on consular assistance to the countries of the unrepresented states. To explain what's going on. It is, in fact, a Union directive that says that if a state, for example, does not have a European Union representation in a country, it can use the consular services of another EU state. And now the point is that in order to implement this directive, we need to have defined consular services that the Czech Republic provides so that we can offer them from other states, and that does not actually exist in our country at the moment. While we have some internal directive at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which we regulate, a citizen is entitled to it in the consular service when he finds himself in an unpleasant situation abroad, but it is only an internal directive, it does not actually take the form of a law. And now we're in a situation where we're supposed to meet this from the point of view of EU demands, and we're not read anywhere. And working on this foreign service law has given us the opportunity to introduce for the first time these obligations that the state is taking on in the area of consular service. So that's another reason, quite strong, which is also for us to finally mature today, to complete the long ripening of the Foreign Service Act by having a fetus here that we can finally reap. So this is another argument why I think we should continue not to prolong this situation, where we do not have specifics of foreign service anywhere captured, included, taken into account and when we are actually still dealing with ad hoc and improvised paths and agreements with the Ministry of Finance and so on. It's just an abnormal condition. This is what I think we should not prolong, and we should adopt the Foreign Service Act. I think we have presented it to you here in a form that we have worked honestly on, and we are now ready to hold a debate. We are ready to lead it in committees. And in advance, I am calling on just a few things that may be worth mentioning, because this will certainly be of interest to the Members who will deal with this law. You would certainly ask whether the Foreign Service Act allows ambassadors and ambassadors to be sent abroad also persons who are not in service at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So I am answering the possible questions here, yes, that this law will make it possible for ambassadors to be broadcast even those who are not in employment with the State Department, as it is in many other countries of the world. Here we found a way to use the duality of the service - employment to create an opportunity for receiving even those who come from outside. Of course, it has to be a proper procedure between the Prime Minister, the President and so on. But it is possible to appoint an ambassador as one who is not in employment at the State Department. [[14.40 hours]] What else could I possibly mention? The crucial thing is what I have already indicated is that in this law we have actually provided for the first time an overview of the consular activities carried out by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for citizens, so that this makes it easier to guide citizens. This law will clearly state what they are entitled to. These are often such things as those relating to authenticating documents. These are things that relate to matriculation agendas when, for example, someone is born a child abroad, and so on. There's a whole bunch of things we're ready for. It is our job to do these things for citizens of the Czech Republic. And there really was no such inventory anywhere, or it wasn't available. Now it will be in the law, and citizens will know that all these activities in the fields of legal services, verification and the like, we are ready to do for them. So I think it is also quite a turning point that this will clarify and clarify the consular activity, which has also been very acute lately. It is also because, unfortunately, there are a number of reasons today that our citizens are getting into difficult complicated situations abroad. And that, too, is another reason to give it a clear set of rules and a clear list of responsibilities that we are applying to. There is also an adjustment regarding the problem of employing family members, where we are often interested in leaving so that families do not tear themselves apart because someone gets a job abroad. Of course, there are conditions under which we are prepared to employ those family members. Of course it doesn't apply everywhere. We don't send family members with ambassadors to places that are dangerous, like I'm gonna say Baghdad, Kabul and all that. There's even, I'll tell you right now, undesirable. And we wouldn't even accept it if someone wanted to take the family members with them. So it doesn't work as a dogma. Places marked by the FX, for example, are the hardest embassy in terms of safety, and of course, family members can't go there at all. I'm telling you this so that we realize that there are really great specifics of foreign service. That we need to have a law that covers all these variations. No State Service Act dealing with standard situations is capable of covering this. For example, we have now dealt with this state of affairs with this Civil Service Act by, of course, looking for an agreement on a number of matters. Thank God we were able to find her, we agreed in the government, especially with the Ministry of Finance. So now we're overcoming it with some kind of improvised period. Well, let's just say we're doing well, but it's only temporary. We need a law that would give these things clear rules to solve all the problems related to the rotations of our employees, to their family members and, perhaps, to such things as insurance. Because unfortunately, today we did not even have the possibility of additional insurance for those who worked abroad for the various complications that might occur abroad. So now we're opening up an opportunity for our employees to insure themselves in a way that's common in a number of other countries where this is solved. And these are also not just abstract considerations. You may well remember that it even happened to us that the Czech Ambassador was killed in the service. It wasn't so long ago that it happened in Asia. This means that, unfortunately, we also have situations where the most terrible events occur in the course of diplomatic duties, and it was not so long ago that this happened. It's wrong to deal with this ad hoc thing, because there are no rules for that. This means that when something serious happens, not to say completely tragic, we are able to respond accordingly and not to invent some ad hoc solution or solution that is based solely on the Labour Code. So even these things are modified here for the first time in history, and I believe and stand by the fact that this law is very necessary, that it is a turning point and that it comes at a time when we really urgently need it for the reasons that I have said here. The Civil Service Act and the new EU directive that obliges us to have consular responsibilities precisely defined, which is also happening here for the first time. So this is how I set out the debate that we are going to have here, especially in the House Committees and where we are ready to answer all the questions and clarify everything we intended and explain why we wrote it just like that. Thank you for your attention and I look forward to the debates we will have.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u3	Thank you and I ask that the rapporteur now take the floor for the first reading of Mr Robin Böhnisch. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. As rapporteur, I do not like to make it easier for myself to work with the popular formula that the Minister has said everything that matters and there is almost nothing left to say. I will try to find some interesting details or examples. In any case, as we know Minister Zaorálek, who is very complex in his speeches, such procedures are already very problematic. It is indeed a debt older than some 23 to 25 years. It's a bill we owe to diplomats. After all, the debate and decisions of the Chamber of Deputies are rarely viewed from all over the world. This is the case today and it does not diminish the fact that it is mainly the eyes of our diplomats at our representative offices around the world. At present, as the Minister has already said, there is no comprehensive legislation that would systematically address the issue of our foreign service. For now, we are reflected in the competence law and international law, such as the Vienna Convention. Of course, it addresses our foreign service outside the Czech Republic, not the operation of the headquarters itself, i.e. the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, today we are also governed by the Civil Service Act, which was amended for the needs of foreign services last year, because it has been shown that, for example, because of the well-known procedure, the rotation of workers from headquarters abroad and from abroad back to headquarters, the Civil Service Act is not entirely applicable. The draft law incorporated into the press 994 defines basic concepts, principles of foreign service performance, defines in several paragraphs the representative office, defines the performance of foreign service and, for example, diplomatic and consular rank. The proposal also has an implementation dimension in the area of consular protection not only for citizens of the Czech Republic but also for so-called unrepresented citizens, i.e. citizens of European Union countries who do not have their representative office in the territory. Furthermore, the law deals with the material agenda, the civil agenda, the electoral agenda and the inheritance agenda. An important part is Title Five, which deals with service and employment, i.e. the creation of a relationship, the Personnel Council of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, changes in service and use of employment, possibilities of remuneration and so on. What is important is the issue of health and social insurance, compensation for the consequences of foreign service or work abroad. In this sense, Section 3 and the related part of the explanatory memorandum on pages 77 to 79 are worth attention, which I recommend as an interesting reading. Not even a part of the continuous education of diplomatic workers can be forgotten. In addition to those essential things, such as insurance, things less important, such as the issue of donations and other benefits that diplomats can accept. You know that in the Service Act it is a limit of CZK 300, which is hard to accept for foreign service purposes, and it brings our diplomats closer to meeting their mission abroad. The law is special to the Civil Service Act. This law also amends parts, as well as the Pension Insurance Act and the Public Health Insurance Act. I add that the RIA report has also been drawn up. The significant figure from this report is the impact on the state budget in case of increased claims by CZK 27 million 376 thousand per year. Finally, I would like to thank you for the solid inclusion of this point. It's a matter of urgency. For this reason, I am also announcing that in the debate I will propose a shortening of the deadline for committee discussions, I hope that it will be a foreign committee, for 30 days. Thank you for your attention so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u5	Thank you. I open a general debate in which I register three applications. I also note one factual point, but a factual point may be made only after the debate has begun. First of all, Mrs Fischerová, Mr Klán will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u6	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, since I am a member of the Foreign Committee, I have also devoted a little to this Foreign Service Act and to amending some other laws. For starters, I'm just gonna say a little nipple. I was here yesterday when I was very well aware of the afternoon debate on the so-called budgetary responsibility law. I stress that while I am from the opposition, I am behind the ODS, and there I was yesterday on a completely different ship than the coalition. I confess that yesterday afternoon, as the coalition voted, and with the representation of Dawn, and with its support, I was not convinced that it was okay. Now, again, I will delight the Minister, who is from the coalition, that I have a positive view of this law on foreign service, as I have studied it, so that he may be calm. We may find something there, but I want to say that this law, with an impact on other laws, is at such a stage that I personally recommend that it be forwarded to the next reading. As I read the explanatory note, the law is not comprehensive, it has about 30 pages, 64 paragraphs. I will stress some things that interest me or things that I have consulted with diplomats who work for the Czech Republic abroad and then come back to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That's the rotation that was said here. It is really very specific, which is why I think this law is appropriate here today. The Minister of Foreign Affairs said it was an extraordinary thing. I will then ask - it has already been proposed here that we will ask for a shortening of the deadline for discussion - as you see a vision, if it really could come into effect this year. Although it says in the explanatory note that the next day of the following month, or the second day of the following month, is expected to be effective. Indeed, the Czech Republic is one of the last countries not yet to have this Foreign Service Act as a special law. Somewhere they have a so-called statute for it at the Ministry. After the long negotiations and preparation, we have now come to the conclusion that we are at first reading. The organisation of foreign services has so far been based on the Labour Code, but is currently mainly regulated by Act 234/2014 Coll., on Civil Service, as amended. We know how the Civil Service Act was created, and we know that it often complicates life, let's say, mainly in competitions, which are figuratively tons, or a lot, in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Therefore, even in the law, as I have read, there are some exceptions that could simplify and speed up this competition. The amendment defines the principles of the performance of the foreign service, determines which departments are the representative office, and defines their formalities and powers. It also takes into account the distribution of the service, which is abroad or here in the Czech Republic at headquarters. It also defines the main content of both forms of foreign service. Furthermore, the law explicitly defines consular activities, which has already been said here, is also within the framework of the amendment to the EU directive. The security of citizens of the Czech Republic living abroad is also increased. It is also, for example, an activity of a notarial nature or a verification activity which has not yet been regulated by adequate legislation. The law also regulates service and employment relations in foreign service and, above all, ensures - this is a popular word within this law - the smooth rotation of employees. These are the famous movements abroad and backwards, as they say, you know, up at the headquarters here in Prague. It is moving abroad and, on the contrary, through the introduction and transfer of jobs, facilitating the transfer of the agenda during staff rotation. It also facilitates the inclusion of employees of other offices in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the basis of training in a foreign position. This law also provides that the transfer between the representative offices or the creation of a new representative office abroad is not a change in systematicisation, and these operations will therefore be able to be carried out much more flexibly. I know that these selection procedures are often not really easy, and especially workers, as they say, will go away, or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who are abroad and are about to change positions, so often it has to happen even after Skype and it is really very distinctive and completely different from other ministries, other ministries. It has been briefly said that this new legislation will also have an impact on the state budget. We do not have Mr. Babiš's vice-premier, whom I would immediately ask - I have read that he has been consulted - if he is really counting on it, because this impact is calculated in particular in the explanatory memorandum of § 43, § 44 and § 53. The rapporteur has already mentioned it, so I will not repeat it. There is also a calculation of how many such civil servants are abroad. It's 1 053, but it doesn't include family members. I'm just saying the total number of diplomats abroad. The proposed legislation also introduces greater legal certainty for citizens of the Czech Republic, including those who find themselves abroad in a situation where they need consular protection. I'm coming to a conclusion. Let me just mention what we're discussing and what diplomacy is. Wikipedia says it's a means of understanding between states. I say - not only between states, but it is often mainly among people. It's very important all over the world. When I met with students who were studying diplomacy, I had the opportunity to meet very good students. We had them on the Foreign Committee with even those who graduated or graduated from the diplomatic academy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I would very much like them to have the conditions set well and to be able to enter the process of selecting new diplomats, because it is not easy. Here it has been told by the Minister that it will be possible to take other people besides those already in the civil service, and I therefore ask whether these young people will also be open to this journey. Then I think it is up to us to support this government amendment to the Foreign Service Act and thus create adequate conditions and, above all, appropriate professional growth for these people. Thank you all for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u7	Thank you, too, Madame. I'm sorry, I'm registering two factual points. First, Mr Opálka, then Mr Šarapatka, and then you will be given the floor with priority right, Mr President. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm sorry, I'm a bit of abusing the factual point, because I have another meeting, but I would like to say that just as I spoke yesterday, this law shows that the preparation, the course of the approval and approval of the Civil Service Act has not been very successful. You can see that we need to separate a whole lot of this, because the service law is really about something other than the Foreign Service Act, which is coming up with its specifics on the issue that the armed forces are also dealing with. Because these diplomats are being broadcast, they have a certain penzion of tasks, not the working hours they have to perform, and then they come back to us, and in order to get to the same position on salary, they often have to go through a selection procedure where they don't have to be placed either. So there's a lot of uncertainty here. I just wanted to fill in this little part here, except for what my colleague Fischerová said, because the law is more than necessary. And I would appeal once again not to be stupid and subject to the pressure of some reconstruction of the state and other lobby groups, because under pressure the best oil is pushed, but probably not the best laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u9	Thank you. Now, with Mr Šarapatka's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am, unlike my previous speaker, not a member of the Foreign Committee, although I have served as ambassador for 15 years, but I would like to say that I am really grateful to the current administration that this bill was created, with only one exception. The minister here said he was coming at the right time. I don't agree with that. The law was supposed to be here for 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u11	Thank you. I announce that with the replacement card number 54, Mr. Vice Prime Minister Pavel Bělobrádek will vote. And now Mr Schwarzenberg's priority right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u12	Mr President, Minister, it is certainly very commendable that we will finally receive a service law on diplomatic service. He was necessary, moved on for many years, and I am very grateful that he will come to us now. However, it has yet to be thoroughly revised and we must also realise that there are certain gaps. For example, as we know, the Ambassador will be appointed by the President. However, the law states who can who is required to serve with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What happens when the President appoints someone - which he has the right - who does not respond to these assumptions? Then we really have a problem that we would have a designated ambassador who wouldn't be employed by the State Department. Here we really need to think about whether we're gonna do some constitutional adjustment or something. The greatest danger to foreign service is to demote our workers. And here I have some doubts as to whether the general permission that ambassadors can serve until they're 70 is correct. Yes, there are exceptional situations where I support it too. But these are repairs to an exceptional situation where we cannot expect that in a company where, compared to other establishments, any younger person can wait longer for a position in the desired position of the ambassador to motivate our co-workers. I'd like to think about that. And recently, the growing pressure to put people in the ambassador's seat for political reasons. Once again, a tribal employee who works in a field that is an experienced diplomat is then easily frustrated, of course, when someone else is sent at the last moment, with a diplomatic profession much is not. [[unintelligible]] We also need to look carefully at the growing practice of other ministries to send people on a diplomatic mission. It's a little difficult for the ambassadors when there are people who aren't subject to him, actually, to another ministry and all. So I'd say the law's basically a good idea, he's got a lot of good ideas, too, but we still need to rework it into details so that the flies that are here are picked out. But I thank all those who have prepared the law. Finally, the matter has progressed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u13	Thank you. We will continue with the general debate in which I register two applications. Mr Klán will speak first and Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u14	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, rapporteur. It has already been said that this law should have been here a long time ago. Yes, he should have been here for 20 years. Like the service law we approved here after the long extempora in 2014. I'm just going to follow up on a service law that was already written in some way in the Constitution when it came to 1992. Then he began to pay in 1993. But the Foreign Service Act was still missing. He was still missing, he was missing until today, and I'm going to ask the minister why he was missing until today. I want to know which other states don't have the Foreign Service Act. I would very much like the Minister to list them, and I would also like to know at what stage they, these states, have worked out whether we are really the last state, as we have argued about everything lately, that these are other laws where we are the last state, such as ratification of the Paris Agreement, that we are the last state, so I really wonder if we are really our last state, if this is really the Czech Republic again. I'll follow up on the service bill. In the Service Act, she's somehow incorporated in the foreign service, and I was fascinated by it, it's the year we negotiated a 70-year exemption for ambassadors in some way. We were saving two ambassadors, Mrs Filipi and Mrs Klausová, who had completed 70 years. We have made an exception for another exception so that they can complete their mandate in peace and quiet, one in Slovakia, the other in Syria. I have nothing against these two ambassadors. Nothing at all. My point is, there's an exception again for an exception. But now it's about to come to an end. Foreign service is a service of the state. Why, then, should there be a foreign service separately in the law? If I go back to the law that was discussed here a year ago, 70 years ago. There was already talk in Section 67 about the fact that an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could be sent away for one year without his consent. What is it now? Is it still on? Or what's the law? I confess that I did not study the law in detail from the point of view of foreign service, because I am not a member of the Foreign Committee, but of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where we dealt with the service law and its connotations. I will now return to this relationship with the foreign service. Thus, foreign service should have its own law, and thus it would cease to fall under the service law. I have a bit of a problem with that, and I don't agree easily. I'll explain why I disagree. It's about the civil service. And now the argument against the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that this Foreign Service Act is presenting. According to the argument that is here, this means that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not want it to be part of the central authorities in the future. At least that's how I get it a little bit. Or, therefore, will not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs simply apply to a law of competence which defines the individual competences between the central authorities of the state administration, i.e. the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, as set out in the law of jurisdiction? How, Minister, will it continue to work? Or how am I supposed to interpret it? That's another problem. [[15.10 hours]] But the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is implementing state policy in the field of foreign state policy. Or is it Minister Zaorálek and others who pursue their private policy? Although it sometimes does seem that some ministers and ministers are implementing their private policy, foreign policy, and not state public policy. What, then, is it in this case? Then how do you remove the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from this field? I don't know, 'cause that way, if I remove the foreign service from that state service, there's gonna be another chaos. We'll be in such chaos that then we can break the law of service. That's what I was talking about yesterday. Then he'll be completely useless in the finals, because there'll be another ministry that doesn't want to fall into the jurisdictional law over there, then they'll say someone else doesn't want to fall. For example, Minister Chvojka, who is now Minister of the Legislative Council of the Government, is not responsible for the fact that the Service Act was prepared, as it was prepared, his predecessor was responsible, that is true, he was always the rapporteur, the Minister - he will certainly commend me a little bit, I will be very happy - he was the rapporteur, he unfortunately took it all, as they say, when he was reporting it, so it was quite difficult. Each ministry has its own specifics. I can't imagine that all ministers will really come and say, we want our laws for our ministries, we want to adjust everything so that the law of competence just doesn't exist. That's right, dear friends, ladies and gentlemen. So now I'm going back to the 70 years. The Service Act says that the age of 70 is the ultimate age of leaving the state service. When we created an exception of 70 years for the ambassador, so also the ambassador, in order to balance it genderically, it has to be gender-balanced, we'd be somewhere else, so in the Foreign Service Act, how is that? It's still going to be 70 years old, or we're going to put it out of age, so that these different positions become, like, a trade, because that's how the public can perceive it, just that those positions will then be created artificially, and they'll be created as a newsstand. Then they're really negative things. I've written it down here that when we've approved the 70-year exemption here, it's unsystemic, and it smells just like traficism, clientelism, and it strengthens the politicization of the state administration, e.g. The outgoing politician will be rewarded for his faithful service just before the end of the term of office. I can imagine that someone will be 69 years old, sent as ambassador somewhere, and therefore there will be a 70-year exception, so we'll let him continue to serve there. It could be one of the options, I'm not denying it. Then I would like to hear the Minister's arguments as to why we introduced the exception. I understand, of course, that exception was for the two ambassadors so that they could serve the mandate. As far as the explanatory note is concerned, I also read it. We've been talking about tenders here, too. I want to ask you what's going on with the MGMIO Institute of Moscow. Will there still be the possibility in that law that the graduates of this Moscow Institute will perform the posts of ambassadors and various employees at the embassy? Whether it's still like that or we cross it off. As is the case with other schools, which are defined essentially in the Service Act, that a person must not have them, whether it is political college or in some way different schools that existed in the former Soviet Union. This is also necessary to know at this connotation and at this stage the Foreign Service Act. I will, of course, put an end to my debate at this stage, but count on me to apply, for example, with factual remarks to the Minister, so that I can respond flexibly. Maybe I won't deprive you of any of my other observations, which, of course, will come to my mind here during this first reading, and we'll see where this discussion will go. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u15	Thank you, too. I will read the apologies - from 15 to 19 a.m. today due to illness, Mrs Jana Lorencová apologizes, today from 15 to the end of the day, from urgent duty at the Ministry of the Interior, Mr Milan Chovanec apologizes and from 15 to 19 a.m. for family reasons, Mr Jiří Holeček apologizes. Mr Grospič will be next in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to follow up on my previous speakers and say, first and foremost, that I will not stand in the way of the adoption of the Service Act, so on foreign service. I welcome the fact that he was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies after so long, and I will also express my conviction that he might have, from a practical point of view, preceded the law of service as such, because when I took the whole annabasis, we first adjusted our service relations to the employees of local authorities, then the service law was constantly postponed as such and the period of its effectiveness shifted until it finally became a condition of the appointment of this government by the President. The law was born in a very difficult, difficult way, and I dare say that there was a number of concessions and compromises by the government coalition due to the right part of the spectrum of the Chamber of Deputies, so that it would eventually gain the passability of this law and conditionally its approval. It turns out in practice that from the moment he saw the service law of the light of the world and came into effect, one need after another is constantly multiplying it in some way, the partial one, the larger one, to amend it. When we had the last constitutional committee, it was heard quite openly, I believe, by Deputy Minister Mlsna, a matter which I fully understand and agree with her that it is not possible to present a conceptual amendment in such a short period of time. However, I would turn it in the second row and say: it is probably not right to react quickly even in such a short time to those practical problems by submitting one change after another and in a partial way to sprain the wedge. I am a little concerned that the law before us today, the Foreign Service Act, which really addresses the nature of the problems of a part of civil servants serving abroad, serves at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so these people will basically face practically the same problem as those who operate under the Civil Service Act, that there may be a number of partial problems that will confront the applicable legislation. Currently, the legislation that governs the regime of foreign service workers is almost 29 and can happen, and I expect that very soon we will have an amendment here, which will in some way respond to the problem associated with this or that diplomatic mission, with one or that diplomatic representation abroad, and we will deal with it exactly as with the service law. So I would like to know the answer here, whether it is possible, from the Minister of Foreign Affairs or any other member of the government or the creators of this law, who participated in it from the coalition of the government, whether this law was actually prepared in such a way as to eliminate these things. Since it is not ideal to make changes in the service law, which concern, in particular, internal administration and central government bodies, but it is still the internal competence of the State and can be dealt with in some way. However, this is a business card of the Czech Republic on the outside, which will operate abroad, and if we get into a situation similar to that of the Service Act, it would certainly not benefit the prestige of the Czech Republic and the diplomacy of the Czech Republic very much. So, from this point of view, I would just like to point out these problems that may be related to this law in the future, and perhaps not and I'm painting the devil on the wall here, but I'm really worried as I've been studying it, and on short notice, which is quite extensive, that at least there will be a conflict with the service law and that there will be a conflict with the labour code. [[15.20 hours]] To tell you the truth, I am not very happy that there is a climate in the Czech Republic, when there are about four million employees, about 4 million 100 thousand in employment, three already presently or in the future, different standards. If aside from the service relations concerning the armed forces, whether the police or the Army of the Czech Republic, we have a labour code here, we will have a service law and we will have a foreign service law here, and neither of these regulations, however, does not exclude each other under certain circumstances from applying the second or third law to the application then in practice. And this is not a happy moment when the employee will be primarily faced with the situation that his service relationship or employment relationship, if you wish, is governed by a certain standard, but must assess the impact of another standard factually and take into account, where appropriate, the effects of the Labour Code. So here I want to make sure that this foreign service, in particular, isn't the case. I am a little sorry that we are here indeed, mentioned by my previous speaker, responded by changing the law of service to the needs of diplomacy in two cases, for two diplomats, for Mrs Filipa and Mrs Klausová, that there are also some other diplomats who might fall under this law, but that is not going to happen because there has been an amendment, perhaps a successful amendment to the service law, which will treat these things in some way for the future. However, I would like to point out once again that the proposal, as it is prepared here, misses a little bit of this problem, which has been incorporated into the Service Act. So I guess so many of my remarks on this law so far. I will not defend his release until further reading. I don't think we should make him very quick, that we should give him the classic time that is given to all the laws, to be able to deal with him responsibly enough and to consider any potential risks that might occur. could government, virtually. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then to prepare and to discuss further. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u17	Thank you, too. Mr. Jiří Štětina is registered with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u18	Hello. Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we have this law on our table, which is very clear, and I think that the explanation of the Minister, the rapporteur, but also of all those discussing it makes me feel quite good that this law can be worked out very well and that we can have an extremely necessary law in a relatively short period of time. I speak here in such a small conflict of interest, because my person close to me is a little contained in this law. And believe me, it's not easy being in diplomatic services. I think that in recent years very good people have managed to go into diplomatic services and that we are not in the past time, and now I do not want to touch my colleagues when we have sent people to diplomatic services who have either been uncomfortable or unable. It's not today. I would just like to have all these discussion posts and those very positive topics incorporated into this law because they actually bring great improvements to this law, but otherwise I would be very satisfied myself, and I think that if we look at what the relationship of the Foreign Service Act to the Labour Code is to the law of competence, especially to the Service Act, it will be very much extended to us. I only have two very short comments. I don't like the fact that we've limited work in diplomatic services for 70 years. It's not because I want to report to the diplomatic services, but I think we have people who are capable of us at the age of 80, and, on the contrary, at 40, I think we should almost no longer count on them. Thank you for hearing the short comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u19	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mr Klán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me respond a little by your help to my previous speaker, Jirka Štětina, whom I greatly appreciate. I will answer why the age of 70 should remain in this law. Well, because it's a civil service. And the service law says that the ultimate age for leaving the state service is 70 years old. That should also be translated into the foreign service. I understand any exception that, for example, someone who is 75, 80 years old is quite well and will still be able to perform that foreign service. I don't have that much problem with it. But if we make something, some laws that are the general norm, they should still apply the same to everyone. Not that there's gonna be any other political collateral and he's gonna say, well, we don't like the age of 70, so we're gonna cancel it. Or we could put 80 years of age in there. This seems rather unsystemic to me. I've been bumping into this in the Service Act that I wouldn't be surprised when there's a new political guarantee coming out of the elections to the Chamber of Deputies this year that they're just gonna break the law. She's gonna cancel it because she's bothering her. It's botherful, either age-wise, or that he can't exchange civil servants on individual ministries according to his political assignment, so I wouldn't blame it. The exception of 70 years, we really discussed it here a year ago, the exception was made for two ambassadors, for no one else. I'm against this age disappearing because it's a civil service and a civil service is subject to a 70-year age limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u21	Thank you, too. So now duly entered into the general debate by Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u22	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to make some basic remarks on the draft law in press 994. First of all, it rarely happens to me, but I have to say that this time I agreed to a short performance by Karel Schwarzenbergr. The bill is necessary and we knew it from the very beginning. The fact that it is handled well, I agree only partially with that, because the definition of individual terms is okay. I mean, the definition of individual terms is really quite essential, but I don't think it will remain unchanged after committee discussions, at least under certain circumstances. It is also interesting how it is referred to certain consular matters. Among other things, we're going to continue the funeral bill, and in that consular service, it's the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that... The consular mission is, of course, the administrative body that deals with it or the body that has to deal with it. What, in my opinion, is important in this assessment, and I am speaking now that we are at first reading, and I do not want to delay at second reading and, if necessary, in a detailed debate where amendments will be tabled. I consider it very necessary to lay down general rules which are different from the public service precisely because it is a specific service. What I miss there is the division of the state service for those states with which we are bound by a wider agreement, a wider agreement or an international commitment. Thus, in particular, what is the difference between a diplomat's service or a representative's office, whether in any capacity, in the states of the European Union and in other states. I think it's important. [[15.30 hours]] I'm going to say one particular example that I didn't find there and that we had to solve here and that is not solved here, which is solved by classical health insurance. Citizen of the Czech Republic - or citizen of the Czech Republic, who is properly insured and gives birth in the Czech Republic, her children are automatically insured. That, of course, is being negotiated. It is a question of how much health insurance is valid both in the Czech Republic and in the countries of the European Union, because the principle of the single market, i.e. uniform rules in health insurance, is very important. But when a diplomat's wife is born here, and we've witnessed it, I could tell a very rough example of 2012 or 2011, respectively. the turn of 20111/2012, because the twins were born in December 2011, so the commercial insurance companies refused to insure the children because they were in the incubator. And that, in my opinion, is quite a crucial thing, because after the diplomatic mission, the Czech Republic required at first 800 thousand and then, when we had it recounted, because the particular ambassador of another state in the Czech Republic turned to me, I turned to the then foreign minister Karel Schwarzenberg, I think he was almost a diplomatic scandal, the demand of the medical facility was CZK 240,000. So take somebody. Sorry about 600 grand. The koruna seems like a pretty big deal to me. Now imagine that we will have to deal with a similar matter. And, in my opinion, it is necessary to distinguish the health insurance we provide to Czech citizens in the Czech Republic, we have some agreements within the European Union on this matter, as the rules on health insurance apply, when a citizen of the Czech Republic starts working on the European labour market in the framework of free movement of citizens and labour, the rules must apply. This does not apply in third countries, i.e. non-EU countries. But in this respect, I think that this is a matter that will have to be examined more deeply in committee during the hearing, and not only in committee abroad, according to my judgment. And that is a matter that concerns one particular matter. I don't want to delay on purpose, but given that the law is presented here - and I note it is handled with great care, there are a number of things that we have been waiting for, which are quite politely handled in terms of the definition of certain things. And then there's stuff that's basically missing or has to be done. And I think it is important that we realise what community we are in, whether we respect the principles of international legal obligations that we have accepted or want to accept, and how we will ensure this for the citizens of the Czech Republic. Whether this thing has or doesn't have certain rules. And for at least this reason, in order to avoid a certain one, and I think that all the colleagues who have spoken have avoided the problem that we had here with the Service Act and its amendment, so I would recommend to the Minister the matter that the Minister of Chovanec had to implement at the time of the crisis in the summer of 2014 that we had a working group composed of representatives of all the political parties, and that we consulted these things, as it had been developed in the committees, on the basis of the work meetings that were at the Ministry of the Interior. And it helped the final, although not in my opinion, a sufficient solution. Because that's where, for example. We already argued at the time the need to resolve the exceptions, which concerned e.g. The age of 70 years, but also other matters, as my colleague Klán said here. That basically there must be an age limit and then there must be conditions under which strict rules can be e.g. for reasons of, say, a six-month period or other reason, e.g. We see with Ambassador Filipi why we have the change that we have here in the Service Act, why we should allow it and how it affects the permit. As for one other matter which interests me and which, in my opinion, deserves an explanation also from the point of view of functioning, and these are the issues of special missions and liaison offices or offices. In this regard, of course, there is also the question of how our honorary consuls operate abroad, and what is the relationship between the Czech Republic and the Honorary Consulate, i.e. actually to someone with a Czech diplomatic passport, but he does all those things for himself. It is somehow tied to the Czech Republic. The same applies to honorary consuls of other states for Czech citizens, because I think the principle of reciprocity for individual states must be described in a much more detailed way. That's what I think needs to be found, I'd say, a consensus on this matter. It's because we've abandoned a number of diplomatic missions. That Czechoslovakia had traditional relations in the past to certain territories, but in the case of individual turbulence, whether it was the first Republic, the Protectorate, after 1945, after 1948, after 1968 or 1989 or after 1992, when we lost some, I would say, the advantages we had from previous negotiations, and we left some diplomatic solutions or those tasks that we had in the context of diplomacy international, so of course we left certain cities, from certain territories altogether. And then those specific diplomats were in charge of the entire region, not one or two states, which in their own way were the right partner for us. I remember a debate that, in my opinion, was very pronounced, right after 2000, which concerned our main relations, not just the Union, before joining the Union, how much we will be able to conclude, how much we will have separate bilateral relations, e.g. just in Egypt, but also with other states, e.g. the Republic of South Africa or those States of Africa. And the situation turned out a little different than the real result after 2011, after so-called. the Arab Spring, when our decision at the beginning of the 21st century actually proved to be good, but unfortunately not long-lasting, because not all North African countries have addressed so-called. The Arab Spring in a way that led when I say this very diplomatically, when we talk about foreign service, in a way that was consistent with a stable political regime of the state, and we had to focus our attention on other states in this region in order to maintain contacts that will enable us both political and, in particular, economic cooperation in this region. Of course, it is not possible to estimate the extent to which such a matter is possible, how stable the regimes we are dealing with are, because, of course, with respect for Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 The international pact on civil and political rights is the right of every nation to create its own political regime and use its own natural resources. We don't have any say in this. But, on the other hand, of course, our economic interests in our focus, when our economy is 70 percent export, are very important to maintain such relationships. I think that's something to discuss. I didn't put her in a dramatic position. I'm not the kind of person who would think we should reject the proposal. On the contrary, I welcome him. Maybe I'm not so critical that we've been missing 20 years here. But the truth is, when we adopted the Civil Service Act in 2002, there was already a debate as to whether the diplomatic service or foreign service law was to be separated. In the end, it was united and 2014 taught us that the department was right. [[15.40 hours]] So, in a way, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for taking up this task and that this first reading is a way of reading about a standard that has a structure that we can look at from different angles, but it is a thing that is a good basis for any discussion in the committees, and any adjustments will be not, as Karel Schwarzenberg said, essential, but rather cosmetic, but will be directed to areas that are not yet described in the law, or would have to, and in that case I expect the Minister to address it by his own decree of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which would affect the real life of diplomats, which he would have carried out, I would say... the focus of the law, the implementing regulation we would like to see at least at second reading in a detailed debate, so that we know where it is going, what is possible and what cannot be done. Then one more thing that, in my opinion, is important is a time limit for discussion. At this point, I do not intend to say that we do not extend, I would like it to be settled by the end of the parliamentary term, so that the Minister is successful in this matter, not because he will do so... The Minister doesn't deserve that, since he's already yelling at me, I'm gonna answer him directly. Not to have a memorial here in the form of a Foreign Service Act, but rather to be able to hand in a certain job after that, that there is a standard that makes sense and is important. And it also has a sufficient dimension for the future and covers these things. I understand that if there's never actually been an experiment like this before, that the standard is incomparable with something else. It is perhaps comparable to foreign regulations that we can find in some of our similar legal environments, whether continental law or Anglo-Saxon law, because these are perhaps comparable systems with which we work. In this respect, I believe that when discussing the commandment of this proposal to the Foreign Committee, and I do not question here that it should be a guarantee committee, I believe that at least the provisions that will concern other matters should be discussed in the Committee on Budgetary, because of course it has the demands of the state budget, they are quantified there and they need to be assessed, and then, in particular, the social security, which is primarily due to the Czech legal system, and I do not see exactly such a link when it would require it, but a Committee on Health, which could better assess the comparability of systems in our foreign policy commitments, which we have, which are designed as a real community. And now I am not going to run into the debate that took place here this morning, that is, to debate what the current form of the European Union's fundamental documents is and what stability it has. But it is about being able to guarantee rules for employees of the Czech state in the territory of a foreign state, which are as good as the rules if he were at home, i.e. an employee of the Czech state in the Czech Republic. I think that's very important. So much for opening the show. I believe that the Minister, if he responds in the final word, will have an opinion on this, because when they have prepared it, it certainly was not an easy matter, and at the same time those who will be able to justify the law in committee will be able to answer questions that will certainly arise there, which are not worth solving today in plenary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u23	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I have noted your suggestions that this material should be directed to the Budget and Health Committee. I note one factual remark by Mr Grospič and then the Minister's priority right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, Minister, dear colleagues, I won't keep you long. My previous speech led me to one further reflection and such a request, because after experience with other laws, such as the Service Act, but even now with the amendment to the Labour Code, which is currently being discussed in committees, I know that there are always comprehensive amendments, which are more or less prepared for central administration bodies, and one of the Members will adopt them and submit them. If it would not be possible to pay much attention to as much as possible unifying terminology which passes through both the Labour Code and the Service Law and the Law on the Service of the employees of local authorities, then also now this proposed law. It is a practical thing that can only make it easier in the future if there are legal disputes between employees and employers on practical issues, and I would very much advocate that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u25	Thank you. Mr Marek Benda and Mr Klán are now duly signed up. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u26	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have a feeling that Members of the Communist Party are trying to delay this. I think it's because of some other points than this particular one. I'll try to be short, but still a few little doubts. I don't really like the laws that individual groups write for themselves. And this, unfortunately, is a typical law where employees who for many years have been a very closed group, have written for themselves a law that allows them to have some other advantages and invent other ways to make it difficult to access this closed group, which divides everything between themselves. Unlike all previous speakers, I am not convinced that we need a law on foreign service. I think that a few possible exceptions to the Civil Service Act would suffice, and I do not find it entirely fair to refer to it as a law implementing European Union regulations, which I do not say is not a little something there, but it could be contained somewhere else, and here it is just to make it look like it is a European standard. That's the first doubt I've ever expressed, the character of the common. Second thing. I think that the law, already because it was the guarantor of the Civil Service Act, should be ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee to compare how the civil service is regulated, what exceptions we really need for foreign service and what additional and, say, character only employees registered there to benefit them. [[15.50 hours]] I also think there are some things that seem to me legally at least slightly dubious. Paragraph 19, excuse me if I am wrong, but the activities of a notary nature: At the request of a citizen, the representative office shall certify that he is alive if he proves his identity as a valid official document. So I do not realize that anyone in the Czech Republic is testifying that someone is alive, and I am not aware of what it would do him abroad if he had a valid official document. I can imagine a situation where it might be useful to someone if they don't have the official document, but not when they have it. So proving that someone's alive seems to me to be dubious. I don't know who wrote it. Someone may explain to me that this is necessary somewhere, but I would still like to hear this explanation in the Committee's deliberations. The second thing that has struck me lightly is the correlation between paragraphs 32 and 33, which I may be reading wrong, and then, of course, I apologize to the authors, but it seems to me that in mutual custody, it occurs that, in fact, there is no need to put up a tender for a vacancy in the Ministry, that it will be the same as using 32 and 33 next to each other, and I will be able to accept whomever I want. This is something I would very much like to defend, because we have already experienced the civil service, we have experienced the civil service under this government, which has looked at how it will stabilise the civil service. It meant that in advance they had taken dozens, somewhere up to hundreds of employees, some in high positions, and now the same government is inventing complex structures, as some loyal officials who failed to suit it, for example at the Ministry of Health, recalling the entire sections and disturbing the Deputys. So I would just like to be very clear that the rules for entering the state service will also apply to this foreign service, with the exception of the ambassadors appointed by the President. There has to be an exception, but it remains the same for the ordinary clerk's posts. And the last doubt I raise again, and perhaps I will be convinced that this is not the case, is to § 55 Compensation for the consequences of serving or working abroad, where there is some compensation for the consequences of a natural disaster, a crime to a person sent abroad, other than insurance and other things he has, is also granted to family members. It's not clear to me again. It's probably the right thing to take a family member abroad. I don't really know if he's supposed to be under this super-higher protection, that in the event of a crime, he's still getting some compensation from the state if he's had disability. That's what I'm willing to understand with the sent one, as it is assumed that he's been there all along in the service of the state. For family members, I am not really sure if they are in the service of the state the whole time they are abroad. So little doubt that I should refrain from delaying it, and I would ask that this bill should still be ordered to the Constitutional Legal Committee, so that differences from the civil service are assessed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u27	Thank you, too. I'll read two apologies. Today, from 15.50 to 16.20, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes for working reasons, and Mr Milan Urban apologizes until the end of the day. Mr Vojtěch Filip, Vice-President, has now made a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u28	Thank you, Mr President. I'm begging your attention if anyone's stalling. Because I went to the State Service Act with the Home Secretary. And the others were at home. They met here on Friday when we found out that nothing had been agreed yet, and so it went all summer in 2014. I've always been there all day with the Minister. So that's one thing. And if I speak to the law, don't be angry, I may have the right to do so! And since my colleague Benda is already expressing himself, I'm not surprised that there is notary activity. Apostil for every lawyer, for every notary in the Czech Republic, and thus apostil the office abroad, is a major issue of the authenticity of the document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u29	Thank you. Mr Klán, now duly applied for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u30	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. As promised, I'm performing one more time with some of my notes. First of all, I agree with Vice-President Filip that the hard summer of 2014 was really hard, because I went to the service law with him, and when the long negotiations and nonnegotiation took place and, rather, sometimes, extortion from the right-wing opposition, what a service law is supposed to look like, when it was said at one meeting - I think it was even on Friday morning at that time: either it will not be the Directorate-General of State Service and the House meeting will be blocked at third reading or the whole thing will be blocked. This has really been going on for several weeks, that there has simply been no compromise between whether the Directorate-General of State Services is going to be the model of Great Britain or Poland or other states that have it modified, and actually a super official was created at the Ministry of the Interior. So there's a certain kind of politicization. And then it must have been hard to explain to the EU why we chose this model and it is done this way. So the service law has really been discussed quickly, poorly, and it has become a pasculi. And it's obvious that it mixes into the entire state service, which is clear from the title, but it makes problems at different ministries, and it is the foreign service that is one of the ministries where this problem arises. And I was fascinated by my colleague Benda here through Mr President - he will say the exception. I said here: "And you see it! It's an exception law. The exemption confirms the exception and there will be another exception. And when my fellow Members say so, let us make an exception, okay, but the more exceptions and the more exclusion from the law, the less transparency in the state administration and the greater the risk of potential disorder, including corruption in the state administration. If we make ten exceptions, it'll go round and round and we'll get nowhere. That way, these various vices and various problems will be booming. Anyway, I'm gonna ask the Minister here, when the 70-year-old exception was being discussed, it was about a year ago, it was about a year ago when we made that exception for two ambassadors. At the time I read the explanatory report presented here by the Minister of Education Valachová, by the way, at the time, which prepared the original service law, at the time with Minister Dienstbier, when I went to those meetings as a guarantor of the KSČM Members' Club to the Service Act, so I was quite surprised that in the explanatory report - I do not know if the Minister, he was somehow ill at the time, if I am not mistaken, he was probably in the hospital, I am glad that he is already fully fit and healthy today, so that he could respond to it, that at that time it was written that there could not be expected any impact on other public budgets or the business environment of the Czech Republic. It was in the explanatory memorandum a year ago. And elsewhere in the explanatory report, where we have made this exception for 70 years, it says: Another group of persons who can be accepted into fixed-term employment within the state service are citizens of the Czech Republic who stay abroad for reasons unrelated to foreign service, most often because of the marriage with a foreigner. The advantage of employing these persons is a detailed knowledge of local conditions, including the local language, with the necessary degree of loyalty with the state remaining due to the preservation of Czech citizenship. The interest of the Czech Republic is therefore given here. In parentheses - in this way, about seven employees are recruited each year to serve as administrative technical staff, especially in countries with a higher difficulty in life, such as Senegal, Jordan, Peru, Malaysia, etc. Also in this case - and now comes the contradiction, the logical contradiction, ladies and gentlemen, with the sentence that I said at the beginning, and here it says: Also in this case there is a savings of funds, as these persons are not reserved accommodation, travel costs and tuition etc. So you see a logical contradiction with the beginning when there is a claim that no impact can be expected on other public budgets, and at the end it is said that funds are being saved. That was written a year ago. I'm asking the Minister if they've got it right today, if they've figured it out, if they've made a deal. And now that it's written like that, and when I see countries here that don't like to go to the Ambassador Service - Senegal, Jordan, Peru - how they intend to motivate people, in their very nature, to go into these positions for these ambassadorary posts. If it somehow motivates them to go there, that some are more lucrative, some less lucrative. So I'm wondering if there's any benefit there. I can't imagine. So I'd like to hear one more thing from the Minister. [[16.00 hours]] Again, I am not just saying that at the outset, but this is my critical comment on this draft law on foreign service. Because it is clear that he is intersecting with the civil service and with the service law. And the edges and the controversy will still be there. But like I'm saying, if the law should be made and it shouldn't fall under civil service, it has to be adjusted. However, when I consulted back then at Charles University, it was clearly stated that the performance of foreign service should be regulated by an implementing regulation, but not by an exclusion from the Civil Service Act and the introduction of a foreign service, or the Foreign Service Act. So in that case, it might be easier to make the performance of the service for abroad, i.e. foreign services, an implementing regulation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u31	I thank Mr Klán. Another duly signed up is Mrs Hana Aulická. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me, too, to contribute a little to this discussion. I must say that we, as a club, have acknowledged the presentation of this comprehensive law, but, as my colleague and others have already been told, so it is closely intersecting with the service law and we do not really think that the problem is negligible, or even the debate should be extensive. Dear colleagues, the government is coming up with a comprehensive draft law on foreign service. It regulates the principles and manner of performance of foreign service, status, establishment, abolition of representative offices of the Czech Republic abroad and their activities, performance of consular service, service and employment relations in connection with the performance of foreign service. The admission and lending of diplomatic and consular rank, too, but I repeat this once again. Everything has already been mentioned by my previous speakers. This law also introduces the relevant European Union law and regulates the conditions for granting consular protection to unrepresented citizens of other Member States of the European Union. The law comprehensively addresses the issue of the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs within the framework of representative offices and consular activities in the intensity of equipment and legal regulations in the usual countries of the European Union. But the main gros of this law is that it completes and regulates the sections that have so far been dealt with in many laws, only one law on foreign service. We must also agree with other speakers here that we welcome this direction and effort, because this legislative regulation is necessary. As has already been said, it is a pity that he is coming now. However, given the scope of these amendments and amendments, the bill also requires, in my opinion, consultation with the petitioners and especially in the field of employment relations. This amendment is clearly intersecting with the issue of service law and practice in the functioning of representative offices. However, as I have already said, a colleague, Klán, Grospič, and a colleague, or Vice-President Vojtěch Filip, spoke in detail here. I must say that it is also interesting to listen to the officials themselves, the deputy ministers, the directors at the ministries themselves, what brings everything to the service law in practice. There's really nothing to envy sometimes. However, I will return to the field of employment relationship. As a member of the Committee on Social Policy, I must reiterate that the KSČM has no fundamental reservations about this amendment, but there are such important areas that I think should be discussed in the Committee on Social Policy. And as my colleague has already said, and I really agree with him on the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u33	Thank you, Mrs Aulická. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If not, before the debate is closed, the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u34	Thank you. So I thank all the speakers for getting acquainted with the law and for asking some questions here in the opening debate and also expressing some concerns. Although there were a lot of them, I think I can answer those questions and maybe I can lead to a little more clarity and maybe distract some of the concerns. Firstly, there was a question which countries, especially from the EU, do not have a law on foreign service. To clarify, Malta does not have the Foreign Service Act, Hungary does not. As far as I know, Ireland doesn't have it and maybe Sweden doesn't. Otherwise, I think everyone else has it. In those neighboring countries, they have a law on foreign service. I also say this in order to make it clear that the claim that the Civil Service Act, that it is its lack, that it could not cover it, I do not quite share it, because I think that in the vast majority of countries it cannot be covered and must have a special foreign service law. So that is why I think that the ambition that the Civil Service Act should solve all the problems of foreign service is too much and cannot be fulfilled in the vast majority of the countries around us. So I think that might be a pretty strong argument. First of all, I do not think that - as has been said here - a special group makes a special law for itself. I also believe that this is illustrated by the fact that there are so many countries that simply do so. It is not that you are a group here in the Czech Republic - because everyone knows that this is a special type of activity that cannot be covered by ordinary laws that apply in other areas of public service, so most must do it this way. It says here there's some sort of jurisdictional mess. Friends, there's no jurisdictional chaos here! This law is lex specialis against the Civil Service Act. He's in the position of lex specialis against the Labour Code. And I don't think there's any jurisdictional mess here. We just respect the law of competence. The idea that we're creating here - after all, the other resorts also have laws. I don't know, the Veterinary Service Act or the Forest Act or something. That means this isn't something that's never been here before. It's just a common practice for the Resort Ministry to adjust their areas. So I don't think it's such a great thing that we have a law on specific areas of activity here at once. There's been a lot of talk here about the 70 years. So to be clear, there has been no mention of any 70 years of foreign service in this law. To make it clear to everyone. It is not in this law, it is a question of regulation, which is in the Civil Service Act. And we're, if you look at Section 41, we've just created space to confront something like that and we need to keep someone busy longer so that we can just do it by not being in the service, but working. So we're actually what was the exception back then, which here is... So there's no duplication. This Foreign Service Act simply creates the conditions for us to simply be able to do so if we face a similar situation and need to employ someone who is over 70 years of age. Because, like we did in that case, even extraordinarily before we had the Foreign Service Act here in the House - and I repeat, there's no duplication here, because now it's a much more natural solution, and in exceptional situations, we're going to be able to work out a working relationship today. I think that simplifies the Foreign Service Act. The issue of increasing the budget was also significant. I feel like an important thing to say here, too. Because this health insurance is making a claim - about $27.3 million. But here I can say that we have a deal with the Treasury Secretary, here's an agreement with the 27,3 million that should be given to us. And because it is a matter of some basic protection, if the possibility of extra insurance is, all that goes beyond this amount of extra insurance, we are able to pay from our own budget. So there are no further claims on the state budget. As for the issue of supplementary insurance being discussed here, it might be worth saying here that Czech health insurance will not cover everything even in the countries of the European Union. And the second thing, our insurance covers everyone in the world. [[16.10 hours]] There was also mention of honorary consuls in the debate. Here I would like to say about what has been mentioned here, let the person take a look at Section 7 (1). 6 and 7. Honorary consuls do not have Czech diplomatic passports. I would also like to respond to what has been said here from Mr Benda's mouth. I really don't think he's right here. The certificate of life mentioned here by Mr Benda is a very often issued document. It's not a rarity. This is very often given in relation to pensions paid abroad. So it's provided quite often. This certificate of life looks fantastic, but I assure you, it is a very necessary thing. Unfortunately, I must also assure Mr Benda when he spoke of those paragraphs 32, 33, this really was not the correct reading he presented here. The rules on admission to service under the Civil Service Act continue to apply. And that's how I could go about a whole bunch of other things that I think we're able to explain to the committees where we're going to discuss it. So it seems to me - and this debate has shown that there will be a number of things that we will need to clarify. There was still a question about someone being sent abroad without consent, the posting without consent. All I'm saying here is that it's clearly altered. Sending without consent is possible for only six months. A civil servant performing a service at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Defence - this does not concern only us - may be sent to perform such a service without his consent, unless the period of secondment exceeds six months and is necessary for the performance of a foreign service, not more than once every five years. Then it may be a posting without the consent of a civil servant. So that's also a valid rule for the Ministry of Defense, not just the State Department. I was also asked about the effectiveness of the law. I refer to Section 64. It says here that in view of the necessity and necessity of the proposed amendment, we propose the effectiveness of the first day of the calendar month following the date of the law. So we're proposing the first day of the month after the law. And since we really need to do this in time, and I care that we can do this, I propose that you shorten the time limit for this law from that legal period of 60 days to 30 days. That is, then, what I am officially bringing up here in the debate, in order to reduce the hearing deadline to 30 days, so that we have a chance to discuss this in a timely manner and implement it. I'm still looking at the notes I took because there was a lot going on. I'd like to make sure that when there was a question at the Diplomatic Academy that if anyone made it to the Diplomatic Academy, they became part of the system, and then there shouldn't be a problem with his next assignment. So it is not that when students are accepted to the Diplomatic Academy, they must then continue to apply for diplomatic practice. By admission to the Diplomatic Academy, they become a part and count on them and should not be worried about their future. They're going to apply to the State Department somewhere after that. I could guarantee that here. I'm still trying to remember what was in there. President Schwarzenberg had quite a point of view. But I have to say here that they are not part of this or a problem with this law. What the President proposed would be a matter of debate on the Constitution. This would mean changes at the Constitutional level, and that is, of course, something that cannot be affected by this law. Actually, I think that's a different debate. That is actually also what Mr Klán said here when he was talking about the implementing rules. I would like to point out that it is not possible - if I want to deviate from the service law, I can do so only by law. That's the basic constitutional rule. We can't talk about implementing regulations here. I think that the other things that were going on here, I'm prepared to clarify in detail on the committee, because I think it's going to require an even more thorough and possibly more extensive debate. But as an introduction to the committee's debate, I thank you for all the questions I have received here, and I am ready to continue the debate, perhaps next week, in the committees, so that we can do so within the shortened deadline that I hope you will accept. So I hope I've hit the basics, and we'll continue the rest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u35	Thank you, Minister. I'm registering his motion to shorten the deadline to 30 days. With priority rights, the rapporteur, after whom Mr Klán. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u36	Thank you for the floor. The Minister has answered a lot of things. After all, it's his job. I made a few notes. Somewhere I may repeat them after the Minister. I would say that President Schwarzenberg's statement among the lines shows some effort to remove the President of the Republic from an important role. However, it would probably actually assume a change in the Constitution, and I would not like to see that this law, which we need, be brought to ruin at this kind of debate. There has often been criticism perhaps more than this Act of the General Civil Service Act. I have to say, a few years ago, when we were discussing the law from this counter, none of the translators said it would be easy, without any mistakes, and everything would run like a wire. It was expected that such a complex material would come across some of its limits over time and reveal the errors that we would have to correct in the years to come. This law is indeed a law special to it. It's hard to find any major jurisdictional feud. Of course, a speech - I don't say it anyway, and my words come up - can be made, and in a few years you can always refer to a speech captured in the tapestry. But I dare say, and I hope, that between the length of the debate that has now taken place in the debate and the errors that are potentially in this proposal, there is no direct consideration and that, in principle, the wording in which the law is presented is also reasonable to approve. I will also repeat the Minister's proposal. It's also my proposal to shorten the deadline. And then, even after the debate is closed, I will sum up into which committees this law is proposed for discussion, and I would like to recommend only two of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u37	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Klán is the last member so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. My colleagues, my colleagues, I think I am speaking for the last time in this debate, because there has been an answer to my questions, for which I would like to thank the Minister, because he has not taken advantage of the opportunity to end the debate and say the final word. Well, I'm glad I learned all the things I thought I needed to know. I will just say here in the debate that we will not support the reduction of the deadline to 30 days, because this is a really important law that has something to do with the Labour Code and with the Service Law. Therefore, we will not support a reduction to 30 days. At the same time, of course, we will support the commandment of the Committee on Constitutional Law, because that is where the Civil Service Act was being discussed. So this can be discussed at this stage and, of course, we will also support the Committee on Budgets, because it will certainly have implications for the budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u39	Thank you. Minister with priority rights. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u40	Just as I was trying to keep all those questions in my head, I just remembered that I forgot to answer one, at least from the ones I kept in my head, and that was the question of the military enlistment. So I would like to say to whoever asked me that, that military assignments do not fall under this Foreign Service Act. Because somewhere in the explanatory office, it says that members of the security forces and so on have their own regulations of service. So military assignments are a special chapter, and that's not what we're dealing with in this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u41	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. There's no interest in final words. Thank you. I do not see the proposal to refer back or reject the proposal, so we will deal with the proposal on the commandments of the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Foreign Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another committee? It's not like that. I'm going to sign you all off, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your voting cards. We will vote on the commandment to the foreign committee as a committee of guarantee. Initiating vote on the commandment to the Foreign Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 185 vote, 133 Members and Members signed up, for 131, against none. The motion was accepted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I have noted that during the discussion, a motion for a commandment was made to the Committee on Budgets and the Health Committee, as suggested by Mr Filip, and to the Constitutional Legal Committee, as suggested by colleague Benda. Does anyone else have any other suggestions? Colleague of Klán, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u42	My kolegyně, Aulická, mentioned the Social Policy Committee here, so the Social Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-010-063.u43	Yes. I thank Mr Klán. We shall vote, first of all, on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. I am opening the vote on the commandment to the Committee on Budgets. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote 186, 134 Members and Members registered, for 48, against 52. The motion was not accepted. Furthermore, a health committee was proposed. I have begun the vote on the commandment to the Health Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 187 vote, 134 Members and Members registered, for 31, against 70. This proposal has not been adopted. Furthermore, Mr Benda has proposed a constitutional committee. I have begun the vote on the commandment to the Constitutional Legal Committee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 188 vote, 134 Members and Members registered, for 119, against 1. The motion was accepted. The last proposal is the Committee on Social Policy. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the Social Policy Committee, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 189 vote, 134 Members and Members registered, for 32, against 63. The motion was not accepted. There is still a proposal from the Minister to shorten the time limit on which I will vote. Initiating vote to shorten the deadline to 30 days. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 190 vote, 134 Members and Members registered, for 81, against 29. The motion was accepted. I therefore note that the bill was ordered to the Foreign Committee as a committee of guarantee, further to the Committee on Budgets, to the Constitutional Law Committee, and the deadline was reduced to 30 days. I'm ending reading this bill first. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. The next item is:
