ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u1	269. Draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2017 /German press 986/ I ask the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka to present this material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u2	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, the material submitted to the draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2017 has been processed on the basis of Section 6c of Act 256/2000 Coll., on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, as amended. The draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2017 is respected in accordance with Section 6c of Act No. 256/2000 Coll., on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund, a total subsidy from the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture for the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2017 amounting to CZK 37 billion 230 million 918 thousand. Of this, 35 billion 290 million CZK 918 thousand are earmarked for the common agricultural policy, 170 million for marketing activities and CZK 1 billion 770 million for administrative expenditure. The draft budget for 2017 is based on the allocated subsidies from the Chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture for the State Agricultural Intervention Fund notified by the administrator of Chapter 25 July 2016 and on 18 August 2016. The basic revenues in the draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2017 represent the mentioned subsidy from the chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture of a total of CZK 37 billion 230 million 918 thousand, of which the subsidy from the state budget is CZK 6 billion 538 million 958 thousand and the subsidy from the budget of the European Union is CZK 30 billion 691 million 960 thousand. Assigned subsidies from Chapter of the Ministry of Agriculture for 2017 for direct payments of the Rural Development Programme, including a horizontal rural development plan and marketing activity, do not fully cover the estimated expenditure of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund in 2017. There is no funding for direct payments, transitional national support, the Rural Development Programme, including a horizontal rural development plan, and will be covered by claims on unused expenditure from previous years, and the marketing activity will be covered by the balance of funds from 2016 and will also be included in the budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund as part of its first amendment. Other revenue used to draw up the draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2017 amounts to a total of CZK 544 million, of which the financial levy on sugar production, including the share of sugar, is CZK 145 million 54,000, sales revenues of CZK 382 million 985,000, revenues of technical assistance to the Rural Development Programme are CZK 16 million and other revenue from own activities, for renting offices, equipment etc. 60,000 crowns. Expected intervention purchases of CZK 245 million in 2017 will be financed by the Ministry of Agriculture's loan. To secure the common agricultural policy, funds of CZK 36 billion are CZK 40 million, of which CZK 23 billion is CZK 188 million for direct payments, the rural development programme, including the horizontal rural development plan, is CZK 11 billion 400 million, and the common market organisation measures are CZK 1 billion 452 million. In 2017, the State Agricultural Intervention Fund envisages administrative expenditure of CZK 1 billion 810 million 736 thousand. Here I would like to point out that last year this amount was lower, but it was then covered under the budgetary change from unused claims of previous years. As far as administrative expenditure is concerned, the State Agricultural Intervention Fund of the Czech Republic belongs to the eight best funds within the European Union in proportion to the total administrative amount and the total cost of administrative expenditure. The Ministry of Agriculture allocated a subsidy of CZK 1 billion to these expenditures of CZK 770 million. These funds increased by the share of sugar levies, revenue from technical assistance to the Rural Development Programme and own-activity revenue allow full administrative expenditure to be covered. Expenditure on marketing activities is expected by the State Agricultural Intervention Fund of CZK 250 million. These expenditures are covered by the amount of funds of only CZK 170 million, the difference of CZK 80 million will be covered by the balance of funds from 2016 and will be included in the budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund in its first amendment. The total resources and their use in 2017 represent funds of CZK 38 billion 21 million 317 thousand and fully respect the expenditure framework established by the methodology for drawing up the State budget for 2017 including the balance. The draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2017 was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic on 23 November 2016. The draft budget submitted was drawn up in accordance with the relevant regulations of the European Commission issued for the common agricultural policy and, at the same time, respects the conditions laid down for its implementation in the Czech Republic by the relevant regulations of the Government of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your support and your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u3	Thank you, Minister. The resolution of the agricultural committee has been delivered to you as press 986/1, and I ask that Mr Kováčik take the floor as the apologised rapporteur of Mr Velebný, who will inform us of the committee's deliberations and also make a motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u4	Thank you for the floor. Madam and gentlemen, I wish you a good day and allow me to introduce you to the resolution, namely the 142th resolution, the Agriculture Committee of the 37th meeting of 15 December 2016 on the draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2017, House press 986. Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies after the opening words of Deputy Minister of Agriculture Jiří Šír and director of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund Martin Šebestián, report by Mr Ladislav Velebný and after the debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies the draft budget of the State Agricultural Intervention Fund for 2017, by the House press 986, to approve without comment; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies; III. empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. Mr Bendl and Mr Pavera's application is here. Mr Bendl prefers Mr Paver. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u6	Nice and pleasant morning, Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, colleagues. I'm only going to get off briefly because I've already commented on the SZIF's budget on the agricultural committee. We all know that our agriculture certainly needs subsidies, because without subsidies and support from the state, our farmers will not be able to do so. I will begin by commending the Minister, of course, with the fact that he is, after all, focusing more on some of the things that we have criticized in the past. It is not as much as we would like it to be, and it is more of a support for animal production and, of course, greening, which I think is the right way. Even in the future, there should be even greater support, greater use of biomass in incorporation into the soil. I'm just going to briefly mention what bothers me and what I disagree with, neither I nor my colleagues. So, of course, it's support for big companies that can handle themselves without any subsidies, I mean food companies that get subsidies from the Rural Development Programme and wouldn't have to. I just want to ask because I've learned some information, maybe it's just some noise, but the Minister will explain it because some big companies that have more than a thousand employees receive subsidies from the Rural Development Programme to support food production and food processing. It is Mr. Babiš's companies, such as OLMA, Vodňan chicken, Kostelecký uzeniny, where micro firms, small companies and medium-sized companies are mainly supported from the Rural Development Programme, and small companies are up to 250 employees. But maybe the Minister will explain that, because the information is. And for example, Olma is an innovation for fermented products, for Vodňanský chicken it is a development in the process of intake of live poultry with an impact on the quality of meat, for Kosteleecké sausages it is the development and innovation of the process of cutting and packaging meat products. So only so much, but I believe the Minister will get to that. Already proven criticism, and I'm sure it will come from my colleague Bendl, and that is marketing support, which is 250 miles. koruna, which rather focuses on the Klasa. I think that more support should be given, not to those big producers, but to those small regional food producers, regional products, which I think has already started to happen in the past, which, of course, belongs to the Minister. But I think the support could, of course, be much bigger. The SZIF budget also includes support for school milk, fruit and vegetables for schools. While I am in favour of healthy nutrition in schools, I do not know whether those who provide subsidies, i.e. SZIF, if it checks how these foods are handled. Come to the school cafeteria sometime and see what the kids are doing with it, and I don't know if it's the right way to put it in the school cafeteria and support it that way. It would certainly be worth checking, reviewing this support, because I think it doesn't fall on as fertile soil as we all would like. So much for me and the TOP 09. We will certainly not support this budget, even though we know that our farmers urgently need these subsidies, precisely for the reasons that I have been talking about and which still bother me that they are not fully settled. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Bendl has the floor now, and the Minister has the floor after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear government, colleagues, allow me to say a few words about this key material, which concerns the operation of the agricultural sector. Because, as has already been said, it is approximately 35 billion. crowns which are intended for this area. We had a rather detailed debate on the agricultural committee and devoted a large part of the details. For example, we also discussed the deadline for the payment of funds to so-called. agroen's support, because last year, farmers failed to meet these requests too quickly. And as far as I know, it doesn't always happen. There are cases where farmers apply for these aids, but they are not yet administered, nor do they even see the imaginary light in the tunnel until the applications are settled. And that's what we talked about on the agricultural committee. Just as I asked whether the Ministry of Agriculture has or intends to do some assessment of the effectiveness of existing aids that go into sensitive areas. I was mainly talking about promoting pork production, because the disease fund that has been introduced in the past, which is intended to support this area, so that the Czech Republic will improve in pork production and have better results towards the quantity produced versus the quantity of pig meat consumed, it is already several billion crowns that will be consumed in this area, but pork production is not rising very much. I think it would like to analyse why this is so, if we are not able to find some new forms, more effective. Because at least the numbers I have at my disposal do not show that the area of support in this part of the livestock production is in any way effective. Yes, we also talked about the marketing, the planned one, the minister said 170 million, but he probably meant that it was part of the 250 million planned for the production support fund. But according to my information, another fund is being created. Department of Agriculture...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u9	Colleagues and colleagues, please remain calm so that Mr Bendl can continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u10	A new fund is being created if I am well informed. The Ministry of Agriculture wants to finance marketing support for individual sensitive areas in agriculture through the State Agricultural Intervention Fund and wants to introduce compulsory levies on dairy producers, pigmeat, beef, poultrymeat, eggs, fruit, vegetables and potatoes. He wants every farmer to contribute to the so-called a marketing fund that would have been paid through the State Agricultural Intervention Fund and would have been paid not only by producers, producers, but also by sellers. The moment we implement this mandatoryly, it means some kind of tax burden from my point of view of those producers. But at the same time, it will concern the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. Therefore, I want to ask if you are already counting on this budget. Whether or not you are prepared and whether or not you are serious about imposing an obligation on all producers and sellers in this area, which I quote, to send money to the State to divide them through a commission. Whether you count on it or not. Because I don't consider it a wise decision. That's why I'm asking at this point. I ask the Minister for a response. [[11.40 hours]] There is one more thing that we have discussed quite in detail, and these were intervention purchases. I was promised at the meeting of the Agriculture Committee that the Ministry of Agriculture would provide some information as to how this is going, what the effectiveness of the resources spent was, and so far nothing has happened since the negotiations of the Agricultural Committee. Therefore, please, why did this not happen, whether I would receive information or whether I should ask for it again in writing and how things are. Because the 245 million spent on intervention purchases, we should probably know what system it's running from, who we're buying from, how much we sell, and so on. The minister here was talking about loans. I've never seen the details of this, which is why I'd beg them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u11	Thank you. If the Minister agrees, I would prefer President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, hello. Let me warn all of us that a Member of the Ukrainian Parliament, Nadija Savčenková, visited us at the gallery. Let us give her a warm greeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u13	I welcome the lady in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u14	I also thank you for this entry and for the welcome of the Member. I would therefore, with permission, now respond in substance to the draft budget on the State Agricultural Intervention Fund. In relation to what Mr Pavera said, I would like to point out that in the Czech Republic, a system of support for processing and development of food industry is set up by supporting companies to 250 employees under the Rural Development Programme. Firms over 250 employees are supported by national funds, from subsidy programme No. 13, which was established in 2005. This subsidy program works by submitting applications to all companies that meet all the conditions. Some amount is earmarked for this subsidy programme and according to the breakdown of the share of how much will go to the company, their investment contributions are satisfied, which means the firm does not know in advance how much it will receive. This will be settled at the end of the year, i.e. that the aid was in the past somewhere between 20 and 35 percent, with the notified ceiling now being the maximum of 50, in 2016 the aid for all projects, which was 396 million. CZK, was 36 percent of the co-financed costs. So much for explaining how this is set up, because the interest of the Czech Republic and the Czech agriculture and food industry is that we in the Czech Republic process the commodities we produce here to have a final product with added value, where we employ people, and can apply such a product on our market or abroad. I would also like to say on the aid towards small and medium-sized enterprises. There's been a lot of work in three years. I'm just going to sum up the state that today is to make us realize that. Within the framework of the common agricultural policy, businesses over 1,150 hectares are reduced to revenue for direct payments. In the case of the Rural Development Programme, where we talk mainly about area payments for disadvantaged areas, i.e. payments for permanent grassland, there is a reduction in the payment already being reduced for enterprises over 300 hectares, for enterprises around 2 000 hectares, the payment is reduced by 35 per cent to those below 300 hectares. So there's quite a lot of degression. Small and medium-sized farms are also favoured in this way. I would also remind you that in three years we have also made some significant changes to the benefit of small farmers and farmers who produce food and possibly sell their goods from the yard. There is a change, for example, in the area of entitlement to legislation, marking, where we have tried, for example, nutritional values, requirements for some tests, and so on for small food professionals, as far as possible and not contrary to European legislation, so that claims against them are lower, and we intend to continue this trend. There have also been increased limits on sales opportunities directly from farmers, such as poultry, rabbits, nutria, etc. Small farmers can sell more than three or four years ago from court. About enough to support small farmers, processors, food professionals. Let me just remind you that, while I was in work, when we were writing out the new operational programme of the new rural development programme for farmers who asked for food processing, these applications were always met by 100% in both rounds. Every farmer who has asked to invest in food processing and has fulfilled the conditions has been fully satisfied. We can't say that in practically any other way except for these. In addition to what Mr Bendl said, I would add that we are always publishing a schedule for payments, all subsidy titles, we are discussing it with the agricultural public, with agricultural NGOs, it is transparently published in advance, and we are fulfilling this schedule with the exception of two cases last year, the case of payment under the agrienvi measure where the supplier error occurred, where the delay was two months. Here we apologized to farmers and, of course, the supplier had sanctions applied. And then in the case of the welfare measure, where there has been a large error rate among farmers and where we are completing its administration for this subsidy title these days. Otherwise, we meet the deadlines, on the contrary, we try to meet them even before the timetable. For the 2015 payout and 2016 payout, which is still ongoing in these months, we have accelerated the payout schedule even further and pressed down. I must say that, unlike other countries, we have quite a great deal of comfort towards farmers. For example, in Austria, they pay only in three payouts in a year, they do not go by the way of the Czech Republic, that we pay, as we complete checks, administration, and we pay much more often during the year. For example, the second aid package for dairy farmers and sows was paid first throughout the European Union in the Czech Republic. So many important things, I guess. As regards the evaluation of the effectiveness of both the Rural Development Programme and national subsidies, the rural development programme is already being evaluated in terms of the conditions set by the European Commission in the case of other aids. Of course, we are doing an evaluation on the ÚZEI side, and I want to have an analysis by the end of February of how the support last year showed itself in a state of stabilization of livestock production. It's a task assigned to my colleagues in the Strategy Department. I want to say so much about this fund. Yes, we are considering and discussing with the agricultural and food public that there would be a marketing fund that would support Czech consumers and educate them to buy more Czech products. It is an inspiration of similar funds, which are in Austria, Germany, France. We've done a rather detailed analysis on this, and today we're discussing it with the public concerned. The fund, if I say this very simply, should operate on the principle of the Wine Fund, which has been here since 2002. I think the Winery Fund has a positive impact on Moravian and Czech winemakers. That's probably what we heard here today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u15	Thank you, Minister. I have two factual points here. First, Mr Urban and then Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u16	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I don't want to delay or make myself an agricultural expert, but you know that I've already raised some questions on a similar issue here, and maybe it would be worth looking at in some way economically visionary way. There's one thing I can't figure out. If I am right, then that we are gradually increasing the subsidies at least in the quantification, and that is not a complaint, nor do I mean that we are increasing the amount, at least I suppose, of the budget every year and somehow it is at least valorizing or increasing, and it seems to me, or my information is such that our share of Czech food in consumption in the Czech Republic is falling. And I do not understand this, I would need to explain this, because either the structure of the subsidies is wrong, or the countries around us have more dynamics of subsidies and support to farmers, and therefore they are more competitive to produce, supply and export food to the Czech Republic, or just somewhere on that basis, it seems to me that there must be a logical error. If we raise money for farmers in order to increase the share of Czech production in Czech consumption and actually reality is the opposite, please, if someone tries to explain this to me, and I thank them in advance for this. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u17	Please, Mr Bendl - also a point of fact. [[Messenger. Can I do it right?]] No one else is logged in, so if you want a proper application, you have room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u18	Thank you for the proper. I will not be much longer than those two minutes, but a response to Mr Urban through the President. Since they are divided from a significant part of European money, it is difficult to say in the European space as a member country: this will only go to Czech companies or only to Czech products when we have borders in European format. The debate is much more complicated, but I understand it. And I think that we are all supposed to do everything we can to support Czech production in particular so that the European Commission may not have to blame us. I guess we agree that we're all going to be - and we've been looking for some form of what to do with it for a long time. But I would like to go back to what the Minister said here to support small and medium-sized companies with 250 employees. I wanted to ask and please really answer the microphone, Minister. If I, as Petr Bendl, own two companies for 200 employees, can I apply and be taken into the system of applications for support? And if I don't have 200 employees twice as much as Petr Bendl, but once 400, then I'm already over 250 employees, then, if I understand it, I'll automatically be eliminated from the application system. I'm particularly interested in whether, as Petr Bendl, I can have 10 companies with 200 employees or 20 companies with 200 employees, and then it doesn't concern me as a company owner or if it concerns me. I think you understand my question very well. Thank you for answering the questions that were relevant to the analysis. I assume you'll give it to us when the Department of Agriculture gets it. I'd just like to ask you when it's probably gonna be that way, so we know it doesn't just go away. And it would be good to hear the mic again when the analysis will be done. And as regards the payment of subsidies by Austria versus the Czech Republic, there was a problem that the agricultural public in the debate with the Ministry of Agriculture expected that agroenvi, I will say, the demands and demands that individual agricultural companies have will be satisfied within some time. And I would remind you that it was 2015 and it took a very long time in 2016 for farmers to be satisfied, and some are still not. Some aren't to this day! So the principle is that we're giving support for the previous year for the previous year, if you know what I mean. The aid for 2015 will simply be granted to farmers in mid-2016. Aid for 2016 will be granted to farmers in the second half of 2017. That's what we're fighting for right now, and what we're asking is whether we're able to speed up the paycheck. Because, on the other hand, if you give support to companies on December 24 or December 20 of the year in question, what will it do with tax returns and all that investment planning etc., it's always complicated. Of course, this means a lot to the stability of the agricultural sector, especially for small and small and medium-sized ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I thank you, Mr Member, and I ask if anyone else is still reporting in the context of the general debate. Please, Minister with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u20	Excuse me, I would like to respond to what Mr Urban said. The situation is that thanks to the investments that we are trying to move towards the food industry, it is successful, but very slowly, to increase, and not for all commodities, dependence on foreign imports. [[Slow down?]] That means we're slowly growing self-sufficiency. But I say, far from all commodities, because we have a relatively strong phenomenon that has now been shown to us on the basis of a really objective survey of the Ministry of Finance's employees, where business policy - I point out some business chains is really set up so that the margin system is able to significantly favour the products mostly from the country where the parent company of the chain is based. This means, when I give an example, they take butter from their supplier, for example, from Germany, if the chain is located in Germany, and from the supplier from the Czech Republic. We have verified that the purchase price from both food subjects is practically the same, but they will give a significantly higher margin on the product from the Czech Republic. This product is logically a consumer, it takes five to ten more crowns on a quarter of butter, and it is simply no longer able to buy. And they put a much lower margin on German butter, so it's still profitable, but logically the consumer prefers these products much more. We see this trend significantly in dairy products over the last year, and therefore our efforts, which have now finally been given some real outlines on the European Commission's soil, when we have finally managed to push the activity so that the Commissioner has said, in the conclusions of the December Council of Agriculture Ministers, it is that, even on these, say, unequal unfair conditions of trade chain behaviour, legislation will be prepared for the whole EU, because today, when I also had negotiations with the UOHS, or with colleagues from the departments concerned, the MIT and the Ministry of Finance, we do not have a legislative instrument that we can rely on in order for these margins to be dealt with at retail prices. So this is partly the answer to your question that I will confirm or say that if we look at the development of agrarian foreign trade, he is also able to increase the share of exports from the Czech Republic in food products, but unfortunately the increase in imports is still faster. To what was said here by Mr Bendl. Mr Member, you yourself, when you have been a minister for almost three years, should probably be able to answer it yourself and very well, because there is a clear recommendation from the European Commission and its audit authorities about 2005 that clearly tells us that if it is a business of agricultural primary production, then property interconnection is not being investigated, in the case of businesses and investments in food industry, it is being examined and there, if you should have enterprises connected with property, so if you have more than one enterprise than 250 employees, you will not meet the requirements of the Rural Development Programme and you cannot apply in this subsidy title as a food farmer. And this is how we proceed in the Czech Republic, and it was done for you when you were a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u21	Thank you, too, Minister. I'm making one point of fact. I'll read an apology first. Today, from 9 to 13 o'clock for work reasons, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes. Now, then, Mr Šrámek, with his point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to respond here to Mr Urban, who asked, since we have so much support, why it is so, why the imports are falling. The answer to that question would be perhaps an hour, but I will try to answer that in a few brief points. The processing industry in the Czech Republic was very disappointed and the processing companies simply disappeared in the Czech Republic. Either in the 1990s they died out because of wild privatization, or in recent years because of the fact that livestock production is very much reduced, which are actually commodities that are very dependent on the manufacturing industry, so of course the processing industry is also disappearing. It's been turning a little bit lately. I must commend the Minister very much, because the Minister is really helping small and medium-sized primary producers and producers, yard sales, etc., but it must also be mentioned here that it is not just about money. It is also about the fact that many primary livestock producers disappeared in the Czech Republic, but the number of control bodies remained. So lately, small producers have been exposed to literally enormous pressure, literally to the fagilant control mechanism of the Czech control authorities, especially from veterinary administration. [[12.00 hours]] We had 39 checks last year. That's what you check for every week. Whereas this is not much happening with large producers. Although not for large producers, but for those who import food to us, they are not subject to these checks in those countries of their own. They are very supported, for example, by Polish producers, French and German producers, Austrian producers, they are very much supported by local, local administration and local actually by control and even local policies, and that is unfortunately not happening with us. The number of primary producers and processors has fallen to almost a third, but the number of employees in the control administration has not changed. So today you basically have three times as many controllers on a given manufacturer. You're facing three times as much checks as before. And I think this is what I would like to call - we have been dealing with the Minister lately. I would like to ask that this really be dealt with, because those small and medium-sized producers are really exposed to excessive control of completely nonsensical measures. Really Franz Kafka style. If you read Kafka, you will understand there why this works in the Czech lands. But once again, I would like to commend - the Minister is really trying to support small and medium-sized processors, but the audit authorities are still almost in the style of the old socialist establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u23	Thank you, too. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u24	Thank you for the floor. And first of all, to my previous speaker through the President. Ask the Association of Private Agriculture what they think about supporting the small and medium sector in agriculture, and you will find that there are no big commendations. But I forgot one more thing, and this concerns the creation of a new marketing fund and the introduction of compulsory contributions into a fund where 20 people or 20 members of the commission are to decide how to split the money of all who produce potatoes, milk, meat, etc. Everything I read here. The difference between the plan, at least as I have learned, is significantly that the levy is not mandatory with the Wine Fund, but the planned marketing fund of the Ministry of Agriculture is mandatory. I think there's a significant difference that we should be thinking about right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u25	I thank you and ask if anyone else is joining the general debate. Because no one... Mr. Secretary reporting. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u26	Since Mr Bendl here was talking about asking the Association of Private Agriculture about the support of small and medium-sized farmers in the Czech Republic, I would just like to say a few numbers here. During the period 2007 to 2013, when six years were ODS ministers, up to CZK 240 million paid off for small farmers in projects up to CZK 1 million. In two years, for two rounds of calls from this coalition, small farmers were obliged to pay more than CZK 1 billion. So these are the numbers of seven years - 240 million crowns, two years - 1 billion. Of this, in the final round, the third, small farmers who applied for livestock projects were satisfied by 100%. Everyone who's handed themselves over from small farmers gets a hundred percent. No one else had such satisfaction except for the farmers of processors in that third round. That's my real answer in numbers, whether we do enough for small farmers or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u27	Thank you. Mr Bendl with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u28	These numbers can be juggled in different ways. And either the glass is half-empty or half-full. And it's always possible to pull something out of context and say, look, the absolute number is like that. That's what we'd have to put in the numbers that go to support others. And the way they put themselves at a disadvantage in the small and medium market, what we want them to do behind bureaucracy, it's not an excess of subsidies, after all. This is rather worrying about all the administration associated with production. That's where we keep them from being competitive. They - and I think the blind just don't see that the bigger ones just have an advantage in the market. And it's not about the subsidy rate, if they've gotten a million more or less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u29	Thank you. So I'm asking if anyone else is applying. I don't see anyone. If this is the case, I am ending the general debate and I am asking whether the appellant or rapporteur would like to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I ask who is reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. Mr rapporteur, will you refer us to the committee resolution so that we can vote on it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u30	Thank you for the floor. I will just remind you that the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies adopted the 142th resolution at the 37th meeting of 15 December, recommended to the Chamber of Deputies a draft budget of SZIF for 2017, the House press 986, to approve without comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-004-269.u31	Thank you. As I see no further application for a detailed debate, I conclude a detailed debate and ask whether you want to take the final floor - Minister, rapporteur? It's not like that. I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to come to the vote, and then I will vote. Once again, I will read the motion for a resolution on which we will vote, which is: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft budget of SZIF for 2017 I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It's a 68-order vote. 148 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 98, against 2. I note that this proposal has been approved. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. I'm opening the first point of the contract block, and that's it.
