ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u1	42. Members of Martin Sedlář, Martin Stropnický, Jana Černochová, David Kádner and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 585/2004 Coll., on defence obligations and its provision (the Defence Act), as amended, and Act No. 45/2016 Coll., on the service of soldiers in reserve / House print 1094 - first reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. You have received the Government's position as House Press 1094/1. I ask now that Mr Martin Sedlář present the motion in favour of the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u2	Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to briefly introduce you to the draft law amending Act No. 585/2004 Coll., on defence obligations and its provision, defence law, as amended, and Act No. 45/2016 Coll., on the service of soldiers in reserve. On 1 July 2016, a large-scale regulation of the defence law and a new Act on reserve service began to apply. These legislation has fundamentally changed the conditions for serving soldiers in active reserve. The proposed bill is therefore an attempt to eliminate the negative effects that have simply been reflected in the real practice of the last major amendment to the law and the new Act on the service of soldiers in reserve. Although these are not major problems, some of the set parameters are perceived negatively by the soldiers involved in the active backup and, as a result, may discourage especially new people interested in active backup service, which would be completely against the spirit of strengthening our country's defence capabilities. Specifically, it is proposed in the defence law: First, clarify the distinction of regular military exercises on classical, educational and ceremonial. Classical - regular military exercises, training units; educational - courses and other educational activities; ceremonial - when they only participate in events to promote the armed forces in public. Second, extend the length in the second and the next year of regular exercises from four to six weeks a year and unite the length of exercises for so-called street soldiers and former professional soldiers. With regard to a separate maximum length of military exercises, which extends from four weeks per year to six, we are in no way counting on fulfilling this maximum length for all soldiers in active reserve. It's a given maximum. It is merely the creation of space for the participation of some soldiers in professional courses, which are then taken up by this time and currently actually exhausts the specified annual length of exercise, and then these soldiers can no longer participate in training with their unit. Regular military exercises, as I have already said, for six weeks, will therefore be an exception, not a rule. Third, for ceremonial exercises that are not longer than two days, instead of medical examinations at the beginning and at the end of the exercise, only an honest declaration of the soldier's current medical condition is introduced, which is a significant simplification. In the event of a sick soldier taking up military training, a non-entry fiction is introduced. It will free us from the obligation to pay him for 14 days of compensation as in the case of the onset of the disease up to the exercise. Part two, reserve service law. In this particular case, it is proposed that: First, add to Sections 7 and 46 the lack of adjustment for the special status of Director of Military Intelligence against the active reserve in his subjection. I'm adding, it's a possibility for a soldier in active reserve to withdraw rank. [[11.00 hours]] Second, release special arrangements for travel requirements of soldiers in reserve in the service. This will fully take over the regulation applicable to professional soldiers and will unify the conditions, where unfortunately the soldiers in reserve in the service do not qualify for allowance on a foreign business trip. Thirdly, increase the reward for a soldier in active reserve by up to CZK 14,400 per year after 12 years of inclusion into active backup, which would be paid gradually, so again CZK 14,400 is a certain maximum, gradually according to the number of serviced days of military exercise. The aim is to alleviate the difference between the income that a soldier has in active reserve in civilian employment and during military exercise while introducing an incentive factor not only to increase interest in entering active backups, but also for the longest possible maintenance of the already trained soldiers in the active backup that we have invested in. He also undertakes to claim the basic amount of CZK 18,000 with at least seven days of exercise per year. And the last, fifth point - the error resulting from the amendment in the final phase of the approval law is removed, so it is clear that a simpler regime for the inclusion of a former professional soldier in an active advance can only be applied within two years after the termination of the service. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill contains relatively simple but very important changes, which must be put into practice as soon as possible. In view of this, and taking into account the security situation, as Mr President has already mentioned, the Chamber of Deputies proposes to give its consent to the bill pursuant to Section 90 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 Act No. 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, already at first reading. Finally, I would like to say that the Government has adopted a favourable position on this proposal. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u3	I thank the appellant and I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Ivan Gabal to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I have the privilege of being the rapporteur only and only because I am the only one who is not signed by the Defence Committee under the proposal of this amendment. That means you have a proposal before you almost complete the defense committee. And since I'm gonna support this proposal, too, take it it's a whole defense committee across the House. It is a rather special situation, I think, given the patterns, which is why I would like to draw attention to it. De facto we continue this week for the second time in the debate about defending the country, especially involving citizens in this defence, we are amending the relevant defence law and participating in active advances. This time, however, we are talking about people who have their place in voluntary advances, have their equipment, have their commanders, know their mission and strive to get their training conditions as close as possible to the real performance of the service. This is important because it comes to the interests of those who really want to participate in defending the country, practice etc. This is, of course, what the Defence Committee is trying to propose - and with the support of the government - as well as the relevant conditions of career, financial and facilitating participation. And it needs to be remembered that the active backups, as their number is somewhere in the order of, I think, thousands of five hundred, are an important part and a certain link between the professional army and the wider public, and that is their unmistakable and important role. They also have their own history, they have their own careers, so they also have the recognition of careers, ranks, promotions and positions of service and their reflection in rewards for members of active advances. So let me conclude by pointing out that this time we are talking about people who do not see their participation in the defense of the country as a photo with a Winchester in the kitchen, but as a service in uniform. In this, the Defence Committee wants to facilitate their cooperation and participation for all of us. Thank you for your attention. Of course, I also support the shortened approval at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mrs Jana Černochová joined the first. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm one of the plaintiffs, so very briefly. I really think this standard will help active backups. As Members, we have fulfilled our promise, which we have given to active agents after adopting the standard a year and a half ago, when we said that we would still want to process things that are not going to be perfect there during this parliamentary term. But what puzzles me, colleagues, is that Minister Stropnický does not bother to sit here during the negotiation of the defence law. Does that seem normal to you? Do you think it's normal that we're discussing the law here and the Secretary of Defense isn't sitting here? Where is he? Was he excused? Or is he campaigning somewhere? [[Notes from the diaper that the Secretary of Defense is excused.]] Like the dates I suggested on Tuesday when I was designing points for the program, there were three. That the Minister does not vote for the classification of his own standards he signs is another matter. But he's supposed to be sitting here tonight! [[The Member shall gradually raise the vote.]] And I have every desire to propose a break, but I'm not gonna do it because it's 90. I know what this means to those soldiers. But I'm really asking here to appeal to members of the government coalition to force ministers to sit here while their points are being discussed, here on their ass, so they can tell us something about it. I know that this is a parliamentary initiative, because the failure of the Minister of Defence of Stropnický has come to such an extent that he is not even able to prepare and discuss his bill. So he's using us as Members to pass the laws to the Chamber of Deputies for him. It's okay. But it's his agenda, his resort, and let him sit here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u7	I apologise, Mr Brázdil, Mr Chalupa, factual remarks take precedence. I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u8	Thank you for the floor. My colleague, through Mr President, you know that Members are also people, not including members of the government. When a person is sick and apologizes for medical reasons, it is sufficient that you do not raise your voice. And you knew it, it was read at the beginning. For God's svatý, let's not be so... From a medical point of view, even you can be sick one day. He apologized, apologized properly, it's not a dilettante, so come on and let's take the '90s vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u9	I thank the honourable Member and confirm that the Minister is really excused for health reasons. Mr Chalupa, followed by President Stanjura, is another registered comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u10	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, for the floor. I just -- it really was an unnecessary attack on the minister, it wasn't entirely fair. And if we're all here to talk about the defence and security of our country, please, let's look for ways to communicate with each other in a normal way, not how to push the situation in a completely unfair way, especially when we hear that the Minister has been excused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u11	Thank you. President Stanjura with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u12	Well, if I'm gonna take this case to a nice one, let's deal with this together. [[unintelligible]] I'm in. Along with the Minister. That seems normal to me. I'm not questioning his illness. In that case, it's perfectly normal for your club chairman or vice president to perform in the morning and say, "It's important for us, the minister can't today, he's excused for health reasons, let's agree to meet here on July 12th, we'll discuss it. Nothing would have happened, considering how the Senate meetings were planned. Nothing would happen. Do you even know when the Senate will be sitting? Whether we're under time pressure or not. I know that. Such apologies are such childish apologies. And then you tell a colleague who's absolutely right. If only it was the first time. If it's the first time, I'm sure we're above it, but that's the rule of how ministers go around here. Let's take a look at yesterday's interpellation - a stake in the fence, a new minister of education, not a foot. Not a foot! The Treasury Secretary, who preached to us here on Tuesday and accused you of speaking, failed how many points yesterday? Six. Because he was excused. So let's agree to meet in September so we can get to the law. Let's not worry about it here in July. And we can campaign, too. I'm in. And it's not like we're gonna see-- now we're gonna get points, we're gonna see how many ministers here are going to be to those points that are then after paragraph 194. Or we'll hear yeah again, we didn't expect it to go so fast today. Then the Minister is not here, let's interrupt, let's interrupt. I'm afraid so. I asked if it would happen on a domestic cruise, I guess not, the Minister of Transport isn't here, so if it did, we'd stop anyway. It's all over again. If someone points to it, maybe with a raised voice, we can take down some decibel, that's no problem, so here you jump like hornets, which we dare. Why didn't the government prepare this bill on a proposal from the Minister of Defence? Why didn't this bill pass the standard commentary procedure? What's the Secretary of Defense doing? I'll swallow poisonous notes, I won't say it. I was just thinking when I was watching the TV show, and I'm not gonna say anything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Vladimír Koníček. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u14	Thank you. I will respond to the last question of President Stanjura because on the official website of the Ministry of Defence arma.cz It's written information that the Minister has been laying a wreath at the grave of an unknown private since 10:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u15	These are indeed different from health reasons. I believe as a member of the House's leadership that the Minister will justify his own - if that's a lie - the House's leadership. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I am asking about the final words of the appellant, or the rapporteur, as the case may be. Not interested. No objection has been raised, so we will decide according to paragraph 90 of paragraph 5 on the continuation of this proposal. I shall make a motion for a resolution. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby, I'll sign you all out, please sign up with your voting cards. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 1094 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I am opening the vote on this resolution. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is a 129 vote, 108 Members and Members registered, for 100, against 3. The motion was accepted. It was therefore decided that the negotiations would continue, and I am initiating a detailed debate, which was the first to be heard by Mr Miroslav Opálka. It's not like that, I'm sorry. The rapporteur. Please, rapporteur, for a detailed debate. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u16	Thank you. I forgot to point out one more thing in the final words that, in the context of certain reservations that are being raised here, it is important to stress that the Defence Committee's partner in the preparation of this legislation was the Ministry of Defence and did a great deal of work on it, and I wanted to thank them this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-009-042.u17	I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. If no one reports, I will conclude a detailed debate. I am asking about the final words of the appellant, or the rapporteur, as the case may be. Not interested. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the motion of Members Martin Sedlář, Martin Stropnický, Jana Černochová, David Kádner and others to issue a law amending Act No. 585/2004 Coll., on defence obligations and its provision, as amended, and Act No. 45/2016 Coll., on the service of soldiers in reserve, according to the House press 1094. [[Defense Act]] I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is the 130 vote, 119 Members and Members registered, for 114, against 1. I'm stating that the bill has been approved, and I'm done talking. The next item is:
