ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u1	289. Proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies on the Constitution and on international treaties I believe it's a lot to discuss, that it was an important law that we adopted a moment ago, but I'm going to ask you for some peace of mind. We still have half an hour to discuss. [[Restlessness in the room.]] Thank you. Please take your seats, we will continue. I now ask that Mr Zdeněk Soukup take the floor. Well, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, the Constitution of the Czech Republic adopted on 16 December 1992 by the Czech National Council was relatively stable until 2013. In 23 years until June 2013, our predecessors only amended it eight times. The amendments concerned 22 articles, 9 articles were supplemented, 2 articles inserted, 1 article deleted. The stability of the Constitution is valued as a sign of advanced democracy. We are referring to the immutability of the fundamental principle of the state's arrangement, i.e. the balance of legislative, executive and judicial power. As this balance is enshrined in our Constitution, it represents a solid pillar of democracy, and that is one of the things on which the greatest consensus prevails. There's no question about that. However, some other aspects of the Constitution are being discussed. I propose that this debate should have a democratic and constructive framework in order to result in professionally -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u3	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. So that you don't have to shout everyone out, please transfer your discussions to the lobby, let the Member speak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u4	- to result in expertly-founded consensual and constructive proposals that we would be able to discuss or accept. In recent years, there has been significant changes in the globalised world, and fatal changes can be said. We are facing the reality of the migration crisis. Terrorism shakes the hope of coexistence between two cultures - European and Islamic. Controversies are also escalating within economically advanced countries, among which we, fortunately, are. The birth rate is decreasing, the population is getting older. There are growing young healthy people who parasite and abuse the advanced social system. Many politicians and economists point out in the above context the need to revise the constitution and some international treaties incorporated into the national constitution. These are contracts and agreements concluded in a completely different situation in the world than today's. I am thinking, above all, of the 1948 Human Rights Charter. Thus we hear voices calling for change from France, Holland, Italy, Belgium, Austria, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and other countries affected by migration, manifestations of radical Islamism and pressure on social systems. These are central topics in our country as well. There's a growing tension in society. But back to reality. I was talking about how intact the Constitution has been, how stable the Constitution has been in the last 23 years. In the last three years, i.e. at present, the Constitutional Legal Committee of the Chamber of Deputies has registered 140 subjects for amendments to the Constitution. It is not due to the zeal of our Members. Recently I had the honour to present my ideas in Karolin about necessary legislative changes on the prestigious series of seminars under the name Law Autumn. I am surprised and pleased to find that some experts are calling for constitutional law after the revision of the Constitution. Of course, all of us have different ideas about changing our minds. I was going to present some of my ideas here, but I'm going to abstain to prevent everyone here from saying their ideas, because that would stretch too much, and I believe we'll discuss it directly on the committee if we approve it. We seem to agree on the general need for revision of the Constitution. Opinions on specific changes are likely to vary. The constitution is not a tearing calendar. Any changes must be treated with consideration, with some perspective, after discussion with both the professional and lay public. These are the reasons why I propose the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the Constitution and international treaties. The Institute of the Commission has one priority - it is possible to invite the professional public in addition to the Members. In this case, I am thinking of experts on constitutional law from both the academic sphere and practice. Just to the edge. The process of updating the Constitution should be permanent, continuous, and time is not needed. That's my answer to the expected objection, and I'm sure she'll be here to set up the panel next time the House is elected. By the way, the Senate already has a similar commission. I suppose, and I'm counting on us to establish a very close cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask that you take the floor at the rapporteur's table and follow with me the general debate that I am opening up with this. With priority rights, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, thank you to all those who have seen it since the beginning of the parliamentary term. I personally proposed the establishment of this commission at the beginning of the parliamentary term at the second meeting when we set up the Parliamentary bodies and, populically, some said that it would be another body where money would be given for someone being President and Secretary and so on. And what's the result? That we did not accept this either at the beginning of the parliamentary term or in the middle of the parliamentary term, when it was still meaningful. I'll tell you what the result is. We have one bill in second reading, constitutional law, amendment to the Constitution, so that's item 19. We have nine constitutional laws at first reading. We haven't started discussing either of them. The ordering, as we witnessed this morning, or this afternoon, those points are catastrophic. It's catastrophic! [[18.40 hours]] At all, but in no way are we concerned with the way in which we need to discuss the Constitution of the Czech Republic. salámový method, that's it! Someone could do that. But don't be mad at me in this respect, there are more important laws than the one that was included for tomorrow. Because I can't remind you that we have the Constitutional Act on the Supreme Audit Office back there. Don't you realize the embarrassment that the Czech political scene has made, especially those who voted against the proposal that went through here in order to ensure the necessary control in the Czech Republic? I really think that's awful. And there are three laws, among other things, that such a committee should discuss. The Constitutional Court Act, even if it is not constitutional, is an ordinary law, but in my opinion, it belongs to the hearing of such a commission. There is a right of assembly, which is one of the fundamental human rights. And what is in the bill deserves to be discussed, among other things, in the Constitutional Commission - to compare what the Constitution says. And at least the local referendum law, which would also deserve the commission. As far as international treaties are concerned, I don't think it belongs to that committee for one simple reason. Because the negotiation of international treaties is different in our country. It's called. Presidential treaties, and in this respect, it's a matter of executives. We then only implement ratification or ratification of such a contract. And this hearing according to my court is not a matter of the Czech Constitution Committee. Yes, I, too, argued that the Senate commission is working continuously, which concerns the Constitution and the various parliamentary procedures. That's what I said. But it didn't vote. So what are we gonna do today if we happen to approve the proposal that fell here? We'll put nominations at the next meeting, maybe we'll approve the members of the committee, and maybe even the chairman, if we don't argue about it, because here we have experience that the committee of inquiry hasn't had its chairman for a long time. And as for the proposal that is part of the motion for a resolution, it has one flaw, because the commission invites experts and it is up to it, that is, on the committee, because it is an institution of the Chamber of Deputies, and we will not bind it by this resolution to judge individual matters. At this point, I'm sorry, we really don't need that committee to take points. The Commission, when it started to work sometime in March, will not come to any conclusion, because constitutional laws are subject to a 60-day deadline for committee discussions, and it is only indicative there, and in this respect we are unable to complete any of these proposals unless there is a broad consensus. You know, I can really be glad that this proposal is here again, but personally, I'm not convinced that it's up to date at the moment. The current will be for the Chamber of Deputies elected in the autumn elections when the President of the Republic declares them. Because what happens around the Constitution of the Czech Republic, in my opinion, after 25 existence, is more about constitutional rights than her, I would say, the evaluation and strengthening of the Constitution as the peak of laws and rules in the Czech Republic. Forgive me, but as the plaintiff of the original draft of the Constitutional Commission, I'm being modest about the proposal. Perhaps it would be much more appropriate if the Constitutional Committee at least included it at its meeting - and I ask the President of the Constitutional Committee to include a point of discussion that will Unnegotiated constitutional proposals for the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, and if they are dealt with. It bothers me to answer journalists whether or not there will be a government referendum proposal. I take note of the Government's proposal for a referendum. Which is, among other things, a constitutional law, because of Art. II The Constitution of the Czech Republic says that only the constitutional law determines when the people exercise their power directly. That is why it must be a constitutional law, which may be the authorisation of another, but that is one of the seven versions that the KSČM club has submitted in the past. I am willing to discuss any law on referendums in this House in order to meet the need that is among the people, and therefore I will also support proposals which I consider to be poorly handled by legislation, because they can be discussed at least in the debate so that the Human Rights Minister finally takes a position on them and discusses, for example, in the government. a complete comprehensive amendment, which can be e.g. that bill on the referendum when I started the referendum law, which passed through the Chamber of Deputies, I think, for ministering Minister Cyril Svoboda, and then he was thrown down again by the Senate so that people would not, by chance, get that authority into their hands. I consider the proposal to be a late regret. I apologise, draftsman, but in any case, I would ask all those who will be in this Chamber of Deputies after the autumn elections to set up such a committee, because its work will be of the utmost need. I don't know how much we would ever be able to take a stand on that committee on that continuous Senate commission. Our commission cannot be continuous because the principle of discounting the Chamber of Deputies applies, which cannot be broken. All the proposals that we are going to discuss here, even if they are in this Constitutional Commission, cannot be discussed either way, and newly elected Members will have to propose them, whether it be any of us or anyone else who comes here to the Chamber of Deputies, again. I really consider this proposal to be a late regret. I'm sorry I kept you for so long.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I just want to clarify with Mrs Válková. Was that factual or proper? Really. In case it's factual, I'd like to ask the lady.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u8	Thank you. Mr President and Vice-President, dear colleagues, I am paradoxically in agreement with some of the arguments raised here by my previous speaker, Vice-President Filip. It's a late regret, of course the commission should have been set up long ago. I have never illusioned that the Sub-Committee on the Constitutional Legal Committee would have such prestige and competence as the quasi-permanent one could have - because, of course, the comment on the discounting that has been made here applies - a quasi-permanent committee which should also be a partner for the permanent Senate Commission and which, in my opinion, should place emphasis on priorities and make a certain order of constitutional laws in terms of their importance and in terms of the current discussion of other related and related laws. So on the one hand, better today than never, on the other hand, of course, it's quite late. And while I'm looking at that time, I'm very sorry that we won't be able to get to the long-advanced parliamentary proposal that we need very much, and we promised it to the lawyers. So I'd rather end my point of order. I also refer to this proposal in the sense that I would raise my hand for it, although I do not know if we will vote on it, I mean now that the permanent commission is set up, but I am aware that it is limited in the month of its possible action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u9	Thank you, too. With a point of fact, Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u10	Thank you for the floor. I can't not respond to Professor Válková. Don't be mad at me, Professor, but I have to respond. [[President: Through me.]] We, through the President, as a social democracy club at the beginning of the parliamentary term, were in favour of establishing a Constitutional Commission. It was designed by the KSČM Club and we supported it. But who was the one who said no, it's just gonna pay some president, it's gonna cost the House money, let's do the subcommittee on the Constitution, it's gonna do the same job and save one president's salary? It was the YES movement! And it's been three and a half years, you now, at an absolutely pointless time, come back with this proposal, which you rejected at the beginning of the parliamentary term, and you still say it's a shame that it won't get into the law of advocacy. Yes, it's a shame, but that's exactly it. This is completely pointless, what we're discussing right now, it's pointless. We're gonna be wasting our time here. It's either gonna come out or it's not gonna be the committee, and when it does, it's gonna be completely useless, because it's not gonna be able to discuss anything at all. And if that point had not been included, we had not voted for it as Social Democrats, so at this point, we had a point about advocacy.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u11	Thank you, Mr President, for keeping time. I note that the Minister has failed to take advantage of his preferential rights, although he initially declared himself duly. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me, too, make a few comments on this issue and on this proposal from the Permanent Commission on the Constitution. I will speak primarily as a Member, but I would also like to evaluate this issue from my experience as a minister. Honestly, I do not consider this proposal reasonable. I think there is a special body in the House to discuss constitutional issues. Although I agree with Vice-President Filip that this commission would have a purpose, but at the beginning of the term of office. After all, we have a constitutional committee, we have a subcommittee on the Constitution and Parliamentary Procedures, which is headed by colleague Tejc and which I think works very well. The subcommittee met twelve times in this parliamentary term and discussions on possible amendments to the Constitution were launched on this subcommittee in March 2014. So I do not see any deficit in this regard with regard to the work of an institution within the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to draw attention and perhaps ask for a possible response to the fact that this subcommittee, which I have mentioned, was set up as a partner body to the Senate Commission on the Constitution, precisely so that it can have a debate on possible amendments to the Constitution. And if we set up a permanent House Commission now, it will be duplicated against the subcommittee. Are we going to cancel the subcommittee after three years because a permanent commission will be established at the end of the term of office, or are we going to modify the subcommittee somehow? Even from that title, it seems unnecessary and illogical. A third point I consider essential, but Vice-President Filip said so. We have nine months until the end of the term of office. In those nine months, we're gonna have, I don't think it's gonna be extra long, but it's gonna be a vacation and there's gonna be an election campaign. That means if we set up a permanent commission today, we'll vote for the members of the commission in a month, the chairman of the commission in a month. Do we really want to set up a committee for such a short time right now, practically before the elections? I think that is not an urgent reason, and I would like to warn against the revision of the Constitution becoming a possible part of the election campaign and from this commission becoming an arena where some populist constitutional goulash will be brewed. As Minister for Legislation, I started a debate on the revision of the Constitution with experts last December. It is not because I would like to have a change in the Constitution, but I am interested in whether there is a need for a more comprehensive change, as it may result from the previous constitutional practice. And at this point, among the experts, I see the prevailing restraint regarding some substantial revision of the Constitution. And that's why I don't think, as I said before, I repeat, to create a new organ in the House for a few months. If such an idea were to come not in February 2017, but in October, November, December 2013 and perhaps even later, I would support this idea and I would be very pleased and I would also be very happy to participate in the work on this committee. But in February, because we have February tomorrow, in February 2017, I really consider this nonsense, which simply does not have logic precisely for the sake of time. Otherwise, I feel the need, but at this time, it's not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u13	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Grospič is the next envoy. Is the application also valid at this time as Mr Chvojka's Member? Deal. No. Okay. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I will follow up here on what many of my previous speakers have said, and above all I will mention the fact that representatives of both social democracy and Vice-President of the House, Mr Vojtěch Filip, who was the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, together with the support of, yes, social democracy, proposed the creation of a separate Commission for the Constitution, which would indeed be a partner body of the Senate. Unfortunately, as part of the savings, and this must be acknowledged by the YES movement, there has been an entirely opposite development. The path of the subcommittee was chosen, which was not always and not effectively able to fulfil the role of a partner for the Senate Commission. However, at present, I think that the proposal is highly populist and irrelevant, because if I take that overview of the amendments to the Constitution which took place during this parliamentary term, yes, the Constitution should be amended in 140 points, but for your idea, those amendments to constitutional laws were submitted 25 and of which, in essence, 15 are negotiated and ordered by this meeting, the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. The others, apart from one change that ended up in the Senate, were either rejected or, in some way, rejected directly here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. It's mostly about three circuits. It was a referendum law that has not yet been fulfilled, although it lies in the House, although there is a government proposal, there has been repeatedly submitted a proposal from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. There is a law of contact that the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic finally submitted, which is not entirely ideal because it brings about some inequality between the two chambers of the Chamber of Deputies into that balance of the parliamentary system of the Czech Republic. And then, of course, it is a question of the Supreme Audit Office, which, however, was essentially not accepted from the point of view of the discussion of the Constitution of the Czech Republic, and it is a big deficit. So, from this point of view, I think that it is no longer worth returning to this part of the remaining parliamentary term, eight nine months, to this issue, that it would be appropriate to pay attention to what was a strong consensus in the subcommittee on the Constitution and Parliamentary Procedures, that is, at least, only to make certain changes to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, but to see the proposal as an incentive for the forthcoming parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Plíšek will respond with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u16	Thank you for the floor. Have a good night. I'll follow up on my colleagues. Given how the debate is going, it seems that it is not really in the Chamber of Deputies at the end of the parliamentary term of will to create a permanent commission for the Constitution and international treaties. I think that the chairman of the Constitutional Legal Committee, who is also in charge of the subcommittee on the Constitution and Parliamentary Procedures, should convene this subcommittee, collect the proposals that have been tabled here, invite a representative of the professional public to do so and leave these documents for the next parliamentary term, so that the amendment of the Constitution does not really turn into some pre-election populism. After all, I assume that the candidate political parties will present their proposals for amending the Constitution. And, of course, they don't have to meet on the committee, but they can present them completely separately. So I also think that creating this committee in this House of Deputies is completely unnecessary and that the relevant subcommittee of the Constitutional Legal Committee and parliamentary procedures should meet to the maximum. And I'm just adding, of course, it's a shame it didn't get to the next points, but I'm gonna suggest tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-004-289.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It's 7:00. [[Someone's calling the President.]] I'm gonna finish this. There's no need to yell at me. It's 7:00. I do not register any further applications for the general debate. So I will take advantage of the fact that I am ending the general debate. However, I am informed by the club agreement that today's meeting day will end at 7:00 p.m. So even though we are just below the vertex at this point, I am interrupting this point and interrupting today's meeting. We will continue tomorrow, February 1st, 9:00 p.m. under the approved programme, paragraph 208, Civil Aviation Act, third reading. Have a good evening, everyone.
