ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-007-200.u1	200. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Partnership, Relations and Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and New Zealand, on the other, signed in Brussels on 5 October 2016 /The House Document 988/ - First reading Please have Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek present the opening words. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-007-200.u2	Thank you. Good noon, Mr Vice-President, Madame Members. As has already been told, I present to you a partnership agreement between New Zealand and the European Union for discussion. The reason is that relations between the European Union and New Zealand are getting rather intense and the dynamics are growing. I think New Zealand is quite very close to us in terms of views and interests on the international environment. I think we have a good partner in it. It is a smaller market for the European Union, but when we take trade between the Czech Republic and New Zealand, it amounts to CZK 3 billion a year, which is not quite a small sum. To let you know that we have a very good relationship between the Czech Republic and New Zealand, let me remind you that we have approved a working holiday for the young Čech and Novozélanďan Zealanders. Currently there are 1,200 young Čech in New Zealand, i.e. Moravan and Slezan. So just to give you the idea that this is a very interesting country for us and our citizens, and for example, these work holidays are really taking advantage of a large number of young people in the Czech Republic. So these relationships are pretty interesting to us, and they're also developing very decently. At some point, New Zealand has asked the European Union to have an interest in a legally binding relationship, and the European Union has responded precisely by concluding this framework agreement. And that's the one you have here today. This means, if I were to sum it up, he is an important partner in business, he is an important partner in the Asia-Pacific region. For New Zealand, the European Union is important, after China and Australia it is the third most important partner in New Zealand - The European Union as a whole. So I think the reasons to support this are obvious. Let me just remind you, it's a mixed contract. This means that the European Union must negotiate it with the Member States, because the Union has no exclusive competence to negotiate the entire content of the agreement. Some things remain in national competence, and the European Union can only implement the agreement in the area that belongs to it. That's the content of the term mixed contract. Some things are at Member State level, so some things cannot enter into force without our confirmation, of course. I think this agreement is in the interests of the Czech Republic, it is not in dispute with any of our provisions and has no impact on the state budget, so I can highly recommend it to the House.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-007-200.u3	Thank you. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Matěj Fichtner. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-007-200.u4	Thank you for the floor. The Minister has put it quite exhaustively, and I would touch on some of the details in the proposed agreement. I would merely mention some of the areas covered by this agreement: political dialogue, cooperation in foreign policy and security matters, cooperation in the fight against terrorism, acceptance and emphasising the importance of the International Criminal Court's competence, the fight against proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, cooperation in humanitarian aid, cooperation in the economic field including support for investment, the fight against cybercrime, the financing of terrorism and money laundering, cooperation in the field of asylum and migration policy, cooperation in the field of research, innovation and information society. And I would just like to conclude by saying that relations between the European Union and New Zealand should actually be governed by a joint committee, which is the institutional framework that would actually be introduced by this agreement. So I think it's very beneficial. I propose ordering this press to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-007-200.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. At this point, I see no application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I ask whether you want to take the final words - neither the rapporteur nor the minister. Okay. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee, and I ask if anyone else has a proposal for the commandment. I can't see, in which case we will proceed to the vote. I'll read the proposal first. Who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered for discussion in the Foreign Committee. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? Voting with order number 72, registered 119 Members and Members, for proposal 112, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Foreign Committee. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. [[12.40 hours]] I'm opening another point, and that's it.
