ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u1	245. Proposal by Members Věra Kovářová, Jan Farský and others for the law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts (the Road Traffic Act), as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended /house print 807/ - third reading We interrupted the debate on this point on Wednesday, 26 April, while at the same time interrupting the debate at third reading. [[10.10 hours]] At the rapporteur's table, Ms Věra Kovářová and the rapporteur for the guarantee committee took their seats, this is the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Klán. I recall that the amendments are set out in the 807/5 Houses of the Press and the resolution of the guarantee committee has been delivered as the 807/6 House Press. I ask if the appellants' representatives, my colleague, are interested in speaking before the debate continues. She doesn't have a colleague. The rapporteur? He doesn't. We will therefore continue with the suspended debate to which he applied on 26. 4. Mr Petr Bendl. Mr Bendl is reporting for the debate and will continue his speech. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the room!]] Ambassador, I'll give you my word as soon as there's no noise in the room. I ask my colleagues, who are discussing the last point, to bring the discussion of a point other than the one on the agenda into the foyer. I'll wait a little longer. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u2	Thank you, Mr President. My colleagues, colleagues, allow me to continue with what I ate on Wednesday morning, even though in the meantime I was able to interpel the present Minister of Transport Táok on this very matter. I'm so sorry he's not here again today. He wasn't here at the beginning of the third reading of the matter, he's not here now. When I asked him why he wasn't here, he said it was an MP's proposal, and it didn't concern him that much. I therefore think that, as far as the Road Traffic Act and the Road Act are concerned, it simply applies to the Minister of Transport. Rather, I think that he is running away from the argument that actually refutes what his ministry, the Ministry of Transport itself, is saying, in an official way, the same thing as the Ministry of Regional Development, and this is documented by the following two ministries: the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Transport. I say it's in black and white, where officials argue that the existing authorisation system within and outside the so-called built-up territory of the village is a legal mess, an absolute mess. And those who are fighting this amendment essentially want the situation that is in the Czech Republic to remain the same. Yesterday, and I'm just going to repeat it for the record, of course, I also consulted the matter of argument that perhaps it is a sticker, a change to the Act on Traffic on the Roads, to the Roads Act. I would like to remind those of you who are aware of the Chamber of Deputies' negotiations that last week, or at this parliamentary meeting, we approved a genuinely legitimate label here, and no one stood by it. And this is an area that's consistent with each other, the Road Traffic Act is very connected to the Road Act. At the same time, I would like to start by saying that the law itself, whether it passes through my amendment or not, I am prepared to support it because I think it is going in a good direction, but now I am also going to argue about what is actually going on here. My amendment says that the so-called coherently built territory should be from the sign to the sign and within it there should be one authorisation regime. Only for those of you who don't know how it works today. Today we have two systems, when inside the village, and I note that this is a real community in the Czech Republic, and another system of authorisation and not only advertising equipment, I will then say what is allowed under this regime, is true for what is inside the blue and other within the village, which is not inside the blue. [[The MP's pointing at the map.]] What's inside the blue one is allowed by the construction authorities and what's out of it is those light brown parts that are allowed by the administrative and transport authorities. [[Once again, the Member demonstrates his opinion with a map.]] I note that what is permitted by the construction authorities is often said that by means of a changeling I want to squeeze the traffic police out of this decision-making process, in administrative proceedings the construction office usually addresses the Police of the Czech Republic in the vast majority, asking for an opinion, so that the Police of the Czech Republic and the transport administration are not excluded from this decision-making. My changeling actually says these islands disappear because they're now judged by whether there are at least five buildings of the same owners, five properties of the same owners with a number of 75 meters apart and so on and so forth. The interpretation is really, really complicated. I can read it, but we'd spend a lot of time here. My amendment states: one territory under the decision-making of the building office, which usually asks the transport office as well as says, and this is interesting for those of you who think that the proposal may support billboards, that it bans billboards on motorways, both within 250 metres of each side of the postcard and basically, which also escapes attention, actually says that it must disappear billboards in the territories that are so-called behind the sign. This means that you often pass through the village, there are some x objects in front of the village, then there is only a sign, there you reduce the speed from 90, 70 to 50, you pass through the village, again there are signs and again behind the village there are need some objects. At a time when there are no more than five numbers describing them with five owners, so it is decided by the transport administration, it is outside the decision-making community, which often does not agree with it, and I am able to document also in Central Bohemia municipalities that do not want billboards, not that they want them, do not want and do not have a chance to influence it basically, so these billboards would disappear and these basically also at a time when they would not meet the condition that they will not be visible and so on. In order to draw up some more concrete material from the Ministry of Transport, and I am very sorry that the Minister is not here, actually, but I suspected it yesterday, an answer from the Ministry of Transport to a citizen who asks what mode he has his advertising equipment under, I do not know whether he was a citizen or an entrepreneur, I did not examine the regime under which he should actually behave within the community. The second question. I quote the answer from the Ministry of Transport: In the second request you ask whether if you are standing in the middle of Moravian Square, Svoboda Square in Brno, or Karlova Square in Prague, you are located under the Road Act in a built-up or unbuilt area of the village. The Road Act defines only a coherently built territory which is not identical to the definition of the built-up territory under the Construction Act. I'm going to skip the sections so I don't delay you, which is the consequence that different legal opinions appear on the construction of a coherently built territory, which are in conflict with each other, the Ministry of Transport claims. I will skip, at the above square it is rather difficult to determine the centre because it is an irregular area, however, according to the second interpretation the whole area of these three squares can be determined as a coherently built territory, as it is a bordering link within the meaning of § 30 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (b) the road law and, at the same time, the condition under point (a) of this provision is also fulfilled. [[10.20 hours]] This is five or more buildings of different owners with a number descriptive or registration. According to the first interpretation, the territory of the municipality in the part of the square would not be continuously built. So it's chaos. And I say, "Who really likes the chaos?" Who is worth putting Bendl on the headline of an important journal in the Czech Republic that he may support billboards when I am able to prove that this is not the case, that municipalities should have a chance to influence whether billboards will be there, that first, and secondly, my changeling still says a lot about the fact that in many cases even municipalities could not influence the fact that billboards will be somewhere. On the contrary, we would have banned them from the titles I was saying here. I quote only the conclusion of the letter from the Director of the Road Department: When deciding on specific cases, it is not excluded that the competent road administration will assess compliance with the conditions laid down in § 30 para. 3 of the Road Act for these sites otherwise. And we're from the worst inside. Now what's going on? What authorisation procedures in this scheme outside the built-up territory of the municipality are or are not. This does not apply to the advertising already mentioned, which is as if it looks good, but it also applies to the approval of buildings, construction law and landscaping. Well, that's what a construction agency should do. Who else? Police of the Czech Republic on the territory of the village from sign to sign. It also concerns the authorisation of planting trees, it concerns entering foreign land and buildings, it concerns the authorisation of advertising equipment, and it also concerns administrative punishment. There is no reason not to make this clear to one office, so as not to ask the other office in the proceedings and to influence the municipality on whose territory this is taking place. Therefore, by the way, my amendment also has the support of the Union of Towns and Municipalities. And once again, I don't think we can consider Austria, which is essentially the same, or Slovakia as an uncivilized, corrupt, billboarded country, etc. I think that the views of mayors, municipalities and cities are multiplying today, that they don't want the billboards, and if, really, they're just in some undefined place, and they want a chance to influence it. And not that I didn't. Whereas today we have two systems inside that village, and one of them is too, unfortunately, unable to influence the community. And I'm going to make it happen, because that's the only way we're gonna deal with it. One more thing that I consider to be very important is that it is not discussing billboards that were banned by the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 2012 by amending the Road Act. 9. 2017. The Minister of Transport admitted, if it is true, what the interview I read, that at the last minute, that on 30 August they were planning some big event to liquidate billboards that are black in the Czech Republic. They should do it all the time. But there are about two or three officials at the Department of Transport, and it doesn't really work. Moreover, it has a connection, and I must emphasise here again, with the thing that comes out of it like straw out of shoes, that unfortunately it happened that in the early 1990s, at a time when the Czech Republic was legally formed etc., so came out of the ordinary, from our point of view already today, non-standard contracts for the permission of billboards around the Czech Republic or licence billboards around the Czech Republic. These are hundreds of permits obtained by an American company, I am not saying that by fraud, however, already in a situation - or they are allowed in a different regime or they have been given permission absolutely in a different regime than today's legislation, they threatened us with arbitration in 2013 and that they will sue the Czech Republic on this matter. And I think because I feel that we shouldn't resign, and we shouldn't worry about one or two articles that say something in the title, but if you read the inside, there's actually nothing that they can defend that this amendment is about more billboards and it's going to be a mess. It's not true, there's gonna be one regime, not two. It is not true the argument of the Minister of Transport, who said here yesterday that municipalities would move signs. Whoever's heard it, who's experienced it. After all, we all know that as the village signs begin, I reduce speed to 50 and poison 50, and who does not, it will be fined, but that it would happen in the Czech Republic that the mayor or representatives would move the village sign, I have not heard that, and I have been in self-government for quite a long time. I know you've all been media massaged for what a disaster this is. I want to convince you that it is not a disaster, that it simplifies the amendment, makes it transparent, on the contrary it gives municipalities a chance to limit billboards, bans billboards around motorways, and basically destroys them outside the village's intravillain, i.e. behind the sign that's not so-called. built-up territory. Thank you for your attention. I apologize to the proponents of this bill that I have been so long, however, given the media massage that I have embarked on, I have had to say this and I will not withdraw the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u3	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. The rapporteur Jan Klán reports with priority rights. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u4	Thank you for the floor, good morning. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, you see, I have listened to my colleague Bendl with interest, because I will always claim that this amendment is an sticker. It is simply a law on road traffic, and my colleague Bendl is putting in there an amendment concerning the road law. I'd like to make one more remark. Mr. Colleague, why didn't you deal with this when you were in that government in 2013. We're just getting back into some kind of vicious circle here. Moreover, your amendment is unvoting at the moment. Unvoting because it's legislatively wrong. And here I have to load the legislative technical regulation so that it can be voted out at all. So take some advice next time. So, it's gonna be a legislative technical amendment. Point C of Mr Bendl's amendment reads as follows: "Part Three, the following part Four is inserted: "Part IV, Amendment to the Road Act, Article V Law No 13/1997 Coll., on Roadways, as amended by Act No. 102/2000 Coll., Act No. 132/2000 Coll., Act No. 489/2001 Coll., Act No. 256/2002 Coll., Act No. 259/2002 Coll., Act No. 320/2002 Coll., Act No. 358/2003 Coll., Act No. 186/2004 Coll., Act No. 80/2006 Coll., Act No. 186/2006 Coll., Act No. 311/2006 Coll., Act No. 342/2006 Coll., Act No. 97/2009 Coll., Act No. 227/2009 Coll., Act No. 347/2009 Coll., Act No. 152/2001 Coll., Act No. 288/2011 Coll., Act No. 329/2011 Coll., Act No. 341/2011 Coll., Act No. 375/2011 Coll., Act No. 18/2012 Sb., zákona č. 119/2012 Coll., Act No. 196/2012 Coll., Act No. 64/2014 Sb., zákona č. 268/2015 Sb., zákona č. 243/2016 Coll., Act No. 319/2016 Sb. and Act No. 370/2016 Sb., is amended as follows:' The fourth part shall be referred to as Part Five and Article V shall be referred to as Part Five. VI."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u5	Okay, that was legislative technical clarification to make the proposal vote. With a factual remark, my colleague Petr Bendl. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u6	Thank you for the floor. But, through Mr President, I know that, my colleague! We've been discussing this on the committee, and whoever wants it is looking for reasons, virtually. the other way around. Anyone who wants to look for ways who doesn't want to look for reasons. So if these numbers you've read here are the reason why municipalities can't continue to influence what's going on in advertising proceedings, building permits, administrative punishments, etc., so if that's an argument for you, well, it's not an argument for me. That's a few numbers from the laws that move around here absolutely normally. Legally technical changes, I can read you the clouds. So let's either look for a way or a reason. And I think it's smelling the straw out of the boots that the system doesn't want to change here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u7	Okay. Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We continue with Mr Martin Kolovratník's speech, which is entered into the debate at third reading. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u8	Colleagues, colleagues, good morning. I'm gonna try to ease the emotions again and ask for a sensible approach with a cool head. The lines have thinned out for us, so I guess you're here now, who are a little more interested in traffic issues, and maybe at the beginning of my performance, it really deserves an explanation or clarification after that harsh and sharp complaint from the rapporteur, but I do acknowledge that he was right. This proposal, this amendment or parliamentary proposal amends the law which has number 361/2000 Coll. It sometimes confuses colleagues from transport, he is called traffic on roads. Mr Bendl's amendment really concerns another which is only called on roads. It's the so-called, uh, traffic guys call her 13th Mantra, Law No. 13/1997 Coll. So, really, to the rapporteur. He is right, and it is enough to adjust the introductory wording in a legislative manner or to clarify that Mr Bendl is proposing to amend the second law. So many explanations. I would like to add to that the defence and support of Mr Bendl, and I would like to make a positive statement on his argument. Personally, I don't think that's the label, because the sticker was, if we put this proposal to the Health and Social Services Act, but we're here to amend one of two, or three basic traffic laws, those laws are just connected. So in that sense, it's so for me, we're using it as a standard formulation, a change in related or some related laws. This is a related law. And now I'm going to talk about two points. The first point is the support, or my position on the proposal, on the amendment as such and on the amendment. I would like to ask you, or ask you to support the amendment, even if it is from the opposition, either way, no matter what happens to the amendment. And why would I ask you to do that? You probably won't remember it in the legislative crisis that the House has been running for a long time, but we had this bill on the table a year and a half ago, if I remember correctly, it was in autumn 2015, I was rapporteur to him and we are basically there precisely these provisions, or these proposals, which Mrs Kovářová and her colleagues are now bringing, so we had them prepared in that very law. And then it came to pass, I must say, from the executive to us, the Chamber of Deputies, to a somewhat unpleasant, almost shameful matter when I was the rapporteur, it was Wednesday and I was on Tuesday night, Tuesday night! asked to exclude those points from the final vote, from the final procedure, from these very moments, or rather to not vote on them and support them, even if they were discussed at the time, by the guarantee economic committee. And that argument a year and a half ago was the fact that the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry of the Interior could not agree and that they did not have computer systems ready to connect. That was, folks, a year and a half ago, so I think that since then the ministries could be prepared, or they could be prepared, and ministerial officials could work and link their systems so that the proposals that are in this law, i.e. simplifying the issue of driving licences without using photos etc. etc., you know the content so that they can simply enter real life. This means, I am certainly in favour of support or I support this proposal and I will also ask you to vote in favour of it. And now for MP Petr Bendl. He justified it very closely and very precisely, so it would probably be pointless on my part to repeat what he said again. I confess to you that I myself personally was against this amendment at the beginning, and I will be honest, I was also in the shortcut: it is about billboards and we will allow billboards somewhere. But unfortunately, the shortcut is misleading, and it really is different, and I find that maybe it's meant exactly the other way around. Plus the one in the billboard quotes. They were allowed and were granted an exception outside the municipalities, i.e. on motorways, on first-class roads, simply in the so-called. extravilion. The exception ends this fall, and I don't think anyone's discussing it and doesn't want to prolong it. And we know that the placement will end this autumn, and the Republic, the landscape will be cleaned up for us, and there it is, I agree with that, and I would personally reject any extension of such an exception, and I would speak harshly against it. However, this amendment does not address the extravilán, it addresses the intravilán, i.e. the area within the municipalities. And for your idea of how it's defined in 13 today, so maybe I can use the term, the term is really awful. In Section 30, it is said today that a coherently built territory is understood by a territory which fulfils: (a) a condition where five or more buildings of different owners are built on the territory, to which a descriptive or registration number has been assigned and are registered in the Land Register; (b) and now, please listen carefully to the great definition: between individual buildings, whose floor plan will be enlarged for these purposes over a whole circumference of five metres, the link will not be longer than 75 metres; the link forms the corners of the enlarged floor plan of the individual buildings; for arcs, the use of tangent, etc. etc. Now I quote the law as it is written today, so try to imagine - I've never seen it in my life, how an official runs somewhere between five buildings, discovers whether they have the same owner or a different one, and then, through the strip, they produce five meters of tangent between the corners and measure how long the tangents are. In reality, it's just impossible. This is why mistakes and significant problems occur. What I think Petr Bendl is cleverly proposing, I will not repeat it, but I can only briefly quote, simply, saying that a coherently built territory is a place or an area where the start is marked by a road sign indicating the beginning of the territory, until the end of the territory, i.e. the designation of the municipality. I was in real life at the road authorities and the traffic police were asking about the objection of moving the brand. Of course it's not possible. It's not just that somebody's going to go and dig up a brand. In addition to the location where the brand is located, there is an implementing decree, it is approved by the traffic police, it is approved by road traffic experts in the village, so it is really not perhaps a complicated but relatively sophisticated process and it is not possible to move the brand anywhere. And now to the maybe useless media shortcut, what kind of lobbying is it, or what's behind the amendment. In my opinion, almost nothing. I have here a written statement from Mr Tomáš Lerch, the head of the traffic police, who e-mails me that he agrees that the current text is wrong and should be changed. To be correct, in the second part of the e-mail, but also suggests a different version than Petr Bendl. But in principle, he agrees with the need for change. [[10.40 hours]] Similarly, I suspect that it was in a neutral spirit, after all, the Ministry of Regional Development was also expressing itself. There. And briefly, in conclusion, an explanation. It's about that, and you, who are mayor of municipalities or you work in municipalities, think about it this way. It's about whether the municipalities in their territory will have greater jurisdiction. If they can decide for themselves what and where to put it. And please, yes, this concerns, among other things, advertising equipment, i.e. infrastructure objects. But it also applies to field modifications of land, all buildings according to the construction law, planting trees, greenery, protective elements such as noise barriers etc. And it's about the village being able to decide for itself. And the last sentence to the billboards. That may have been the main reason for me to finally decide, at least for me, the favourable position in this amendment is new, and that was not before when Mr Foldyna suggested it clearly that such a device could be at least 250 metres away from the communication. By common sense, you know we drive 50 in the village. Number one, 80 tops. So maybe even the security aspect should be okay in this case. The decision, colleagues and colleagues, is of course up to you. I have said my position, what is important from my point of view. I ask that you express your favour and support this parliamentary proposal, the amendment itself, no matter what happens to the changeling, because it is a simple matter. He's a better man to help people, and as I said at the beginning of my performance, we should have had him at least a year and a half ago. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The rapporteur has come forward with priority rights. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u10	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr Vice-President, colleagues. I understand the arguments. That's on one side. On the other hand, let's see what the bill is all about. He's completely different. It's not about any billboards and some ad space or anything else. This is about facilitating the issue of driving licences. This means that people will be able to apply for the issue of a driving licence in any community with extended scope. To make the agenda easier for them. That's what this is about. And it's all narrowing down because of one billboard amendment. I simply will not support the amendment for this reason. I'll just find any argument. It could have been dealt with for years, years ago. Years ago. Even last term when the Civil Democratic Party was sitting in that government. They could have dealt with that by then. No problem at the time. I mean, they had the ministries, it could've all been solved. And all of a sudden, we're dealing with it again today. I will use your help on my colleague Kolovratník. I understand that you took that amendment out of the law in a hurry at the third reading. But that was your department's fault, somehow, that there was a disagreement between the Department of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior, that the controversy is still there in some way, because the driver's license is issued by someone, and then the agenda falls back on someone. And the connection between the authorities is just... Like I'm weird that in a year and a half, they really couldn't unite in any way. This is supposed to make things easier somehow. And we even fought with the petitioner to speed things up a little bit. She conducted the talks with the representatives of the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of the Interior, so that, as I say in quotation marks, the guys agreed, finally. So at least it's moved on. But, as I am saying, frankly, and I have said it here since this law began to be discussed, if my colleague Bendl's amendment goes through, I simply will not support the law. And I have my arguments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u11	Thank you. The presentation of the rapporteur has expected to raise several factual points. So, as the first point of fact, Mr Michal Kučera. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u12	Thank you for your word. I just want to ask the rapporteur not to tell us here who had something to do during which parliamentary term, when he was in the government, because if we accepted that logic, no one could do anything in the next parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u13	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Petr Benda will speak. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u14	Bendl, Mr President. [[- What did I say?]] Petr Bendl, not Benda, this is Marek. It doesn't matter. [[- Sometimes I mow.]] Well, I'm gonna say this a lot more peacefully. [[With laughter.]] Billboards in extravilions of municipalities and their solutions were adopted by the Chamber of Deputies in 2012. Well, if you want to insist that we didn't do anything about it in the past. In 2012 came a ban on billboards, which from 1. 9. 2017 is valid and is to be dealt with by the Minister of Transport Ťok, who officially admits that this is not a big deal so far, but is planning an event on 31 August, so perhaps something will happen. So it's not true that something in this thing wouldn't happen ad 1. Ad 2. I say again, we're either looking for ways or reasons. It's just on the table right now, and there's an argument. Then why didn't you do it then? I'm not up for it now, because you haven't done it before. But now you can support the proposal so that the municipalities can influence it. Simple. Easily through the numbers you were saying here, like it might be some kind of sticker. Again - I repeat the third time here. I consulted the House's legislation, and they confirmed that it is not possible to accept it as a clean label, because these are very related things, as my previous speakers have said. To ad 1. And even in this meeting, you, my colleague, voted in favour of a clean sticker.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u15	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Jan Farský will now be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would just like to ask you to support the amendment, which I have shortened the legisvacation of this law, which goes against Mr Klánek's amendment, but from my point of view only corrected what has not been quite written in the comprehensive amendment, because legislation has had a big problem with that, so that the effectiveness of the law is defined for 25 months or even 31 months after its publication in the Collection of Laws. And the argument that is fundamental and fundamental, which I have to proceed to shortening the legisvakance is that next year there is going to be an exchange of some 350 thousand driver's licenses. People. In 2019 another 400 thousand. people and even 830 thousand in 2020. People. If you approve and support the shortening of the legisvakance, we will spare and simplify the lives of some half a million people. And I think it's worth one vote, and that they should definitely make it to the Ministry, as my colleague Kolovratník said here that a year and a half are basically considering it, preparing it, and almost should be done. I therefore ask you to support the amendment, which will mean that the law will come into force on 1 July, respectively. 1 January 2018. I'm sure those half a million people will be grateful for that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate or in the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. And I ask the plaintiff if she's interested in a performance, a final word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u18	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. In conclusion, let me sum up the substance of our novel. The point is that if you want to change your driver's license - today you have to bring a photo. Our novel says you won't have to wear any more photos. They'll either take pictures of you at the office or take pictures from another registry. That's the first adjustment. And the second change is this. You will be able to apply for a driving licence in any village with extended scope. For many, this meant two days' leave if they had to go to a community with extended scope in their place of residence. I'm so glad we're coming to the vote. [[10.50 hours]] I would like to ask you to support this amendment, because I think it is moving public administration into the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u19	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. The second rapporteur, Mrs Matušovská. I don't see her, so she's not interested. We will therefore proceed to the vote on the amendments. I am asking the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee to inform us of the voting procedure, then to present individual amendments and to give an opinion before the vote. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u20	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, let me introduce you to the proposal for a guarantee committee procedure, a public administration committee and regional development. At its 53rd meeting as a guarantee committee, the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development recommends 807/4 after second reading The Chamber of Deputies in the third reading on the draft bill, according to the House press, vote 807/4 in the following order. Firstly, vote on possible proposals for legislative technical amendments. Secondly, vote the amendment to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development referred to under paragraph 1. A. Thirdly, vote under the heading. C, Mr Bendl, the continuum of the territory of the municipality. Fourthly, vote on Mr Farský amendment, which is a change of effectiveness, efficiency from 1. 7. 2018. In the event of a vote, the amendment is under the heading. D unvoteable, in the event of a failure to vote, the amendment shall be put to the vote under the heading. D. As the fifth step, the amendment under the heading. D, which is Mr Klán's amendment, which is effectiveness 1. 7. Council Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1. 2020. As a sixth vote, we will vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u21	I agree. I'll have the House vote this procedure. Initiating vote. I said, who's in? Who's against it? Voting 541, registered by 142 Members, for 114, against 1. The procedure was adopted in the form presented by the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u22	The first vote will be the vote on the legislative technical adaptations which were tabled at the third reading. Opinion of the Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u23	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of legislative technical regulations. Who's against it? This is a 542, registered 142 Members, for 124, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u24	The next step will be to vote on the amendment of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development referred to under the heading. A. Opinion of the Committee recommending.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u25	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 543, 143 Members registered, for 127, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u26	Next, we will vote on the amendment under the heading. C, which is Mr Bendl, the continuum of the municipality. Opinion of the Committee not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u27	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Before we begin the vote, I feel that a number of Members are asking for a waiver, which I have just done, and I will ask you to sign up again with your identification cards. The number of votes seems to have stabilized and I am opening the vote on this proposal. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? This is a 544, registered 132 Members, for 16, against 92. This proposal has not been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u28	The next step will be to vote on the amendment under the heading. B, which is Mr Farský, effective on 1 July 2018. Opinion of the Committee recommending it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u29	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote. I said, who's in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? This is vote number 545, registered by 133 Members, for 102, against 1. This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u30	Given that we have adopted the amendment under the heading. B Mr Farský, change of effectiveness 1. 7. 2018, is the amendment under point (b). Mr Klán's D unvoting. So now, according to my records, we have voted on all the amendments and we can move on to the vote on the bill as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u31	Yes. According to my records, too. I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill of Members Věra Kovářová, Jan Farský and others to issue a law amending Act No. 361/2000 Coll., on Road Traffic and Amendments to Certain Acts, as amended, and Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on Administrative Charges, as amended, according to House Press 807, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Road Traffic Act]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Voting number 546, registered by 135 Members, in favour of 131, against 1. This proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you. This is also the end of this point. With priority right, Madame. Please, Madam Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u32	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd just like to make a wish and a request. Given that another law has been passed to delegate an agenda to municipalities without a clear promise of financial coverage of all the funds that municipalities will spend on this new agenda, so that all those who have supported this proposal here will vote for it, so that they will realise this and, within their regional representatives, give the necessary funds to the mayors who will carry out this agenda. Because so far, unfortunately, from my fellow Mayors, I now think STAN, here have only heard suggestions on how to take and give to the rich and the poor, and I simply, colleagues and colleagues from the Mayors, through the Vice-President, have been here in the last parliamentary term, and I remember Mr Gazdík very well, who unfortunately is not here at the moment, who has been cutting off millions of the capital city of Prague, Brno and other major cities in the context of the budget tax determination. So please cut back on your enthusiasm for the validity of this law, because really when you come home to your communities, ask the mayors, mayors with a small "es" how they can financially cover it, unless, of course, the legislative process is completed and we get it back here. By the way, I asked the rapporteur and the appellant here if international driving licences were included. Unfortunately, they're not. [[11.00 hours]] When I asked why, colleagues don't know. Who you want to arrange an international driving licence, so you need to proceed as you currently do. I'm just upset about this rashness of proposals right before the elections, so that we can please someone, in some way, make a gesture towards someone who might remember it in the election. Colleagues and colleagues, we approve nonsense here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-002-245.u33	Thank you, Madam Vice-President. I'm opening another point.
