ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u1	246. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Partnership and Development Cooperation Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, on the one hand, and the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, on the other hand, /German press 1105/ - first reading The submitted proposal will be presented by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, what I am presenting here has been said. We are in the first reading of the proposal by which you are presented with an agreement on cooperation between the European Union and Afghanistan. This agreement is such a first similar comprehensive contractual document between the European Union and Afghanistan. It is, of course, an expression that we intend to engage and support the development of Afghanistan. The agreement contains a traditional range of areas to which it applies, from cooperation in the fields of political, development, economic, commercial, investment, law and security. There is also regional cooperation, so it is quite a classic division. I don't think it's worth dealing with individual heads and chapters, because I think it's pretty standard. The position of the Czech Republic on this agreement is positive from the beginning. This is due to the fact that we are actually involved in stabilizing Afghanistan in the long term. We have quite a large contingent of soldiers there, as you all know, at this moment quite remarkably high compared to other countries. Afghanistan is a relatively large area of interest and we have no reason not to support it. You could say well, but what are the results of our support and our development? Let me be frank, of course, it's not very clear and simple at all. If you ask me what the security situation in Afghanistan is, I simply have to tell you, in fact, that bad, that the stabilisation of this country does not progress simply at all, the government that is there at the moment is really difficult to take steps to improve the situation, the government is not very strong. An agreement that has been made with the Islamist leader Hekmatjár quite recently, so I don't think it's as important as we may have thought for a while. So the internal political situation really isn't jolly. I'd paint it pink for you if I denied it. When you ask what the point of such an agreement is, well, the agreement makes sense in that we are interested, for example, in reducing the number of migrants coming here from Afghanistan to Europe. That means, the concrete point is that if we can calm the conditions down a little bit there, create some economic conditions, there's a chance that people there, especially the young, won't be leaving so much. You all know that among migrants, the number of Afghánec is quite high. I know that in some statistics, as I noticed, it was the second strongest group right after the migrants from Syria. Now, don't take my word for it, but there's a lot of Afghánec. It's a significant segment, one of the strongest ever. So, speaking of migration, Afghanistan can't be lost. That is why, when we offer this form of assistance, we would, of course, like Afghanistan to be willing to participate in helping to cope with or reduce the migration wave. I myself took part in negotiations with President Ghání and the President of the Czech Republic, Miloš Zeman, at the Warsaw Summit, so we attended a meeting there and that is where President Zeman raised the issue of migration as what we would like Afghanistan to take on as our demand when we invest and try to consolidate and stabilise the country. I mean, our diplomacy is active in this. We are trying to help Afghanistan in this and also to take steps to reduce the number of Afghan refugees. The numbers of Afghan refugees outside are huge. I know there are three million of them in Pakistan, there are huge numbers of them in Iran. It's really a huge problem. That is also one reason why we support the agreement with Afghanistan, because if we just let it go, we can imagine that the situation could be even more serious. I told you the truth, so I hope you'll support it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u3	Thank you, Minister. The first reading by Mr Foldyna should now be adopted by the rapporteur. Unfortunately, the Member is apologizing for today's meeting. In that case, we will have to change the newsletter for first reading. As rapporteur for first reading, Mr Zemek is proposed. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal to amend the rapporteur. It's not like that. In that case, I will put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the rapporteur for first reading being Mr Zemek. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote on order number 160, registered is 112 Members of Parliament, for proposal 80, against 1. This proposal has been approved and I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u4	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on the minister. He's given a pretty big reason here. Of course, this agreement is important to establish a dialogue with the Afghan side. First of all, it is a matter of migration, where there must be at least two parties to the agreement. That is why I think it is important for us to accept this agreement, because we cannot handle these issues, as has already been said here, when a relatively large proportion of migrants come from Afghanistan. I recommend that we discuss this agreement in the Foreign Committee, unless otherwise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u5	Foreign committee to discuss, okay. I'm gonna ask you to take your position as rapporteur. I am opening a general debate. I'm registering Mr Kudela's application, but I don't see him anywhere here. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. Mr. Fiedler, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I quickly peeked into the beginning of the treaty in the Houses of the Press 1105, and the very name of cooperation with the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is difficult for me to bite. I don't know how to comment on this, what else to say. Let me make a prickly remark. Significant is that the main opponents - I look to the right - Freedom and Direct Democracy - are Islamists, neither seen nor heard, nor are there any of them here. The minister said in his introductory words that it is not all right, that it has its pitfalls, that the situation is not ideal in Afghanistan, but with a country that officially claims to be Islam, which proclaims the things that it declares, I will not be here to overwhelm the debate, I have a really big and fundamental problem. Is it necessary, Minister, at this point in time, to discuss such an agreement in Afghanistan?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u7	Thank you. I note Mrs Langšádlová's factual remark, and then you will be given the floor with priority rights, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u8	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Minister, I would like to welcome the fact that we can discuss this treaty here today. And even after my experience of looking at the hotspot in southern Italy 14 days ago, it is quite clear that the issue of migration, that this issue cannot be addressed on the European continent, and that it is the treaties, agreements and negotiations with the countries of Africa and Asia, where a large part of migrants come from, and cooperation, but also with security cooperation in these areas, that is the way we can reduce and significantly reduce, and even to a minimum, migration to Europe. I would therefore like to very much appreciate the fact that we are also discussing this Treaty in the context of migration here today, because it is really the agreement, working with the countries neighbouring Europe, that we can significantly reduce migration. And once we're closing our eyes to what's going on on the African continent, what's going on in Asia, I think we're going to be in huge trouble, if for example. life in African and Asian states will not be sustainable. So I would like to support the fact that you are presenting this contract here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u9	Thank you. I'm registering two factual points further. First of all, Mr Fiedler, Mr Chalupa will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u10	This is not very often, but I absolutely agree with Mrs Langšádlová. What she said here was that closing your eyes and that the solution to these problems is in this area, I can only agree without reservation. But I wonder if the partner we're dealing with is the one who's credible who's gonna live up to his obligations. Let us remember, for example. Turkey, which is even a NATO member country, as has been the result of negotiations with Turkey, commitments, keeping promises, all of this. That's where I'm going, if the counterparty, if we know who we're dealing with, if that's true, if it concerns the entire territory, if that solves the problem. That's where I'm headed. I agree without reservation with the words of my colleague Langšádlová, but if the Minister, I am sure he will respond to this. I'll wait with interest to comment on my question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u11	Thank you. Now, Mr Chalupa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u12	Good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to express my support for the proposal of the Minister of Foreign Affairs. I understand Mr. Fiedler too, but I think we're the last ones who can determine what name they choose. I don't think we can. And whether he's credible or not, we'll see about that. From my point of view, this treaty is pragmatically important, useful, even because of what Mrs Langšádlová said here. So I'm, I'm saying again, I'm in. But I will not forget that the fact that we are placed in a situation where we have agreements with Turkey, now we will have agreements with Afghanistan, this is really a matter rather at the level of the European Union, which so far has basically done nothing to address the problem outside the territory of the European Union. We have an impaired security environment here, and the Schengen area is not yet protected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u13	Thank you, too. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u14	Yes, I'll try to respond to the questions. The first one. I would like to point out that, therefore, the name of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is at issue. I warn you, we are not in conflict with Islam. You may have noticed that US President Donald Trump had just visited three major centers of three of the world's greatest religions, visited Riyadh as the residence of Mecca, the pilgrims and the place where the pilgrims of Islam, the Muslims were heading, then visited Israel as the principal seat of Judaist religion and then visited the Vatican. And you may have noticed that, therefore, the American President intended, and this he showed, a message of peace between these three great religions of the world, and so he was very much in agreement, as I noticed, with Pope František in the Vatican. This means that if we are some of the many Christians here, I think this idea of the American President to show that all three religions should live in peace is an idea that we could share with the svatý otec in the Vatican. And I hope we agree on that. So, really, just because a country applies to Islam doesn't mean that we should be offended by it, because we are taking care and we should be careful not to give reasons for being in a fight, that would be absurd, with a religion that maybe has the largest number of followers in the world today, unless I'm wrong. Let us distinguish between Islam and Islamists, because that is why the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan is in the fight against the Taliban and radical Islamists, and it can be said that this republic is being tested by this... The most can not be said because we see what is happening in countries like Iraq and Syria, but it is one country in which people are still dying, and they are dead precisely because there is currently a regime that is unacceptable to the Taliban, because it is precisely the mild version, the secular version, that is why it is such a version of Islam, which is fundamentally different from the militant one, from the one declaring war to other religions and other believers. So I think this is an important factor that Afghanistan, in this form, is a partner to us, because just as we are fighting radical Islam, and that is why we are helping it. And you know this is in the case of the Czech Republic for many years history, which this House has been applying to for several parliamentary periods. So I don't want to go into this whole thing right now, because I also implied that these results may cause doubts about how effective the effort is. But I can't imagine us saying today that there's no point. Because we've been there for a long time, we've been trying to support someone precisely so that radicalism doesn't win there, because that would probably be bad for us, and it could also mean that the number of migrants will increase. You're asking if he's a reliable partner enough. So he's the best we can find there today. Obviously, we would like someone even more reliable, stable government, for example. I'll admit that, I'd also like more stable governments in Afghanistan, because there's no secret that there's enough tension between the various representatives. The government is just more fragile than we wanted, even the deal is complicated. And you can say that this government has no success in failing to diversify the economy so that instead of poppy as a source of opium, something else grows. That's not where the results are. That's what I was referring to. The government is failing to move forward as we wish, but I still think it is the best partner we have there at the moment, and we have a really common enemy with it, and that is Islamism, radical Islam, terrorist Islam. And with him, we are partners in this side, and we are trying to consolidate the country. And if it does, it will be better for us than when the whole thing slides down and we will see again what it once was in Afghanistan, when the Taliban controlled the vast majority of the country except for that one little outpost where the more secular type of government remained. Just then with Mr. Abdulláh, I remember years ago, as Secretary of State, he's there again today. So they've been in something the same partners for years. Those who represent the milder variant, the more secular one, for us in Europe a much closer variant of society, and vice versa, the militant one that, let's say, represents the Taliban in Afghanistan. This fight is taking place in Afghanistan, and that is actually what we are involved in. And it's heavy. And the view, the future, of course - I can't guarantee it'll be successful. [[11.30 hours]] But I am convinced that those of you who will vote in favour of this agreement will not do badly, because on the contrary, I cannot imagine at this point that we would hesitate. Because because we have soldiers there, because we've invested so much in it, I don't think it's today - even for me, who also had doubts about this engagement years ago, so I'm not going to pretend that everything is black and white and simple for me. But today, I think there's no other way for us, and I guarantee you, at this point, he's the most reliable partner we can find in Afghanistan. And as for the Turkey that was mentioned here, I have one more thing to remind you of. Look, because we have an agreement with Turkey concerning migration, for example, the influx of migrants has been halted after the Balkan route, as they call it. And it's obvious that if we couldn't do this, and if the deal didn't exist, we'd be in a completely different situation. So here it sounded like Turkey wasn't following. That's just not really true. Turkey is holding this deal! And they will confirm that - now I have dealt with the Greek Foreign Minister and we have discussed this in detail, and Nikolaos Kotzias has confirmed to me that the Turek - and you know that the Greeks and the Turek are traditionally more tense in history - have a number of peripetia - but Kotzias has acknowledged that the Turek hold their commitments. For the Greeks, it's absolutely crucial. Because you know what an avalanche means to them that could grow very quickly. So I'm telling you from the most appropriate mouth here, that Turkey here is a partner who is correct despite what has been said here. And I think that they are - however it sometimes seems that you would like better partners, so these are actually the best agreements that we are able to make at this point, and they are of great strategic importance to us. I think I've already said it here in this House, so I don't want to repeat it all. But I am still convinced that the partnership with Turkey is of great importance to the European Union, the European countries are military, geopolitical, economic - even if they are talking about migration as well. It would have been completely different if we had not been able to hold and conclude these agreements. So, as you know, I'm leaving today for the NATO summit, where European leaders will meet Donald Trump for the first time. And it is important that the Turkish representative will be part of this meeting, and that is a strategically crucial thing for me, for Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u15	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík, now duly signed up for the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u16	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think we need to train for Islam. Anyway, my views on Islam are pretty familiar. I mean, I don't think there's any moderate and radical Islam. Islam is just one. But there are Muslims who reduce Islam, and therefore they are in line with our values and can coexist with us here. Anyway, let's face it, Islam in many ways is not compatible with our culture, which is based on other foundations. That's just a fact. I'm not talking about terrorism, I'm not talking about Islamism. I'm talking about Islam itself. For example, the possibility of Islam polygamy, you simply will not bring it into line with our values and laws. It's criminal here, it's forbidden, it's not admissible. It's possible in Islam. The fact that many Islamic companies do not apply this is true. But it doesn't mean that Islam forbids it. So that's one thing. The second is, for example, the position of women in society. Yes, there are countries that are Islamic, where Islam is the dominant religion, and women are premieres, ministers. But that's just because the company reduced that rule and didn't apply it. So that's my opinion of Islam as such. The fact that they chose to be their culture in Afghanistan - or historically, in the long term, centuries of culture is Islamic there is simply a fact. We can't control that. And I don't think we should even influence it. The truth is, however, that this area is very unstable, and the instability is spilling into the surrounding regions, including Europe. And we cannot turn a blind eye to the fact that a country that is unstable and based on another culture carries its problems further, including to Europe. And I see this treaty as a tool to eliminate or, if possible, mitigate this tension and not to carry the problems that Afghanistan has further into Europe, and then for far more expensive money, with much more effort and more victims to address directly in Europe. So it's not about what the republic's name is, what religion is mostly there. It's just about us. It's about our protection and the fact that if there's peace, of course there'll be peace with us. That's my point. And as far as Turkey is concerned, of course, Turkey is very unstable. That KDU-ČSL knew for a long time. Because we have been opponents of Turkey's membership of the European Union for fifteen or twenty years, which is far from being said for all politicians and political parties in the Czech Republic. The vast majority of the parties who are represented here either did not have an opinion on this or directly promoted Turkey's membership of the European Union. We have long argued - even though it was quiet in Turkey, everyone went on vacation there and all claimed how stable Turkey was. We said - it is a country that is in a dangerous region, and we did not consider it a good idea to push the European Union's border to the border of Syria 15 years ago, long before the civil war in Syria. And the second thing is the culture. We see the European Union not only as an economic space but also as an area of values. And it's just Turkey, even if it's a state of formal secular, it's built on another culture. That is why we have always said that Turkey is a strategic partner, that we should try to bring it closer to Europe, not to its political integration into the European Union. And I'm glad everyone finally got it. But they didn't understand until the time when what we predicted could happen actually happened. As far as the agreement with Turkey is concerned. Yes, Turkey is unstable. Erdogan very often threatens to tell the deal that he won't do it. But until now, it's being filled and it's working. So I would not criticize the institutions of the European Union and the Union as a whole here that they negotiated an agreement with Turkey because, in my view, it is the best and cheapest option that we have been able to negotiate and which is actually being applied. And we don't see another option yet. Yes, Turkey is an unstable partner. We all saw that. Turkey's leaders, in particular, threaten the European Union after political changes in Turkey. But so far, let's just take it that we don't have any other alternatives, and so far Turkey is full. And in order for us to have the alternatives, we have to work on them. This means that we must try to solve the situation or help solve the situation in countries that are the source of the tension. Turkey is yet and only a transit country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I don't see any more applications for the general debate. I wonder if that's the case. I don't see any more applications. In that case, am I ending the general debate and asking whether the Minister or the rapporteur want to take the final floor? It's not like that. We will now consider the proposal to instruct committees to discuss when the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the proposal to discuss the Foreign Committee. This also solves the proposal that was made in the debate. So I'm asking if anyone else has a motion to command the guarantee committee as other than the foreign committee. [[Minister Zaorálek is reporting for the floor.]] Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u18	I'm sorry. I made a mistake because I wanted to propose a reduction of the legal deadline for committee discussions to 30 days during the debate. But I didn't do it in the debate. So what can we do about it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u19	You didn't do it in the debate. You renounced the final word. In that case, I must ask one of the ministers to open the debate and speak. This would open the debate and this proposal could be loaded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u20	Perhaps I could do the same. In theory, I could also open a debate. I made a speech, and I opened the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u21	By speaking after you did not say the final word, you opened the debate. Yes, that is how it can be done. So the debate is open. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u22	I apologize for my inattentiveness. And now I would like to propose, in the press, a shortening of the legal deadline for discussion in the Chamber of Deputies committee from 60 to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-002-246.u23	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else would like to speak in the debate. Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. Even in this case, I ask whether you want to take the final word - Minister? It's not like that. Nor does the rapporteur want a final word. So we will now consider the commandments of the committees for discussion. Once again, I will read that the Organising Committee has proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee. I wonder if anyone else has a suggestion. I don't see any other proposal, I'll put it to a vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the foreign committee as a guarantee committee. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 161. 123 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 93, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the foreign committee as a guarantee committee. I ask whether there are other proposals for discussion in other committees. I don't see, in which case, we'll be looking at a deadline to shorten the hearing. In the debate, there was a proposal to shorten the time limit for the hearing to 30 days. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour of shortening the 30-day hearing period, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 162. 123 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 64, against 11. I note that this proposal has been approved and that the hearing period has been reduced to 30 days. I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I'll read the apologies. Today, 25.5. and 26. 5. Mr Jan Farský apologizes on a business trip, today from 11.00 to 11.45 for reasons of work Mrs Dobešová apologises and today from 11.00 to 14 for reasons of work Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's the point.
