ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u1	21. Government bill amending Act No. 256/2001 Coll., on burial and amending certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 954/ - second reading On behalf of the Government, Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, will present the proposal. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to be standing before you here at the second reading of the amendment to the Funeral Act. This law is very important to all of us, it does not concern only one interest group or perhaps a certain number of persons, but it concerns us all. The draft amendment to the Funeral Act was approved by the government on 24 October at first reading. In the Chamber of Deputies, he was commanded by two committees, constitutionally, where the debate took place on 26 January 2017, and by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, where the meeting took place on 13 February. Both committees recommended that this act be passed to the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies and recommended that the draft be approved as amended by the amendments. This means, on the basis of the resolutions of both committees. [[16.40 hours]] The amendments to the guarantee committee were mainly related to topics and topics which, of course, were applied by representatives of many associations. For your information, there aren't that many associations. The key is three. They're kind of fighting each other. I learned today that they want to vote one out because they support the Ministry of Regional Development. So I don't really understand. However, I would like to thank those Members who have been really constructively debating all the amendments. The Ministry of Regional Development after this amendment takes effect - and I believe that this amendment will be passed on to the third reading, where I hope it will be approved, subsequently the Senate of the Czech Republic. Of course, the Ministry of Regional Development, as a gesture of this law, will create a methodology for certain new legal institutes and, of course, also given that this is a frequently discussed topic related to ethics, we will create an ethical code of entrepreneurs in burial. I started an inter-ministerial group sometime in January 2015 and at this point this group has somehow very much spread (?) and a little bit of the majority of the actors are united against the Ministry of Regional Development and against this amendment, which we will hear in a moment during a general or detailed debate from many Members who are here in the Chamber. I would also like to respond at this point to some questions that are being sent to me. I'd like to tell you that I'm getting a lot of letters, e-mails, and really, when I'm going somewhere, I'm meeting people who thank me very much for going to this novel, that my colleagues at the Ministry of Regional Development and I went to this novel. I would like to repeat that for 15 years no one has dealt with this topic. I have to say something that's true here. We will all just die one day, and I will really do everything we can to advance to the Senate of the Czech Republic here with common forces such a version of the Government's amendment to the Funeral Act, which will be functional, will not be partly compiled by the interest and lobbyist themes of some groups, which we will hear in a moment and which will address what we need to address. That means, the aim of the novel, I'd like to repeat, they're not really paper coffins. In the Czech Republic, there has been a Czech technical standard since 2014, which was approved before my arrival. However, she is not mandatory. Paper coffins, I mean papundekl, I mean a paper coffin in which you just get packages, yes, these are coffins in which some social funerals are taking place at the moment. These are funerals such as homeless people, which are subsequently paid to the municipality by the Ministry of Regional Development. The Czech technical standard is that paper coffins are allowed, but so-called. Five-layer coffins are solid. Which really is the secondary effect of this amendment that we are obliged to introduce this Czech technical standard. The aim of this amendment is to put in place control of the activities in the field of burial business, and of course this is something that is not quite right with different groups, and at the same time we are introducing sanctions for various offences, which we have been very intensively debating on the Guarantee Committee, where we had several amendments, where some of these amendments were in the manuscript of the gravediggers, another part was in the manuscript of several funeral services, not all, but very partial parts. The committee, where I hope we will hear the committee's resolution in a moment, voted negatively, but they will be presented here shortly, with Mrs Halíková speaking in the same text that was discussed on the committee, here the President of this committee will be presented. I must say, then I ask why we are discussing this on committees. It's kind of a waste of time for all of us, it's a loss and total abuse of taxpayers' money, when the committee talks for a few hours about something that can still be done here by one MP all over again. I believe that novel. I am guaranteeing this amendment a genuine guarantee of the dignity of the treatment of deceased persons after death. And I hope that the Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies will indeed maintain a constructive view on this issue, and, of course, I am ready to respond again in the guarantee committee to all questions. And yes, if I can, I will attend it in person again, which may not be welcome either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u3	Thank you, Madam Secretary, we trust you when you trust her. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Constitutional Legal Committee as a committee to the next. The Committee's resolution was delivered to you as House prints 954/1 and 954/2. And now I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Ladislav Oklešťek, to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and to justify any amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, House Press 954 was sent to Members on 3. 11. 2016. The Organizing Committee recommended the discussion of the bill 15. 11th order 333. The rapporteur designated Ladislav Oklešťek and proposed a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee. I would like to thank the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development and the Constitutional Legal Committee for the recommendation of the draft, as amended by the approved amendments. The approved amendments can be divided into two parts, the first of which concerns deferment of the requirement for certain technical equipment of business in burial by two years. The second part concerns the operation of cemeteries so that the records buried in the ground are simplified. Amendments from three Members were sent to the Guarantee Committee. The result was a proposal from the guarantee committee, which I consider a balanced compromise. The resolution of the Guarantee Committee reads: "The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 52nd meeting after Ing's statement of reasons. Karla Šlechtová, Minister for Regional Development, following the report by Mr Ladislav Oklešťek and following the debate adopted a resolution by which I recommends that the Chambers of Deputies discuss and approve the 954 press as amended by the amendments adopted and the legislative technical amendments; II. empowers the Committee's rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of the resolution; III. Instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Ladislav Okleštěk, rapporteur. Jan Klán, verifier. Milada Halíková, Chairman of the Committee."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I now ask that the rapporteur of the constitutional committee, Mr Lukáš Pleticha, take the floor and also inform us of the discussion of the proposal in his committee and of any possible amendments. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u6	Mr President, honourable members of the Government, colleagues, the Constitutional Committee dealt with this press at its 81st meeting on 26 January. He did not accept any amendments. It recommends that the Chamber of Deputies approve the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate, in which Mr Josef Šenfeld first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u8	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, dear fellow Members, burial is not a popular topic for almost anyone. Yet he must address us all without exception, for he personally touches us all. This unpleasant fundamental question of life requires our attention and a moment of reflection. I would like to refer with my speech to an open letter to Members from funeral service operators, embalming and preserving persons, crematorial operators and public funeral operators. It is signed by Lords Ladislav Kopal, Chairman of the Association of Funeral Industry of the Czech Republic, registered association, Mr Jaroslav Mangl, Chairman of the Association of Funeral Services of the Czech Republic, registered association, and Dr. Petr Rambousek - all gentlemen are members of the European Federation of Funeral Services. Over the course of several years, the Ministry of Regional Development did not communicate with the professional public. In the government, it pushed its idea of an amendment to the House, despite constant warning to the professional public that the amendment has unresolved large not only content, technical, legal, but also moral ethical problems. The discussion was held by the Ministry of Regional Development with the professional public only in January and February of this year, when it appeared that the Minister and her subordinates had found that the amendment would not pass through and would not pass as smoothly through the Chamber of Deputies as envisaged and wanted. Based on its own analysis of the professional public, the proposal of the government amendment can most likely have a damaging impact on the Czech Republic's inhabitants and municipalities and, from their point of view, on the critical infrastructure of the state. In any case, when it is accepted in the form presented, there may also be an increase in funeral prices, although the Ministry claims otherwise. The investments that the amendment would require must include business entities in costs and therefore prices. In this parliamentary term, the professional and ethical public recommends amending the law in force only on offences, defining their factual substance, introducing funeral control, maintaining the control sequence of the competent administrative authorities at the first instance of administrative proceedings and leaving The Ministry of Regional Development only as a second-degree appeal body in relation to regional authorities, not at any price at first instance. The amendment is duly completed together with the Union of Towns and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, expert and ethical public. Submit it in a broad consensus, recommend it to the new House for discussion and acceptance. In view of the facts which I have mentioned and which are mainly mentioned in an open letter to the professional public, I propose to the Chamber of Deputies on a conditional basis in a general debate pursuant to Section 93 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2 to return the draft law to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. If this motion of mine does not pass, I propose that the bill be rejected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, and I note your motion to return the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation and, if necessary, a motion for rejection. With a factual remark, Mr Petr Kořenek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor and two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u10	Thank you, Mr President, I will be very brief. I would like to respond to the appearance of the petitioner, i.e. Madam Secretary. If I understood correctly, it said that committees were useless. So I would just like to say that, in essence, this is not the first time that executive power degenerates legislative power, but committees are specialized bodies of the Chamber of Deputies and committee discussions are nothing that should not be held! I ask a representative of the executive power to read the Constitution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u12	Hello. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I had a rather long speech here at first reading, and I do not think I will change those ideas. I stand by what I said. But - and now it's a big but why I'm here reading second. On the one hand, I welcome the fact that the Minister has taken up this ungrateful role, and it is true that for 15, maybe 16 years no one has dealt with this law, that is true, so it is perfectly okay, but when I took part in the meeting on 7 February at the so-called. round table, or let's say the meetings of everyone involved, that is, who deals with burial, who deals with legislation and who approves the laws, so I found a rather unpleasant thing that this law was not sufficiently discussed at expert level, even though there was no conflict at all in this meeting, everyone behaved very well, in fact, the comments naturally had and everything went as it should have been. I did not like the fact that the comments of cities and municipalities were not taken into the law at all, and these, of course, are genuinely concerned. 'Cause how many funerals we have that are called. State money? I was still checking, and the petitioner did not really take these comments into account. I didn't like that. I do not want to be very aggressive, of course, because I believe that the opposition is also to be constructive, which is what I am trying to do every time we discuss everything in this Chamber, but, of course, I, apart from what Mr Šenfeld said here through the Vice-President, must, of course, agree with him, although I do not like it, because I believe that the law should have been prepared and, above all, discussed better. In the context of a detailed debate, I will, of course, put forward one more thing concerning the basic criminal code, when it comes to defamation of the remains, so I will not do this until I have a detailed debate. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u13	Thank you, Mr Štětin. Another duly logged in is Tomio Okamura. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your opinion of the funeral home. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u14	Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a few critical arguments against the amendment to the Funeral Law, which is based directly on practice. Funeral is a specific field with a number of peculiarities, including a limited and influential number of cases of death. It follows that every bad intervention in this field has serious consequences for both funeral services and in certain matters for citizens, such as the disturbed market. Both the existing law and the amendment contain texts that favour selected funeral services and distort the competitive environment. And I'll be specific. In the amendment to § 4 para. 3 and 4 including footnote 2. 28 bye. writes: "If, after 48 hours of death, a health facility or a social service facility cannot provide for further storage of human remains in its own facility, it will ensure that they are stored with another person. " What's wrong with this? In principle, it is discriminatory for medical and social facilities to impose on the deceased at their selected funeral services, since this - firstly - affects the survivors in their selection of funeral services for the benefit of the funeral service provided by the hospital monopoly. Secondly, the selected funeral service provides a competitive advantage to the otherwise strictly regulated market. It learns how many patients in a given medical facility died every day, the names of these deceased and their addresses. Here's the exclamation point. He also learns which of these deceased people no one is applying to, so he can give the village priority to the implementation of the so-called. social funerals, etc. [[17,00 hours]] Thirdly, this wording of the law brings undue benefit and damage to the companies. Moreover, in the amendment and in the existing law, this is stated by the term in quotation marks, and I quote, "for another person," although in practice it is a chosen funeral service. Another objection. Paragraph 5 states, and I quote: "The costs of transporting human remains or other human remains and acts associated with this, except the transport of human remains to the autopsy, are borne by the person who arranged the burial. " - What's wrong with that? The bill does not make it clear whether the transport of human remains to the autopsy, intended for the medical autopsy, means only the actual ride of the vehicle with the deceased, or it includes the kidnapping of the deceased, for example. On the fifth floor in three workers. Since health insurance companies pay only kilometers for transport to the autopsy, and it is about CZK 30 per kilometre, it follows that this amount cannot cover work e.g. three workers. If, for example, The deceased transports five kilometers to the autopsy, so the insurance company pays 150 crowns. So who pays the actual cost of the funeral service for transporting them to the medical autopsy when the health insurance company doesn't pay them, or so-called. Don't they cover? And according to this novel, doesn't the person who arranged for the burial? The third complaint I have on this bill is in Section 7, which states in paragraph 7. 1: The operator of the funeral service is obliged, and under the letter. (f) that until burial, store human remains or other human remains only in a refrigerating device ensuring a permanent temperature retention of between zero and two degrees Celsius and where the period from the detection of death by a doctor to the burial exceeds one week or requires the condition of human remains or other human remains in a freezing device ensuring a permanent temperature retention of less than minus 10 degrees Celsius. - What's wrong with this proposal? Freezing the body at more than minus 10 degrees Celsius just because the funeral takes place eight days after the death? This way to freeze the body is basically its dishonor, because when you turn the human body into a piece of ice, it makes it impossible to modify the body before the ceremony itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we either release these paragraphs or modify them. For example, they released freezing of people in § 7 or in the case of § 4 para. 3 and 4 released an obligation to deposit the body with another person, but instead put the word "other medical facility" in the design. That is, in principle, that the dead are always in a public facility until the funeral service is chosen, not with a private man. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u15	Thank you, Mr Okamur. I'd definitely let the kids out of the freezer. Mrs Jitka Chalánková and her application for a general debate. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to comment on my amendment under 'No'. 5738, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. In fact, this is a overturning of the House's 707, which was the parliamentary proposal for an amendment to the Funeral Act, which was introduced into the system much earlier than the government's proposal. Since the Government's proposal for the Funeral Act has brought the possibility of overturning this parliamentary bill in an amendment, I am applying to it in this way. This is a rather simple proposal that concerns people who die and have no heirs. In that case, their property passes like the death of a state. A new Paragraph 17a is inserted after Section 17a, which is described precisely in the amendment available to you. And your attention is certainly also worth another part, when after the tenth part a new part of the eleventh part is inserted, which deals with: Management with the property of the Czech Republic when performing the state in legal relations the state and its organizational components always have to proceed in accordance with good morals. However obvious it is and should also flow from the new Civil Code, the practice of auctions of tombstones so far shows that the state does not dispose of its property in accordance with good morals, and it is therefore desirable to introduce this principle directly into the law on the property of the Czech Republic. Why do I even put forward this proposal? This is a situation that arose in some specific cases, e.g. Mrs Cecílie Hamrová died, specifically, but there could certainly be more such people who did not have parents, children or siblings. Then the Secular Franciscan Order took care of the funeral, making sure it was placed in the family grave. But as part of his death, the tomb at the family tomb was acquired by the State and the Office for State Representation in Property Affairs offered it at auction two years after her death. I find that completely unacceptable. It was an impulse and an incentive for me to even deal with this proposal and this amendment to the Funeral Law. So that was the reason. Now, I think that's it. I would still like to refer my amendment to the statement of reasons which is part of the House's 707, where you have a detailed explanation which is identical to that of my amendment, which is inserted into the system under No. 5738. I would also like to point out that when I put this amendment into the system and announced that I would put it into the system at all, I was visited by representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and the State Office for State representation in property matters, with this issue being dealt with by methodology. I believe that, of course, I do not take this official activity lightly, but I believe that if this situation were resolved directly in the law, I consider it a better way, and the methodology is always possible only in the following steps. Thank you for your attention, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u17	Thank you, Mrs Chalánková. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I didn't originally want to get off, but when I heard the Minister, I have to get off. I must say, Madam Secretary, that at the moment you attack the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a guarantee committee, you are digging a grave at least in communication between the Committee and you. And you're not doing well because we're supposed to talk about a material solution to the problem, not that the committee discussion is spending taxpayers' money. If I were an extremist, I would say, cancel the election, no Chamber of Deputies, no Senate, we don't need anyone. All we need is one enlightened being who will know everything for all of us, and it's solved, we'll save the most money. But I hope no one has thought of this, and I beg you, Madam Secretary, to take seriously the debate with the committee across the political spectrum. I don't think we have any bad experiences with each other, but I don't like this presentation extremely much. And that is what I am, you can say, an opposition MP, but if I have information, it also affects Members who represent government MPs as such. The problem with this law is in detail. In my opinion, it is also not possible to say from the principle that when comes so called. a lobbyist organization representing anyone, then it's a priori wrong. The Union of Towns and Towns has approached us, a number of organizations representing the area, not too popular area of burial, do not hide behind those interests, openly address us and suggest some things and it is up to us how we stand up to it. And something a priori to reject is too populist and unwise for me. We're supposed to deal with the details. And in the details, as some of my previous speakers have said, there are good and bad things in this bill. The bad ones, as a result of my deep conviction, will mean the cost of the funeral itself. And who's gonna pay for that? Well, if the state, the community or the county doesn't pay for it, then the individuals involved will pay for it. And according to my information, this amendment is going to mean the expensive, the area of the burial, in individual parts. Somewhere less and more. In this respect, we are to discuss this in detail best on the committee, rather than on plenary. [[17.10 hours]] That there are good things to name them, so it's definitely an area of funerals for unborn children. There I think we owe the people in the Czech Republic very much, we should open this up and allow even unborn children to be buried up to 500 grams. This is an area I personally support. But there are a number of things that I do not like, and I believe that we will adopt a reasonable opinion on them on the committee in some reasonable debate, and not as you have started it, Madam Secretary. Thank you for your attention, and I very much ask that you, Madam Secretary, do not pester the guarantee committee in the way that you did it here, because that would not be good.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Then, Mr Fiedler.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u20	Mr Vice-President, I must also begin by saying that the time spent with the Minister on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development is not a loss of time or a loss of taxpayers' money, as has been said here, even though the Committee voted at its last meeting for a five-minute break to explain to the Minister who is in charge of this committee. So even though the Minister is acting the way he's acting, personally, I don't think it's a waste of time, and I don't mind if he doesn't listen. We understood on that committee that the Secretary of State had dug up the ditch that my previous speaker was talking about, and that it wouldn't get any better. However, as I said, I did not consider that time to be lost, among other things, because we also opened up the question of the Tobit civic association and the Minister answered some questions. Nevertheless, I would like to open this question here and ask some additional question about what I did not come up with during the committee meeting. And I think that is precisely proof that the committee and the next meeting in the House plenary have its meaning. One of my previous speakers, Mr Šenfeld, has already quoted from an open letter to the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, who we have received from the associations that are moving in this area, working. We have also received vital information about the suspicion that part of some of the new paragraphs of this law may be tailored - and I quote: The possibilities of circumventing the law particularly record the Tobit association and its members when drawing funeral fees for burying dead children or fetuses after abortion in the amount of CZK 5 000 per case. Now I'm gonna wait because I'm gonna have a question for the secretary. [[Mr Schwarz is speaking with the Minister.]] The proposal of the amendment allows for the future burial of fruits even under the weight of 500 grams. A valid law allows you to draw funerals only from the weight of 500 grams. We are warned that if we approve a government amendment, this funeral fee can be used in 35,000 cases according to the Czech Republic's 2015 statistical yearbook, which could result in a funeral fee of up to CZK 170 million from the state budget. Maybe there's nothing wrong with that if the Minister seems to have set up his own business with the Tobit Civil Society, which is why I'd like her to shed some light on this. As we are informed in the open letter, the Tobit Association currently has many cooperation agreements with hospitals - and they are listed here in Prague, Jihlava, Uherské Hradiště, Ostrov, etc. It also has two tombs for 50 years in Prague at Vinohrady cemetery or 50 years of the tomb in Liberec etc. One of the main representatives is Mr Kotrlý, who also works at the Ministry of Regional Development, is obviously in some conflict of interest, and as we have been informed on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, he is no longer the Executive Committee, the Executive Director of this organisation, from which he was removed in 2016. But as I learned in this letter, he continues to be a provider of Tobit's residence in his apartment in Prague 1, Broad Street 12, so far. I would be quite pleased, Madam Secretary, if you would like to explain here what the role of Deputy Minister or Section Director is - now I apologize, I don't know exactly what his position is at the Ministry of Regional Development. What role does it play in the processing of the amendment to this law? What's his role in the Tobit Civil Society and what you're going to do about it personally, because here the suspicion of conflict of interest is, I think, very, very serious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u21	Thank you, too. Another duly signed up is Mr Fiedler. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would only respond to the debate that has taken place here. I have heard some suggestions from the previous speakers, specifically from Mr Okamura, who proposes to exclude some of the paragraphs that they should be deleted from this. I looked into the House system and I was a little surprised that there were no amendments in this spirit. I would just like to point out to my colleague that if he is proposing something and wants to eliminate something or change something, it would also be good to make an appropriate amendment, otherwise it is merely idle speech populist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u23	Thank you. Again, I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor at this stage. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very glad that everything has been opened up here, because, of course, the executive power, the executive of the Chamber of Deputies, is completely subordinate to you. I personally am all the more subordinate to you because I am not a Member of this Parliament. However, I think that even the minister who has some of the agendas under him that he is working on shouldn't let him put up with everything. If the Committee on Public Administration, which I respect, and the Members present know that we are always trying to find some compromises, discuss something. And today, at 15 o'clock, 17 amendments will appear in the system, which the committee has discussed, the very same ones, so I ask why it has not been said on the committee that it will be renegotiated, etc. Of course, every Member has the right to do so. So on the guarantee committee, on which I assume, if this law is not rejected, we will discuss the same thing, the Ministry of Regional Development will be prepared, it will be very active, it will, of course, communicate with you as executive power, as well as me, as my deputy, as well as Mr Kotrlý's current official, and we will explain everything you have asked. Maybe I'd just finish by saying a few things I said during the first reading. Gravediggers, embalmer in the Czech Republic, other activities in this field are authorized persons through the certification of the Ministry of Regional Development. Personally, I really have to say, I'm a little shocked that everything's been going down here today. The law didn't just come from the Ministry of Regional Development table. When I got into office, the Funeral Association came to me, handed me a novel: Madam Secretary, put it in the House. Then some other people came to me, whom I will not name, because they are sitting in this hall and I am subordinate to them, they gave me another version of the amendment: Minister, put it in the Chamber of Deputies. Well, I set up a group where we were supposed to talk about it. And we had fun. We've been having fun all year. But, you know, I'd just like to mention that burial is an agenda where I stepped in a wasp's nest, and it's up to you how you're gonna vote. If you succumb to the various things that came to you in a letter that I don't even have here, but be safe, that's fine. But then you explain it to your constituents, for whom you were elected in your precincts, and explain to those people who are probably looking at you here, where you just have a problem with some things - things that concern the manuscript of the gravediggers, the manuscript of some funeral service group. It's your responsibility, of course. As a humble executive, I will inform you of our defense of this law, of course, on the guarantee committee. However, I would very much like - you know, you often call me someone arrogant and so on. I spent enough time on this law with my people to know how it works here, at community level, at regional level, and above all at state level. The state can't do anything. I can't go to check. I can't, I don't have the authority. I only go there to visit. And they're inviting me because they want me to know that they have the maker that maybe bothers with two funeral services in the Czech Republic. They have it. Everyone has it. Most of them have it. [[17.20 hours]] And the cost increase? I'm only gonna say one thing about that. If the costs are increased, the costs will only be increased partially, possibly for the social funerals for which the municipality is responsible. And I gave the opinion that the Ministry of Regional Development was paying these costs. The Union of Towns and Municipalities has never had any conflict with this law, so if the Union of Towns and Municipalities has a problem and suddenly there is a wave in the course of the second reading, so fine, but in that case we could have settled it during inter-ministerial proceedings, because then I also ask why there are inter-ministerials, why don't we say it there before it goes to the government. Thank you for your attention. Nevertheless, I hope that this law will be passed on to second reading. If it doesn't, it's your decision, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u25	Thank you. The rapporteur's final statement. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would just like to say that so far seven people have spoken in the general debate that a motion for rejection and a proposal for a return to committee discussion has been made. I advise that I propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions for seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u27	Thank you. I'm registering a shortcut proposal. When I open up a detailed debate, read this proposal. I am opening a detailed debate in which I am registering several applications. Mrs Zuzana Šánová will be the first to speak, Mr Josef Šenfeld will be prepared. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u28	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to sign up for my amendment, which is listed in the system under number 5891 and concerns the amendment of the administrative body in the proceedings of offences, from the Ministry of Regional Development to the municipalities with extended scope. There is a more detailed explanation for the amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Šenfeld, Mrs Chalánková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I would like to formally sign up for my amendments, which are published in the electronic system under number 5886. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u31	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Chalánková, Mr Pleticha will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u32	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to my amendment, which is in the system under number 5738. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u33	Thank you. Now, Mr Pleticha, Mr Štětina will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u34	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, fellow Members, I therefore subscribe to my amendments which are in the system. Under number 5917, it relates to local jurisdiction in offenses, so that it is from the Ministry of Trade at the Trade Offices. Furthermore, the amendment in the system under number 5825 concerning the transport of the deceased at the ceremonies. Furthermore, the amendment under number 5826 concerning the inclusion of war graves in non-public burial sites, i.e. parts. For details see reasons. Finally, Amendment 5828, which concerns specifying the scope of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u35	Thank you. Now, Mr Štětina, Mrs Halíková will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I would like to sign up to Amendment 5893, which concerns the provisions of Section 359 of the Penal Code on defamation, where the words "defilement of human remains" are inserted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u37	Thank you. Now, then, Mrs Halíková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As the proposal, as has been made here, unfortunately, it has not been discussed at expert level with all those concerned and does not include, in particular, the observations of the Union of Towns and Communities, I have exercised my right, and although some of the amendments have already been discussed at the meeting of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I am presenting them again to the Chamber of Deputies. They're in the system under the numbers 5868 and 5929. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u39	Thank you, too. Now, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u40	I propose an updated shortening of the time limit for committee discussions to seven days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u41	Thank you. I'm registering your proposal. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I'm not registering any applications. In that case, I conclude a detailed debate and ask whether the Minister or the rapporteur wants the final word. It's not like that. We will now vote on the proposals that have been tabled. Mr Šenfeld has made a motion to refer the bill back to the guarantee committee for renegotiation. First, I'm going to check you out and ask you to sign up with your cards again. I will wait for the number of Members and Members to settle. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of returning the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 173, 117 Members and Members registered, for proposal 57, against 46. This proposal was rejected. Looks like there's gonna be a vote-check, so I'm gonna ask you to be patient. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u42	I object. I voted yes, there's no on the high road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u43	Okay, thank you. I'll put you to a vote on your objection. I am opening the vote and I ask who is in favour of objecting to the course of the vote, as raised, to press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 174, 124 Members and Members registered, for proposal 117, against no one. Objection received. We will now repeat the proposal I will put to the vote. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of returning the bill to the guarantee committee for renegotiation, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 175, registered 127 Members, for proposal 61, against 55. This proposal was rejected. It appears that the vote will not be reviewed. In that case, I shall vote on the second proposal. We will vote that the time limit for the hearing be reduced to seven days for the third reading. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour of shortening the deadline, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 176, 127 Members are registered, for proposal 51, against 63. This application was rejected and the time limit for the hearing was not shortened. We voted on all the proposals that fell. I thank you and end the second reading of this proposal. Mr. Faltýnek is claiming priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u44	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Allow me to make a procedural proposal, although it is in a slight conflict with our agreement on the Gremium, but my proposal on the basis of our parliamentary club and social democracy is that we can act today, which means to vote in a procedural manner and act after 19 o'clock only to negotiate the construction law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-28-ps2013-055-05-003-021.u45	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I will vote on this proposal without debate. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 177, registered 128 Members, for proposal 69, against 15. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been approved. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
