ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u1	1. The draft law amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the Conservation of Nature and Landscapes, as amended /German press 739/5/ - rejected by the Senate By resolution, the Senate rejected this proposal, it was delivered as House press 739/6. I welcome Senator Jitka Seitlová among us. Welcome, Senator. I ask that the Minister of the Environment, Mr Richard Brabec, speak first for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and for the rejection of this bill. Please, Minister, you have the floor. The Minister is a gentleman, he wanted to prefer a lady, but unfortunately, you must speak here first under the Rules of Procedure. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u2	Thank you for the floor. I just want to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u3	I'd like to, too, but it's not quiet enough, so I'm gonna ask everyone to transfer their calls to the machine guns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u4	Yes, I would like that, Mr President, perhaps some of this will come true. Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Madame Senator, I would just like to say that we are now talking about this little amendment, so-called Law 114, which concerns the damage, and to the next one, which you are probably much more curious about both here on the left and on my right, so we will get to it in a moment. I would just briefly reiterate that the aim of the bill presented, as submitted by the Government, was to eliminate the lack of systemicity and illogicality of the current legislation, when the State pays state organisations for the restrictions it has set itself. And let's say he's actually pulling money out of one pocket and putting it in the other. If we were able to eliminate the situation as it has been, and this was the direction of the government proposal, this would not only reduce the administrative burden on state organisations that would not have to ask for compensation for injury, those administrative costs were estimated at approximately CZK million per year, and the state authorities entrusted with the administration of these applications, and here again it was only an estimate that these costs were approximately CZK 3.7 million per year, but in general there will be an elimination of the wrong set principle, which would result in institutions managing state land actually demanding up to CZK 350 million per year. I would like to emphasise - because there have been a number of debates in the House, it has finally been convinced, but also in the Senate - that the proposal presented is completely constitutionally conformary and does not interfere in any way with the rights of private individuals who are in charge of state land. I would also like to say that there is no danger of what you may have been warned about before it sounds here, that it could mean that it will be in those protected areas, or where damage can be applied, to put additional and additional areas in such a way that these areas, let's say, spread senselessly, because these damages are paid under the law, as well as the determination of areas in those individual protection zones is also under the law. This is not linked in any way to whether or not, and therefore whether or not a claim for compensation for injury arises under a given restriction, is of no relevance at all. I am glad that this is fully true, those fundamental arguments which I have already said here in the Chamber of Deputies, that this proposal, very small in its diction, goes the way of Slovakia, which has also actually abolished the principle when the state pays itself, because entities such as the Forests of the Czech Republic or the Military Forests, are subjects who already have in their founding charter simply that they should declare and also work in the interest of the state and defend its public interest. And if the public interest is the protection of nature and, in fact, the fact that it is in some way complicated to manage these land, then the State should not, as I say, pay the State for such damage. Again, I stress that the rights of private individuals are not affected by the management of state land. Therefore, allow me to ask you to revote, respectively. Reconfirmation of the parliamentary version, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies, which we approved by a majority of 117 votes on 2 December 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u5	I thank the Minister. They want to speak gradually on the Senate resolution - first the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on the Environment, Mr Robin Böhnisch. Thank you, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u6	Good afternoon, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to make this very brief. I'd like to add the Minister's words, confirm them. It is a matter of historical, burdening state authorities and employees of state enterprises. I think it is time to stop this state incest, when the state pays itself compensation for damage, and I recommend sticking to the House version, thus rejecting the rejection by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u7	Thank you. I also ask the rapporteur of Mr Josef Šenfeld's agricultural committee, who is not present, so he is not interested. I am opening up a debate in which Senator Jitka Seitlová first came forward. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u8	Mr President, honourable representatives of the Government and all honourable Members and honourable Members, I come before you to present to you the reasons which led the Senate to propose the rejection of the Government's proposal for a amendment, which was submitted as House Press No. 739 and Senate Press No. 26. The Chamber of Deputies forwarded this proposal to the Senate on 20 December last year and the Senate included this press at the fourth meeting and discussed it on 19 January this year. By his resolution in the vote, forty-nine, the Senate approved the bill amendment to reject. Of the 50 senators present, 49 were for rejection, one opposed. In particular, the grounds for rejecting the proposal were doubts as to its compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, Article 11 (2) of the Treaty on European Union and Article 11 (2) of the Treaty on European Union. 1 second sentence, and whether the ownership of all owners has the same legal content and protection. The draft submitted at the level of the law undoubtedly introduces a double legal regime for the handling of property, in this case in particular land which is dependent on one of the parties to the contractual relationship. Although the State can undoubtedly lay down rules on the handling of its material or property, these rules should not adversely affect other entities, which unfortunately can happen on the basis of the proposal. The proposal does not guarantee that it will not adversely affect entities different from those of the State which have rented state land with which compensation is still linked. The explanatory memorandum states that private landlords owned by the State will be protected by contractual relations between the Nature and Landscape Agency by the proposed modification of the restrictions, and that the fact that they do not receive any harm, to some extent, shall we say, is already taken into account. However, this is a contractual relationship and the compensated amount in these cases is virtually without the protection of the state and the legislation essentially unwarranted. The draft amendment submitted by the Senate also contains a formal flaw, which means that it happened that the effectiveness of the law was shifted in voting in the Chamber of Deputies at third reading, but this was not translated into the text of the transitional provision. So the law sets a condition that actually occurs before the law becomes effective. It's another problem in this novel. In the Senate's speeches, the opinion was also expressed that the financial compensation as such is a regulatory mechanism, contributing to the reduction of farming on agricultural and forest land within acceptable limits. But, in particular, there were concerns about the fact that compensation for damages should also be provided in the so-called ÚSES, and there may also be a threat to the incomes of municipalities. That is why the Senate has also adopted a resolution in the final outcome, as I have already said, to reject the amendment proposal. The Senate understands the principles that the Minister has lectured here in his opening speech. However, this amendment, as it was processed, failed to remove all uncertainties, doubts and, say, certain possibilities of damage to some owners and equal rights of all property owners would not be protected. In the light of the above, I would like to ask the Chamber of Deputies to reject the bill amendment in accordance with the Senate's decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u9	Thank you, Senator. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Petr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u10	Madam Senator, Prime Minister, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, hello, Mr President too. It's funny that we're sitting in one of the benches, reading one of the lyrics, and interpreting each of them differently. The Minister of the Environment is talking about removing the lack of systemicity with the proposed amendment, and on the contrary, this amendment seems to me that it introduces non-systemicity. The senator spoke of unequal access to owners. I would also like to add that this is an uneven approach to economic operators. Mr Šenfeld could not speak as rapporteur for the agricultural committee, so I would like to replace his role and say that the Agricultural Committee of the Chamber of Deputies has proposed to reject this amendment. I am in favour of the Senate's position, and I also propose to reject this amendment, which means that I suggest that Members not vote for the original version, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Jan Zahradník is the last member of the general debate so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u12	Mr Vice-President, Madam Senator, Minister, fellow Members, we have here the law returned from the Senate, the amendment to Law 114 on the Conservation of Nature and Landscape. I'm just reminding you that this is not the last law with this number, with this designation, which we will be discussing today as returned to the Senate. So the Senate gives us two laws in one time interval concerning conservation of nature and landscape. There is a clear division between the House's view and the Senate's view on this issue. Perhaps it would be worth a little thought about why this law is here, why our proposals here in the House seem unacceptable to the senators. One of the possible explanations, one of the possible interpretations may be that there is some truth to the fact that the senators are far closer to their senate districts, that they are far closer to the municipalities in these senate districts, that they are far closer to the citizens who are burning the problems that we may not know so well from the height of our chamber. This law, perhaps you could say a small amendment to Act No. 114 compared to the second one, which we will discuss at 16 o'clock and which is actually the law on Sumava, so it is not so important, the media do not pay so much attention to it, do not go into our mailboxes hundreds of emails and do not create for it people who might feel affected by it here in Malostranské náměstí. This law passes quietly. [[15.20 hours]] I think there is a lot of truth to what the Senator says and what the rapporteur said, or the representative of the rapporteur on the agricultural committee. This law is simply not right in my opinion. The Minister takes such a shortcut that we are actually correcting a nonsystemic relationship that the State is actually replacing the damage caused by its influence on the management that it is carrying out itself. The rapporteur, Dr Böhnisch, even called it incest, such action. I must disagree sharply with this. I have to remind you of what I've said before. After all, there are state-owned enterprises that, by principle, run on state land, which is owned by the State, and which have the damage to the fact that on this land there is a restriction on the conservation of nature, by various measures, by declaring protected areas, by reservations. And they have this damage, the damage is reflected in their management, and they, like proper farmers, have to somehow count on this damage and should report it. The Minister says that private hicks, landlords, can be dealt with by hiring. But rent is a contractual matter and, of course, it cannot be treated in the law above, nor can it be foreseen in a legislative process. And then one more thing, in my opinion, is equally important. Today, apparently, the majority will be here, you'll approve, you'll overrule the Senate, and you'll pass the law in the form in which it came from the House. And I would just like to remind you that this could be the first step towards further restrictions. Then it will seem pointless for municipalities to be able to claim compensation for the damage caused by nature protection on their property. The town of Kašperské Hory owns 5 000 hectares in the territory of the Šumava National Park, it does not have access to many parts, it cannot manage them and expects the state to compensate for the loss caused by the management of these forests. So far this is happening, but it may well happen that this law will extend and that such compensation may not be possible in the future. And as a very last warning: There's still a brake, a tiny one, banged up, but maybe working, and that's that environmental activists still feel that if they're going to implement their desires somewhere and try to declare a protected area, a reservation on state territory, then somebody's still telling her to pay attention, but we're going to have to, state, pay for it, we're going to have to ask and pay for the damage. Please take this into consideration, too. I will recommend to my colleagues and my fellow Members from the Civil Democratic Party that we support the Senate proposal and, therefore, that we do not take part in the 101 votes needed for the Senate to vote with our votes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u13	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník. The Minister of Agriculture, Marian Jurečka, is now claiming priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u14	Good afternoon, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, guests. I would like to say to this, as we are workingly saying, a small amendment to the law on conservation of nature and landscape, which concerns a change in the way of payment of compensation for damage to forest management, a few facts from the point of view of the Minister of Agriculture as well as the founder of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic. I don't like the proposal the Ministry of the Environment made for a number of reasons. There was unconstitutionality here, and that business operators would not be equal before the law, that some entities could be compensated, some would not. The State-owned company does not have in its founding charter or in the Act on a State-owned enterprise the fact that it is automatically to renounce these compensations, and it would clearly be something that puts it at a disadvantage. The second plane is the approach, let's say, of its own principle. I believe that if the State tells any owner that it limits it in some way when dealing with his property, it tells him how to behave, in this case in the forest, and how to exercise the right of forest management, then the State should also quantify and pay for the damage it is. If there are arguments here that it is one state budget, it is one, let's say figuratively, one pair of pants and we just have different pockets, then let's say that the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic does not have to pay taxes, social, health, because it is actually the same part of the state. At that moment, the municipalities, cities, regions also have their revenues based on the budgetary determination of taxes, i.e. the budget of the Czech Republic, there could also be an argument that in future we could also tell them in the logic of this reasoning that it is unnecessary for us to compensate them for these damages. So please, nicely, here I clearly see the Senate's decision as a correct, rational step, when the senators and senators rejected such a proposal, quite clearly. And please be nice to respect that in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u15	I thank the Minister, who has been the last to be enrolled in the debate so far. I'm asking who else is reporting for the debate. In the event of no one reporting, I am done with the debate. I ask about the final words of the Minister or the rapporteurs. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u16	Thank you. First of all, I would like to ask that we come across this a little bit by Mr Zahradník, but these standards are not really connected at all, and they are more likely to meet only by time in the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. The reasons for this change really were purely economic, they were simplistic, we thought it was a good idea that was long talked about, no one had the courage to come up with it. Of course I knew from the agricultural committee, already in the Chamber of Deputies the agricultural committee refused, I know the opinion of colleagues from KDU-ČSL, I must say that it is consistent, that again I want to be completely correct in this. That means he wasn't even supported by the government. But first, I want to say what the Senator said about certain legal defects, so it was later explained. That means there's no problem that they couldn't claim harm last year or this year. There were some problems with the effect being shifted. It was originally to be at the beginning of the year, later to 1. 6. And because of that, there were some transitional provisions, but it is precisely because of the shift in effectiveness that the transitional provisions will not apply. So there's no danger that the applicants' authorizations couldn't apply for injury this year or next year. And it was said here - unconstitutionality, etc. I would really like to repeat that this is not unconstitutional in any way. The owner has the right to have his own rights restricted if it is with his consent. In this case, it is a state and it is with the consent of the state, so unconstitutionality is out of the question. It was also discussed in the Legislative Council of the Government and with other lawyers. And it's just really about whether we want to keep doing this in my opinion in a completely illogical state where the state is pulling money out of one pocket, putting it in another, and two state organizations used external lawyers to sue in court. Which just seems absurd to me, and we wanted to get rid of this absurdity. Nothing more, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-001-001.u17	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur's lords - there is no interest. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. I'm shutting you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed. Please set the necessary number of votes to 101. It's done. [[15.30 hours]] I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended, according to House Press 739/5'. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of this resolution, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 22, 159 Members and Members registered, for 68, against 38. The bill was not passed. I thank the Minister and the Senator, and I conclude the discussion of this bill. Because the next point - the bill amending Law 114, on the conservation of nature and landscape - is firmly placed at 16 o'clock, we will continue the point
