ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-001-290.u1	290. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations A total of five responses were submitted to the 54th session of the Chamber of Deputies to the interpelations that Members were not satisfied with and therefore asked to be put on the agenda of the Chamber of Deputies. We have one answer left to discuss. I would like to inform all Members that the provisions of § 112 para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies shall read: If the Interpelling Member is not present at the House meeting, there shall be no debate on the answers to his interpellation and the House shall not deliver an opinion on it or discuss it further. And we will now proceed to discuss the answers to the written interpelations. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka responded to the interview by Zdeněk Ondráček on the real development of wages for security forces. Interpelation shall be submitted as printing of 981 and the consultation shall be adjourned. I am opening the debate and I see Mr Ondráček's application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-001-290.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Prime Minister, thank you for taking the time to see me for at least 30 minutes when you announced your departure at 9:30. You can also talk to me from behind if I ask you if you've learned what I said here last week without your presence in my 30-minute speech and familiarization of colleagues with my reservations on this issue. If you weren't familiar with it, I'd have to repeat some things. I don't know. I don't see any reaction from the Prime Minister. So I will sum up only what I mentioned in those ten points, comparing those pay rates that are, and in response to the reply, to another written interpelation from the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec, who responded to the reply - the written interpelation of Mr Grebeníček. It is true that the income of a police officer in the fifth grade, which we have in our country according to statistics from the Police Presidium most, about 9,700 police officers in this grade, that the income of a police officer in the grade with practice up to 15 years of age has increased by CZK 300 gross since 2010. If we perceive inflation, Prime Minister, and we say that seven years later, the salary of a member in this grade, which is the highest of CZK 300, has increased, we will certainly conclude together that the real salary of such a police officer is below the value of 2010, because what he could buy in 2010, he certainly cannot buy in 2016, respectively. 2017. We also talked about the topic of recruitment. And I mentioned in my recruitment that although the government undertook to have enough members and planned to accept 850 new members of the Police of the Czech Republic for this year. If I come out of Police Presidium statistics, in 2016, you managed to increase police numbers by 312 men and women. That means some 500, 530, 540 you haven't been able to recruit people. Why? We could have a broad debate on this and a broad debate on this. One reason is that a cop's starting salary is so low that you too are talking about why they are failing to recruit. And you mentioned this in your reply, in writing, to one of the union leaders when you said - I quote: As the statistics show, the number of police departures this year - meant last year 2016 - is indeed slightly higher compared to 2015, but these data do not deviate from the average of recent years. [[9.10 hours]] Prognosis and qualified estimates indicate that the average of each year leaving members is approximately the same. However, due to current developments in the labour market, the conditions for obtaining new applicants are changing. It should be noted here that labour market offers are so extensive that the selection of new police candidates is not a matter of one or two years, but it is a permanent task, requiring patience, planning and spending considerable resources into a sophisticated approach to the young population, which needs to be offered a perspective, a permanent job and an activity corresponding to financial evaluation. This corresponding financial assessment from my point of view is not the starting salary of between 14 and 16 thousand gross, but the amount substantially higher. I and many of my colleagues can imagine that the starting salary of a police officer without any other parts of his salary, that is, in basic tariffs, should be at least CZK 20,000 gross. We also mentioned 150 hours of service here, what you have in your coalition contract as one of the points where you made a commitment: we will enforce the cancellation of the unpaid 150 hours of police officers. Since the signing of the coalition agreement, it has been quite a long time, more than three years, and you have still failed to enforce this point of the coalition agreement, and no such bill has yet entered the Chamber of Deputies. If we know the legislative process, we know how it can turn out. I know you're discussing this material with the government. I have also read a fundamental comment from the Ministry of Finance, which says that if 150 hours were to be cancelled, there must be an increase in the basic working time fund from the current 37,5 to 40 hours. It's an essential reminder from the Treasury. Here I mentioned the recruitment allowance that you are proposing in the amendment to Act 361, and on other occasions I also mentioned that, for example, the Municipal Police in Prague offers a recruitment allowance of CZK 100,000 plus additional benefits, such as housing, transport, food stamps and a risk premium. Risk premium, separate chapter. The last of the points I have here is a possible requirement to increase the basic tariffs of members of the security forces. You have recently mentioned in the media that the Czech Social Democratic Party will ensure an increase of 10 per cent in basic tariffs for security forces members with a date from 1. 7. 2017. So if you have at least ten minutes to answer my questions, I'll only ask two. First question: There is still a fundamental comment from the Ministry of Finance on the draft law amending Act No. 361/2003 Coll., which requires an increase in basic service from the current 37,5 to 40 hours per week? I'm asking if this crucial comment of the Treasury is still valid and what police officers are expected to expect. Second question: How seriously are we to take your statement of increasing basic tariffs by 10 per cent from 1. 7. 2017? I will ask directly - how this is discussed with the Ministry of Finance, specifically with the Minister of Finance, and whether you have secured funds for the second half of 2017. If, Prime Minister, you can at least answer these two relatively simple questions, I would be very pleased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-001-290.u3	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister is calling for his word. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-001-290.u4	Thank you. Good morning, honourable Members. Before I respond to my reply to the written question, because that is the point that we are discussing today - I have answered in writing to the honourable Member's question, he does not agree with this answer at the moment. I am only sorry, the oral questioning will take place in the afternoon, so I think that we should stick to the written question that has been given and the answers I have provided as Prime Minister to the written question by the Member. Otherwise, I will have to apologize in some time, because this morning the Government Committee on Nuclear Energy is meeting, which will discuss a very important matter concerning the strategic interest of the Czech Republic, and this is the construction of a new block at the Dukovany Nuclear Power Plant, a topic that is very important in terms of future provision of sufficient electricity for our country. The committee is meeting exceptionally today at ministerial level, because the aim is to move the issue of building the block to the next stage. Now, about the interpellation of the honourable Member. First of all, I would like to thank him for being extremely interested in increasing the salaries of police officers here in the Chamber of Deputies, because this is not the first interview on this matter. I believe there will be fewer reasons for Mr Ondráček to interpel me in the future, because we are gradually moving towards improving the situation of police officers. But I do know that the MP is intersecting both the Home Secretary and the Prime Minister at the moment. I think that's a good thing, because there are some things that haven't been solved. I would also very much like us to move forward to improve the situation in recruiting new police officers. That, I think, is one of the key topics today. I'll go back to what's been done, how things have changed over the last three years. However, I agree with the fact that the key issue today is to get new high-quality police officers who will feel the prospect of going to the police not for a recruitment contribution, but to go to the police because they want to connect a large part of their professional life with it, perhaps their entire professional life, and we will raise high-quality police officers who will help to improve the situation in the area of citizens' safety. When we look at the situation on the labour market, when we look at the fact that we have the lowest unemployment in the last few years, even the lowest unemployment within the European Union, when we look at the fact that new members are looking not only for police, but, of course, the military is also very intensively looking for new members, and in addition, we are competing with the private sector where some 140 thousand are being sought. people on job vacancies that exist in our economy, so I think it is quite obvious that we need to improve the recruitment policy that concerns new police officers, event. new firefighters. Firstly, I want to say that the position of the incoming police officer is proven to be the most difficult during the first year. At the time of basic training, this position improves, and after counting the surcharges, the starting salary is approximately 21.5 thousand. up to 24.5 thousand. Crowns. As I have also said in my written reply to the Member's interpellation, the scale of basic tariffs according to which our police officers are rewarded has not changed at all between 2011 and 2013. I didn't want to burden my co-workers with unnecessary burdens and ask them to find out how much there was for the Prime Minister and the Home Secretary. I don't know if there were any such interpelations in the Chamber of Deputies, but there was a reason. I think there was reason to interpel, in 2011 and 2013, the Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister, because the tariffs did not increase at all. They weren't getting any higher. [[9.20 hours]] The first change took place on the basis of our government's orders. So our government was the first to change it, and since 1 November 2014, the basic tariffs have increased by 3.5 percent. A year later, our government renewed its basic tariffs by 4.5 percent, and so far the last increase in basic tariffs took place on 1 November last year by 4 percent. I am very proud that our government has increased the basic tariffs for police officers three times. Of course, not only for police officers, but also for other public sector employees. When we talk about the interior department, it was specifically about police officers, and it was specifically about firemen. So it is clear that the government has been repeatedly trying to regularly increase funds for security forces members in the long run, in the context of the economic possibilities given to us by the state budget. I am convinced that from the point of view of the security of members of the Security Councils, it is more appropriate to increase regularly by a relatively lower amount than to increase by a higher amount. After all, I assume that the basic tariffs of the Police of the Czech Republic and other security forces could be increased this year. The government is aware that wage increases need to be supplemented by specific scaling, which will motivate it to enter the service. These steps should be supported this year by the initialisation of the Service Act, which should be approved by the Government, in which the service for new applicants is attractive, on the one hand, for a possible recruitment allowance, ranging from 30,000 to 150,000, which may be awarded to a member of the College after the end of the probationary period, but not later than one year after the recruitment. The conditions for granting a recruitment allowance shall be laid down by the Director of the Security Council, thereby responding flexibly to acute personnel problems. The second incentive measure is the accelerated service procedure of members who have proven themselves after their recruitment. This will also be used for high school-educated members who will be able to apply for tenders to fill a vacancy, for which the rank of service is set at up to two degrees higher. It will thus be possible to appoint high-quality members more quickly for vacant posts corresponding to their abilities, without waiting for several years before the time required to advance to a higher level of service has passed. For further amendment of the Service Act, in accordance with the coalition contract, the adjustment according to which members had to serve 150 hours of overtime a year without entitlement to leave or reward. In the event that this amendment becomes effective, the proposed date is 1 July 2017, for the time being, all members of the Security Councils will be entitled to remuneration or leave for all overtime services, which should further contribute to the attractive service in the security forces. In addition, there are a number of benefits that a member of the Security Council can benefit from following legal conditions or other circumstances, whether they are special supplements, rewards, entitlement to the provision of uniforms and equipment, pension rights, curative stays or a surcharge for service abroad. So very briefly a description of the plan with which the government of the Czech Republic comes. I think that what is most important is that we manage to anchor the two major legislative changes by the end of the parliamentary term. The first concerns the recruitment allowance, and the second amendment concerns removing the adjustment that concerns the 150 hours of overtime. At this point, as far as the relevant amendment to the law is concerned, according to the information available to me, this proposal is being discussed in the Government Legislative Council and we still have the ambition to discuss it as far as possible in the Government by the end of this month. If the Ministry of the Interior can prepare these matters so that the Government can discuss this by the end of January, then we would then submit this proposal to the Chamber of Deputies, and then it will be up to you, honourable Members, if, in those proposals that lie here in the Chamber of Deputies, there will be sufficient room for this standard to be approved in the Chamber of Deputies. The solution is proposed, it is on its way at the moment, and it will be important that the proposal be approved by the government first, and then approved by the Chamber of Deputies. As Prime Minister, I can clearly say that I support this proposal by the Minister of the Interior and I assume that the Government will approve it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-001-290.u5	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Ondráček is reporting for the debate, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-001-290.u6	Once again, Mr President, thank you. Prime Minister, basically from what I asked you, the questions I wanted were pretty simple, so you told me that's what the oral questioning institute was about. I don't think I'm asking you what I asked you in writing. Time's running out. My interpellation was October 21st. The question was when the government would ensure a significant increase in the salaries of members of the security forces, as it did in the case of teachers, doctors, and others. That is what I asked, and you answered me, and now you quoted it again: I believe that, in terms of the security of members of the security forces, it is more appropriate to raise a relatively lower amount of money on a regular basis than a jump increase of an amount higher. Supplemented in the future, etc. That's what you said to me on November 21st. But already in December you are as Social Democrats, first the Minister of the Interior then said that from 1. 7. 2017 will ensure an increase of 10 percent of the basic tariffs of the security forces. I don't know if the Social Democrats consider 10 percent to be regular lower amounts. If so, I will be very happy for it, because we will certainly see that on 1 July the members will receive 10 %, one relatively lower amount, and then in November another, say, another 5 or 8 percent as the second relatively lower amount. Or whether you consider the 10 percent increase as a jump, but in that case, it's something other than what you answered in writing to my interpelation. And that is why I asked you legitimately with the expiry of one and a half months after your written reply and your other comments to the media, what should I expect from it, what should the security forces expect from it, and perhaps logically I asked you whether you have it covered in agreement with your coalition partner and, of course, whether the Ministry of Finance agrees with it, because we both know how much we can calculate that 10 per cent will be in the state budget worth billions of crowns. Let's say at least 3.5 to 4 billion. But I'm not an economist, I can't count it. So I only asked you in addition what you answered me, and you don't have to refer me to oral interpelation. The first question was whether you believe that the starting salary of a member of the security forces was adequate for the work done and sufficient incentive for new applicants to show interest in this work. You've described to me how honored they are. In other of your comments, and I quote your written reply to the question of one of the trade union leaders working in the police, where you said something specific that I quoted. And I'm gonna get the two questions I asked you that they're totally fine. If we're talking about the amendment to Act 361, you're talking about effectiveness 1. 7. 2017. The last material I've looked at in the government has been efficiency since 1. 1. 2018. But this is not important, because the material you read is still from September or October, where this date was and where it was discussed with trade unions operating inside the Police of the Czech Republic. You present two of the areas that 361 should regulate, namely the recruitment allowance and the possibility of jumping for high school educated police officers. But believe me, it's not essential what the security forces are worried about. [[9.30 hours]] And if you're talking about other benefits, maybe you're entitled to rehab, or... now I can't remember the exact term - that 14 days a member has 15 years to serve. If you look, Prime Minister, into the statistics that come out of the Police Presidium, you will find that 44 percent of the officers who served will leave before they reach the 15 years of service. It should be very alarming for you, and you should be looking into why those police officers in which the state invests in training, education, and others, do not want to serve with the Security Corps and leave at their 30, 35, 40 years tops, when they should be the biggest currency for the Security Corps, because by then they already know all the security regulations, they are sufficiently trained and trained. Yet, without waiting for the benefits and social security that you may be talking about, they prefer to call off the service and leave. So unfortunately, Prime Minister, I must say that you have not responded to me as to whether the Minister of Finance's comments on the increase in basic service times from the current 37.5 to 40 hours a week will be fulfilled. If that were the case, every single police officer serving in a continuous service regime, which is a vast majority of them, will work every year at 52 weeks 130 hours into the basic service period and the state will basically make a profit because not all members had to work 150 hours free of charge. So my questions: whether this is discussed with the Ministry of Finance, that means an increase of 10 percent, or whether it's just some lure or a battering ram - but unfortunately you took hostages in the form of 40,000 police officers and thousands of other security forces in the Fire Rescue Corps, Customs and Prison Service. And the second thing you're going to do is step up your basic service time. If you could answer these simple questions to me, even though you do not want to and refer me to interpelation, then I will have nothing left but to really continue to use the Institute of Interpellation and ask you these questions again and again, because the members of the Security Council as chair of the Sub-Committee for the Police are asking these questions, and I feel obliged to answer them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-001-290.u7	I, too, thank you, Mr Member, and ask if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see an application for a debate. If so, in that case, I am ending the debate. I am now asking Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, as suggested by the House of Deputies' resolution on this answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-001-290.u8	So even though I know how the vote is gonna turn out, I dare say I disagree with the answer, even if the Prime Minister responded to the first part of my interview, partly to the second part. But the developments in those two months have shifted somewhere, and I think we should respond to that and be able to respond at the time of the hearing, because we know that sometimes we have to wait for a number of months to discuss, and events in this country are simply evolving. So I take the liberty of rejecting the Prime Minister's reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-001-290.u9	Thank you. Your motion for a resolution is a disagreeable position. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. Initiating the vote and asking who's in favour of disagreeing, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 191; 95 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 29, against 38. This proposal has not been adopted. Well, thank you. Since no further written interpelations have arrived, I will conclude the discussion of this point. I will read the apologies: The Prime Minister specifies his apology, apologizes from 9:30 to 12:00 today, and from 16:00 for business reasons. Mrs Pěnčíková also apologizes for the whole day for health reasons, and from 13 to 16.30 o'clock for work reasons, Vice-President Radek Vondráček apologizes. On account of the illness, Mrs Markéta Adamová apologizes for the whole day, because of her participation in the International Fair of Tourism in the Regions REGIONTOUR apologizes for the whole day, Minister Karla Šlechtová apologizes until 11.15 hours for personal reasons, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologises for the whole day, Mr Adam Rykala apologises for the whole day, and for personal reasons for the whole day, Mr Vladislav Vilímec apologises. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that at today's meeting we have already firmly included these points. First of all, we should discuss paragraph 282, which is privatization in OKD, for 11 o'clock we have firmly placed paragraph 191, it is the House press 823, and then 201, the House press 966, and for 12 o'clock we have firmly included paragraph 197, the Paris Agreement. Then we would discuss the points from the News block, proposals and others, or we would continue the points from the Treaty block, first and second reading. And I'm opening another point.
