ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u1	6. Budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2018 and the medium-term outlook for 2019 and 2020 /Household printing 8/ - first reading This material will be provided by the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u2	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, the draft budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2018 and the medium-term perspective period, i.e. 2019 and 2020, is presented in the submitted material. The budget and medium-term outlook are drawn up in accordance with the Act on the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure and is based on the financial frameworks established by the Government of the Czech Republic. The budget is prepared as being offset by the involvement of entitlements and does not count on the acceptance of loans for financing transport infrastructure. The budget and medium-term outlook of the State Fund were approved by Government Resolution No. Commission Regulation (EC) No 738 of 23 October 2017 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 738/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down detailed rules for the application of At the same time, the government agreed to conclude contracts for the implementation of transport infrastructure actions contained in the revised budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2017 but whose cumulative needs exceeded the limit of the draft transport infrastructure budget for 2018 and the medium-term outlook for 2019 and 202 until 31 December 2017 up to CZK 2 billion. [[Big noise in the hall.]] In view of the legislatively demanding and lengthy and complexly predictable process of preparing transport buildings, the 2018 budget is designed to allow flexible financing of investment actions to the maximum extent possible following the completion of their preparation, competition and conclusion of contracts for the implementation of individual events. For this reason, global items have been newly established in the budget of state investors of the Road and Motorway Directorate and SŽDC, in which funds are allocated to ensure the gradual financing of newly launched investment actions. If there is a higher need for funding given actions over the course of the year, e.g. by accelerating the preparation of certain actions than the allocation provided for in the SFDI budget and the available resources of the SFDI, I assume that negotiations will be conducted at the Ministry of Finance with a follow-up to the development of the state budget in order to increase the budget of the SFDI to cover these events. The budget of 2018 is based on the Ministry of Finance's indicative figures for a total of CZK 53,8 billion of national resources. With the involvement of funds from the European Union of CZK 18.7 billion, including unused entitlements, the total amount of the budget for 2018 is CZK 72,5 billion. As in previous years, as in previous years, the need to respect the following requirements as far as possible: to mandatorial expenditure, in particular for the repair, maintenance and management of the network; preparation of events according to the government approved document Transport Sector Strategy, Phase 2; to ensure the financing of already-built-up actions, including the financing of ongoing projects; to start newly prepared events, i.e. to ensure sufficient drawdown of OPD funds 2014 to 2020 to meet specific milestones. During 2018, I anticipate the conclusion of further contracts for the implementation of the actions and these concluded contracts will become commitments for future years, which will have to be covered by an increased share of national resources in the order of tens of billions of crowns, because in the horizon of 2019, respectively. 2020 is envisaged to gradually draw up the appropriations of the Operational Programme Transport 2014 to 2020 allocated in the priority axes and specific objectives in question. The similar procedure has proved to be very successful with the OPD 2007-2013, which has exhausted full allocation from the budget of the European Union as the only sectoral operational programmes and has also become the first operational programme of the programming period 2007 to 2013, which has received a proposal from the European Commission for closure. The budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure has been discussed in the Economic Committee which recommends its approval to the Chamber of Deputies. The Committee also adopted a supplementary resolution with a request and recommendation for the Government of the Czech Republic to increase the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure according to the state budget. Thank you for your attention and I request that this material be approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u3	Thank you, Minister. This House press discussed the economic committee, whose resolution was delivered as the House press 8/1. I ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Martin Kolovratník, take the floor and inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u4	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, good evening at this early hour. I will not be here today for the first time as an electoral committee, but as rapporteur for this item - the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. I will follow up on the Minister, I will be very brief, but also on Zbyněk Stanjura, as he announced his opinion and commented on the medium-term outlook. We discussed the draft budget of the SFDI on the Economic Committee on 6 December and there was really great agreement across the political spectrum, all the entities that are also represented in the Economic Committee. The consensus was that the budget is low at the moment, that it is not very sufficient, and we see it as some kind of maximum possible, some kind of minimum really in the medium term. A year ago, there was a much higher amount. And today, as announced by the Minister, national resources count on CZK 53,8 billion, with the involvement of European funds of CZK 18.7 billion, totaling CZK 72.5 billion. The truth is that the budget, which above in this proposal, covers the construction plan, whether road, rail, or water, as it is currently prepared in accordance with the transport sector strategies of the Ministry of Transport. But we indicate a possible problem during 2018, if the competitions for individual buildings were successful, even if they were at a lower price, as it is now real in the market. Indeed, in the middle of 2018, investors may no longer have a view of funds if they commit to constructions that are not for one construction season, but for two or three ahead, and would actually have to stop signing contracts at some point. finishing the tender, which I don't think any of us want. For this reason, the Economic Committee adopted another accompanying resolution on the budget, where the Minister of Transport wants to support the fight in quotes for the higher budget of the SFDI. On the other hand, I rightly say that we did not want to be radical in the sense that we would fight for any changes to the Committee on Budgets. It is therefore only an accompanying resolution, which I will bring to you here in a little while. The main resolution of the Economic Committee shall be No 14 and shall be in the standard version. To the Houses of Press, No. 8 of the budget of the SFDI Economic Committee: firstly, it recommends that the Chambers of Deputies discuss and approve the House Press 8, the Budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2018 and the medium-term outlook for 2019 and 2020, as presented, second, instructs the Chair of the Committee to submit a resolution to the President of the House, and thirdly empowers the Committee's rapporteurs to present this outcome to the House, which I am doing. [[21.00 hours]] I want to introduce you to the accompanying resolution of the Economic Committee of 6 December quickly on the record. He's got a No. 18. I think, except for one vote that has abstained, we have indeed all adopted a resolution. In this resolution, the Economic Committee: firstly, asks the Government of the Czech Republic to renegotiate the needs of the SFDI on the premises of the Economic Committee in the first quarter of 2018; secondly, recommends that the Government of the Czech Republic increase the budget of the Czech Republic by at least 4 billion. CZK from national sources. If you have not followed the debate, the second and third class roads, other transport needs, have been mentioned several times in the amendments. This accompanying resolution of the Economic Committee could also, where appropriate, be directed there. I cannot speak for my fellow Members on the committee right now, but we will certainly remember the accompanying resolution, and both the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance will ask, we will ask them to come to us to deal with the matter, and we will try to find a solution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u5	Thank you. I am initiating a general debate. The first enrollment is President Stanjura. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u6	Thank you for the floor. I will follow up on the rapporteur and ask a not-speaker question. Minister Tok is fighting for higher incomes. Who? Who doesn't meet him? We have to finish this. The Economic Committee across the political spectrum supports this, and I am also in favour. Who's he fighting? Who's the bad guy who's stopping him? If I wanted to be sneaky, you were suffocating in our last TV debate, Minister, that one thing is paper and that you are sure that there will be 76 billion in the budget. Remember? I told you, I don't really believe it, but I wish you luck. You fought, but failed again. I don't know who with-- 76 billion. He's not there. The decline against last year's estimate is 25 percent, and that's a lot. But the key problem was said by the minister in the opening words, if you heard it. In 2019, and that's in a few moments, in 12 months, we'll be discussing the budget, threatening to black out tens of billions. It's not two or four that can be found within a year. We're not ready for this at all. I use the plural on purpose, I mean like the Czech Republic. I do not mean just the Minister of Transport or one political party or one political movement. We're not ready for this. I've been talking about this in the House for at least two and a half years. Everyone always says yes, that's a big problem, but next year, we say that the problem is, but it's very close. I have a specific question for the Minister. Forgive what you said, mandatory repairs, maintenance, that's for sure. How much is already being negotiated from the 2018 budget to date? How many events have gone really out of the past few years and will continue next year? What is the room for new events next year? Now I don't mean the ones that will be by 2019-2020, but for 2018. Unlike my previous speaker, the rapporteur, I do not think that if the budget of the SFDI is increased, he should go for twos and threes. That doesn't solve the state's problem at all. That solves a completely different problem. We didn't support the proposals today to make money for twos and threes, and not by accident, but intentionally. We don't think the state should contribute to twos and threes. I'm curious about the famous reboot. I was at the presentation, there was at least 500 million on those three counties. Mr. Secretary, is there $500 million there? What's the reboot for? Remember, in the Ministry of Industry there was a former Prime Minister, four ministers, all the captains, I see the captain of the Karlovy Vary Region, the captain of the Moravian-Silesian Region, now I don't know if there was anyone from Ústí, there was a deputy chieftain, there was a deputy chief. We all said good to those regions, at least 500 million to those three structurally affected regions. It wasn't that long ago, it was September - and it's December and the money isn't there. How is that possible, Minister? Is that a government resolution? Is that a deal? Why isn't the money there for the three counties? I don't understand it at all. By chance, my colleague is in charge of transportation in the Moravian-Silesian Region, which he was looking forward to. If it's in government material, the government's already approved it -- let's see, nothing. The Minister doesn't like to hear it, I'll tell him again. I am not happy at all, but the political power of the Ministry of Transport is still weak, Minister. If you're fighting with the Treasury Secretary, he's on your side, so your party position is very weak, otherwise it's not possible. You said 76 billion. is sure. You have 72.5 and you say you're satisfied. I understand that you can't possibly say. But tell us who you fought as unsuccessfully as the rapporteur said the Minister was fighting, and he hasn't succeeded yet. It's half a billion. At 1,350 billion. Isn't there a half a billion expenses? I don't know how much the conference cost. But I'm sure it was at least half a million, at least 1% or one hundred percent, one per cent, to be exact. It's useless. There were many of us Members, from the three regions we came to hear what the government had prepared for us. The numbers looked pretty nice on paper, even though I said at the time it was nothing like that against the budgets of three regions. And, hey, there's not even $500 million here. How is that possible? Who stopped you, Minister? Tell us. We will support you in this fight. I think all the Members of the Moravian-Silesian Region will support you regardless of the party shirt. You failed again. That's a terrible shame. Try to turn to the opposition. We will lead the fight with you, and maybe those who prevent you will convince you that it is useful. Now I'm going to return it to the material plane. Really, Minister, how much free money do we have if there's only 72.5 billion?? We've got mandatorial expenses, we've got contracted contracts and constructions from previous years. How many new ones are there for those hundreds of miles of new highways? In order not to tell us again this year with the rapporteur, he is an experienced reporter for this press, I feel that Mr Kolovratník was the rapporteur last year, when he said he would be 95, wait, this year you will approve, but next year it will be nice, and I always say that at the Ministry of Transport, when they publish a list of buildings that will open next year, they will launch, so the report is three years the same and only the date will change there. I took the job and read the last government's programming statement, where the Ministry of Transport belonged to the YES movement, there was a list of communications that you will start. You may have said you would finish, but I was willing to begin. There were, like, seven of them, and you made one. On December 12th, you knocked on D6, the last day of Sobotkův's reign. So you made one, although it didn't snow, but on December 12, on the last day of the four-year mandate, you knocked at least one of those trips from the program statement. So look at your government's 2013 programming statement and then compare it to the plan you have for 2018, and you will find that only the date has changed. So I'm a little worried because it reminds me of a debate last year. Even Martin Kolovratník said: this year let us approve, don't worry, next year it will be 95 billion. And again, we have 72, but we hear: don't worry, during the course of the year we'll put maybe four, that would be the 76. Minister, if you say on the microphone, I will ask you how much expenditure you expect now in December 2017 in 2018 and 2019. I know it's all written in the material. When we look at the shade in a year, it's nice to find the number in the log and compare it to reality. I wish, and I wish, to our citizens too, that this number should be higher than the estimate so that I can come and say: Minister, this time I praise you, it is not minus 25 percent, but maybe plus 5 percent against the planned estimate. Otherwise, the budget is shamefully low. I understand that there is a relatively high proportion of national resources, but after many years of economic growth, say that the budget will be 72.5 billion in 2018.? Compare this to the years of the crisis when we were criticized from the right, from the left, from the top, from the bottom, that we did not invest enough. Compare this with the results of the investment in 2017 and the plan for 2018 in a completely different economic situation of the Czech Republic, in a completely different economic condition. Seventy-six to sum it up, Minister, it's not like you said at Václav Moravec that you were sure, so you fought someone very unsuccessfully. Try to identify him, we'll help you fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u7	Thank you. We are in a general debate. Anyone else reporting? I don't see anyone. Mr. Polanský. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u8	Mr President, Members, allow me only briefly on one area of the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure material that we have received, which concerns supervision or supervision. In our opinion, and not only in our opinion, he and the SFDI material allow this, the supervision of buildings and the project documentation provided by the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure is not adequately secured. Let me just give you an example. The material says that approximately 70 road and rail infrastructure structures are selected for the supervision of the preparation of the events, and the paragraph above it says that four construction engineers are currently carrying out the supervision of the preparation of four construction engineers with sufficient experience in the case of transport infrastructure constructions, which we find really little. At the meeting at the Economic Committee, the Director of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure stated that the lack of opportunity to hire and pay such experts could do so. It even says in the material that if there is a problem with hiring qualified workers, the necessary capacities will be provided externally. So, on the one hand, there's no money to pay the experts in the house, so to speak, but the money to secure the capacity is external. Our proposal is an accompanying resolution on the draft budget, which I will present in a detailed debate, and this recommendation will concern the Government to ensure sufficient personnel capacity for a full inspection of the project documentation and the buildings themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u9	Thank you. Anyone else please report for the debate? Yes. Mr. Adamec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, Minister, I would like my President Stanjura's questions to be answered in the general debate. I'd really like us to discuss these issues. I understand we're here the last day that you're rushing home, but she's not that funny, the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure. Of course, when I read the plans of the Ministry, the government in the field of transport, I see a great effort to build those kilometers of highways and roads, so I would really like to be clear about that. In fact, when we were releasing billions on the roads of second and third classes on a proposal from the Economic Committee in recent years, it was because the money was physically, because it did not run out. But now the situation is a little different. You may not care, but when the European resources are over, we're gonna get in big trouble, because we're gonna have to replace the blackout with national or other sources, and that's what colleague Stanjura said, and that's not gonna be fun at all. So you guys who said, how much we're gonna build, how great it's gonna be, then let's ask how we're gonna pay for it. So I'd like those questions answered. By the way, what the Economic Committee did, I have to say that since I was ill, I couldn't present my opinion on this Economic Committee, but I would already say that let's forget the twos and the threes at this time. It is simply the concern of the regions, the economy is growing, and I would say, in absolute value, the revenue from taxes and the share of taxes for the regions, not only for the regions, but also for the municipalities and the state, of course, so I think that if we don't change the budgetary determination of taxes, let's never talk about it again, let's just let each institution figure out what's in its competence. So I would beg the answers, if that's possible, because I really don't want it to be here that we're going to be asking questions, and then the ministers in the closing statement are going to answer us that we can't respond to that anymore. Thank you, and if the Minister agrees, I'll be glad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u11	Thank you, the Minister will respond. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u12	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly, but on some things I cannot be brief and I have been asked to give a chance to debate. So I won't comment too much on the touching words about weak transport ministers, because that's not true, but I think... It can be laughed at by anyone who wants to, but the facts are quite different. On the other hand, I would like to say to honourable Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, that he was also a Minister of Transport, and he did not stir things up, so I feel that we have little to blame for, but that is another matter. I'd just like to respond to some of the things that have fallen. And very briefly. Reboot, why isn't there 500 million? Well, the $500 million isn't there because it says in the reboot that all the money is valid provided they're covered in the state budget. And unfortunately, they weren't there, so we couldn't put them there, and they weren't even allocated by the Treasury. That's the first thing. The second issue is that European resources will end. Well, of course, it's clear that it's going to end one day, we're about to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, we're going to, Yes, because the UOHS stopped us there, we were unable to continue. But as far as the budget is concerned, of course, there is no question of fighting. Of course I'm fighting for money, but we're a team in that government, and unfortunately, the priorities of the last government were that we were looking for money to raise 15% of teachers and 10% of all other workers that everyone agreed to, so we all picked up on it in some way. On the contrary, from this point of view, I was least involved. However, I would like to say that developments are such that as last year's base of our budget was much lower, a further 6 to 7 billion to the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure have reached the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure, so I think the money is there. And for these specific questions, I would like to say that if you look, today we have a 9.7 billion budget for new events in 2018 at SŽDC 5.1 billion, we still got one billion from the Ministry of Finance, which we will transfer over a year to the State Fund of Transport Infrastructure's budget, so I am convinced that, over the course of the year, we will be able to raise the 72.5 billion on those of me mentioned about 76.5 billion, and I do not think that this will be a major problem. And here today to criticize that the medium-term outlook just doesn't fit the koruna or there's a 25 percent difference, but it just depends on how the state budget develops and how the overall expenditure framework develops. I am convinced that for all the actions we have planned and will be prepared the money will be, will be, will be launched and will be built. I would like to add one more thing to the last performance of my fellow pirát. It's nice to take some programming statements and say what the government's supposed to provide, but I think there's one major problem. We just don't have the opportunity to evaluate and appreciate the way a private company appreciates it, so when I have a handy guy who works for me on SFDI or on ŘSD or SŽDC, who's just really handy, those private companies double over. Twisting our heads that we're supposed to make it happen and that it's our problem -- well, you're right, it's our problem and we're dealing with it, but to say it's supposed to get better from year to year, so don't be mad at me, I'd kind of like to see you deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u13	We have two factual points. I'm gonna read an apology. Mr Pavel Kováčik apologized from 20.15 to the end of the day for health reasons. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u14	I'll advise the Minister for free at 21.19. Next time the ODS proposes the possibility of contractual salaries in public administration, support it. But you didn't support that in the last parliamentary term. Now I'm talking, I'm not saying you personally, but the YES movement came up against our proposal to have contractual salaries, that it's the only way to pay these people, and we just know it. So when you or we come up with a proposal to apply contract salaries in selected professions, we will definitely be in favour. It doesn't matter that it wasn't once. That's the advice. Two. Well, if I had been there, Minister, as long as you have, I'd have moved it a long time ago. Those were not touching words, those were sad words about a politically weak minister. That wasn't touching, that was sad. I know you're saying I didn't make it. I've been there for six months, and you've been there for over three years. That's really a little different. And believe me, I would move it more than you, but it's hard to measure. When we get there again, you'll see how it goes. [[Resurrection and laughter in the YES benches.]] That's pretty obvious. And if it's the new minister, you say the winter government, and he's been here five days, I'm not talking. But I said the minister was there for three years, so he doesn't need a hundred days of defense, like, a hundred seconds. You're actually complaining about yourself. You always said, "My predecessors." Then you could use it in this government. If you had said, "My predecessor has prepared little for me, and he has fought little for it, and so it is not. So contract salaries, that's the solution. Cancel the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure, unnecessary. Have more political weight to get there, more money. These are the kind of advice that normally a politically strong minister of transport would simply enforce. I'm not happy about it. If you think I'm happy about this, I'm not happy about it. We're gonna argue a lot about taxes and social systems and health care, so it doesn't really apply to transport. I wish there was more money. Remember, 76 is certain, Minister, that was in September. And look at the result and then wonder if you're strong or not. Politically, I don't mean physically.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u15	With another factual remark, Mr Polanský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u16	Table salary is not the only way the state or state fund can hire an expert. Wherever you want, the state can make a contract with an expert who can provide a service. I think this is the path that is possible today. In general, I find it very unfortunate that... Like this. Providing this service from external sources will cost much more money. I find it unfortunate that actually the technology here prevents us from using more secure and cheaper options. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u17	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for the general debate? If not, I am ending the general debate. Is there interest in final words? It's not. We will proceed to the debate in detail. Who, please, is reporting for a detailed debate? Yes, Mr. Polanský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u18	Thank you for the floor. I'm just quoting the draft of our accompanying opinion. This would sound like the following: "The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government strengthen, as a matter of priority, staffing the supervision of buildings and project documentation under the SFDI Fund from internal sources, including adequate financial evaluation of these workers.' Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-008-006.u19	Thank you. Anyone else reporting for a detailed debate? If not, I am ending the debate in detail. Is there an interest in the final word with the Minister, the rapporteur? There's no interest in the final word, so we'll vote. First, we will vote on the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which will read: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the budget of the State Fund for Transport Infrastructure for 2018 and the medium-term outlook for 2019 and 2020 as presented'. If we approve this proposal, we can vote on the accompanying resolution. Initiating vote. All in favor, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 130, 190 Members signed in, for 127, against 15. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the accompanying resolution, as Mr Polanský said. First, I'm gonna check you all out. Please log in with your ID cards again. We can now proceed to the vote. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 131, 156 Members signed in, for 72, against 66. The motion was not accepted. I will ask the rapporteur whether we should vote on the accompanying resolution. It wasn't a suggestion, okay. That's how I'm done discussing this point. The next item is
