ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-002-043.u1	43. Government proposal to give prior consent to the proposal for a Council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights for the period 2018 - 2022 /German press 1076-E/ - first reading The Government has submitted a proposal for prior approval of the House pursuant to Section 109i of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies without undue delay, so as to allow its timely consultation. The submitted proposal will be presented by Minister Jan Chvojka. Please, Minister, take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-002-043.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam Members, ladies and gentlemen, may I present to you the proposal for a Council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights for the 2018-2020 period, which is presented to the Chamber of Deputies in accordance with the Rules of Procedure for prior approval. The proposal for a Council decision is intended to set out a substantive framework for the activities of the EU Agency for Fundamental Rights and thus define the topics which the Agency may address during that period in its research and analysis activities. The Agency is a professional body providing advice to EU institutions and Member States on fundamental rights issues, processing expert analyses of specific problems or issuing annual reports on respect for fundamental rights in the EU, thereby increasing the awareness and protection of EU institutions and citizens. In accordance with the Council Regulation governing the functioning of the Agency, a multiannual framework shall be adopted at regular intervals by a Council Decision defining the various topics to be addressed by the Agency. Since this decision is adopted pursuant to Article 352 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Czech Republic's consent to the decision requires the prior consent of both chambers of our Parliament. Therefore, the Government of the Chamber of Deputies is submitting a draft decision for discussion and for obtaining prior approval. The draft decision in Article 2 defines the areas to be addressed by the Agency on the basis of the multiannual framework in the following five years. This is, for example, the protection of victims of crimes, the fight against discrimination, racism and xenophobia, or the protection of personal data, the rights of the child and Roma integration. These areas are mostly traditional in the work of the Agency and the multiannual framework thus follows up on the previous period. The proposal was discussed in this final form by the Committee on European Affairs, which recommends the House to give its prior consent to the proposal for a Council decision. I am also asking you to join me in this recommendation, and I would like you to support them as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-002-043.u3	Thank you, Minister. The President of the Chamber of Deputies ordered by his decision number 65 of 31 March 2017 this proposal to be discussed by the Committee on European Affairs and set a deadline for this until 21 April 2017. The Committee has discussed the proposal and adopted a resolution which has been distributed to you as House Press 1076-E/1. I ask that the President and the rapporteur of the Committee, Mr Ondřej Benešík, take the floor, inform us of the committee's deliberations and also present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-002-043.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. The Committee on European Affairs proposed to give its prior consent to the Council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights for the period 2018-2022 addressed its 63rd meeting on 20 April this year. The Committee after hearing information from Deputy Minister for Human Rights Management Mgr Martina Štěpánková, Mr Ondřej Benešík's report and, following the subsequent debate, adopted resolution 373 which recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to give their so-called prior consent to the draft decision. This resolution was adopted unanimously by the votes of all Members of the Committee present. Let me read the precise resolutions we have adopted. 373. Resolution of the Committee on European Affairs. Committee on European Affairs Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the information of the Deputy Minister for Human Rights Management, Mgr Martina Štěpánková, after hearing Mr Ondřej Benešík's report and after the debate I. recommends that the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its prior consent to the proposal for a Council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights for the 2018-2020 period. II. It empowers the rapporteur to present this resolution to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. I would just like to conclude by saying that we have discussed this proposal very closely and that we have found that this agency, which was established a few years ago, will continue its activities exactly within the framework in which this work was started, so that there is no extension of the powers of this agency. Thus, the committee's decision-making was also relatively simple. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-002-043.u5	I thank you, too, and I ask you to take your seat at the rapporteur's table. I am opening the debate and registering in it one application from President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-002-043.u6	I have a request for all the following speeches by the rapporteurs. I really don't know why we're here reading the papers we all have. After all, we know that the committee always empowers the rapporteur to deliver the result. Plus, it's in writing. We know - and I do not need to hear here that, after the opening words of the petitioner and the rapporteur's report, the committee discussed then and then. I'm sorry, that's pointless information. For me, as a Member who is not a Member, it is sufficient to say that the Committee recommends that the Committee approve or does not recommend the Committee. Of course, we can't stop anyone from having those two minutes of fame here and reading to us that he's empowered. We wouldn't have thought that the rapporteur would appear here without authorization, nor would we have thought - it would have occurred to us that there was some opening word for the translator and then a news report for the rapporteur. We at least resist these formalisms on the Committee on Budgets, and we vote only that we approve or disapprove, and we take note of the rest, because it is clear. We know it has to be there. It's just a request. We have 22 contracts today, if I've done the math right, so it seems to me that we can save quite a lot of money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-002-043.u7	Thank you. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. I don't see an application. In that case, I conclude the debate and ask myself for the final words of the appellant and rapporteur. Do you want the final word, Minister? It's not like that. In that case, I shall vote on the motion for a resolution. I wonder if it is necessary to read it again. No, everyone knows what we're voting on. I'll call in a colleague and a co-worker from the lobby. [[Gong.]] [[11.20 hours]] I am opening the vote and asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution to press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 65, registered 120 Members and Members, for proposal 97, against no one. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved and that the motion for a resolution has been approved. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 14.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Minister Michaela Marksová apologizes. Today, from 11 to 13 o'clock on account of the hearing, Mr Okamura apologizes. Today, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes from 12 o'clock for business reasons, and today from 11 to 13 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Martin Novotný apologises. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
