ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u1	189. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations The first interview is to the Minister of Education, Youth and Sports Stanislav Štech. It is the interpelation of Leo Luzar in the case of Decree 280 on requirements for foodstuffs for which advertising is admissible and which can be offered for sale and sold in schools, school facilities, House printing 1088. This interpelation is interrupted into the presence of the Minister of Education. In that case, we have nothing to vote on, because the Minister of Education is excused. We can therefore move on to the second interpellation and that is the interpellation of Mr Jiří Valenta in the matter of the National Electronic Instrument, House press 1107, which is interrupted. And we can discuss that, Minister Karla Šlechtová is present. So I ask Mr. Jiří Valenta to take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Secretary, I must personally admit that I am not a fan of the long debates, often spinning in circles in which nothing is usually resolved. And so now that I've been forced to use the institute's rejected response to written interpelation, I believe that even in this case, there will be no similar situation and situation. I apologize to everyone, but I have assessed the written observations provided by the Minister as completely inadequate, misleading, arising out of any responsibility and also suspiciously unspecific. But it's already a problem. What exactly is NEN going to be talking about today? For those who would not happen to know, and I do not want to lecture anyone, it is actually a National Electronic Instrument, in short, NEN, which should be a comprehensive electronic tool for administration and public procurement and concessions for all categories of public procurement and all categories of contracting entities, including sector ones. NEN supports all ranges of electronicisation from procurement records to fully electronic procedures, or at least should support them in this way. I will now allow myself to draw up the whole problem by a framework quote from the Public Procurement magazine, which is also the editor of the Department of Law, Public Procurement and MMR concessions, for example. I'll see you around. in one article he writes: "The national electronic tool is a project of MMR. The instrument was specified at the turn of 2009/2010 and completed in March 2014. The aim of the MMR was to offer the contracting authorities a State-paid alternative to commercial instruments.' Until now, in my opinion, everything was still fine. But the article continues: "When contracting entities did not want to use NEN for free, they began to discover at MMR the idea of introducing the obligation to use NEN for all contracting entities. However, the project is stuck with bad luck on its heels, the ÚOHS called the execution of the contracts from which NEN was created illegal." End of quote. This statement raised a wave of doubt for me, and I became more interested in the whole problem. I have addressed the Minister in writing twice in this regard, and I have already described the quality of its responses at the outset. And out of a mere suspicion, the growth of the state began to be neglected before my eyes, and then at least and also an ill-solved problem. And I'm getting closer to the very core of the matter. Under what conditions did this National Electronic Instrument actually come into being? Allow me to illustrate to you my own ten-year-old who is at least worth seriously considering, since the Ministry of Regional Development under the direction of Mrs Šlechtová, in my opinion, has not quite succeeded. 1. NEN probably arose in violation of the law, because it was competed against the law on public procurement. 2. The competitions from which NEN originated are saved by the Police of the Czech Republic. 3. Some suppliers are being investigated, and some have even been charged. 4. The IOHS saved the NEN contract and granted MMR a fine of 500 thousand. CZK and no performance of the contract. The decision is final, I point out. And it has been said to me, for example - and now listen, especially you, Madam Secretary - that the MMR procedure is reaching the most serious level of intensity of the infringement, or that there has been a completely flagrant exclusion of competition. Let me ask you, what measures have been taken, who and how has he ever been punished for this skandrian? [[9.10 hours]] 5. The European Commission is looking into how NIPEZ grants are drawn up, including the National Electronic Instrument, and calls for a refund of more than 41 million. CZK from the subsidy. It was supposed to be a total of up to 240 miles. Crowns. 6. The Supreme Audit Office has found a number of errors. 7. The operation of NEN is not free of charge, as someone might think, and therefore its operation in minimal use can be extremely non-profitable for the state. 8. The NEN operation contract was won by Tesco Software and this project is competing for five years. That's until 2019. After the end of this period, the financing of the project will start to be renegotiated and other costs will start to start to rise again. And it's useless again. NEN owns the Ministry of Regional Development, but only Tesco SW can develop it. And that's pretty weird. 9. From historical experience, we know that the state paid for the operation of the Monit monitoring system through MMR, but all those who wanted, for example, anything outside the standard paid extra money for the modifications and support of these modifications. There is therefore concern that this analogy will take place now, but this is directly contrary to the primary intention of the MMR to have this instrument completely free of charge. 10. According to my information, NEN was not able to obtain certification of electronic tools until February of this year, so four months was its operation without certification. The law does not explicitly require this, as the Minister would have said to me, but not only do I see it as absolutely necessary for a national instrument of such significance. And I'm going to make some other arguments against NEN. The whole project is overpriced and in this quality for the entering public is useless. Its continuation only prolongs agony and increases other costs. Unfortunately, the state does not have flexibility or legislative freedom in today's conditions to successfully implement a software project. The role of the state today - and I will say this now as a communist - lies rather in the definition of the environment through legislation, not in this environment to compete with commercial entities. In my opinion, therefore, it is necessary to think about stopping the NEN project or its new and completely unique concept. And what pitfalls await the state if it decides to continue testing this in the future - and now I am quite mercifully adding a blind path so far? Public procurement could be contrary to the law, often at the edge of criminal liability. This is a desperately outdated and limited-function product delivered with a few years' delay. There are already mentioned considerations of the MMR on the introduction of an obligation to make use of the botched work already and again. Many are afraid of infinitely rising costs. NEN users are dissatisfied and cheated feels a large part of the business public. Unfortunately, we are facing endless and exhausting fights to keep the project going. For your further information, colleagues, Minister of Regional Development Karla Šlechtová submitted to the Government at a meeting on 12 September a document entitled Evaluation of the first year of sharp operation of the National Electronic Public Procurement Instrument, in NEN. And according to the comments of the MMR, the first year of NEN was successful. The report refers to 1,600 users who have assigned roles to 299 contracting entities and 390 suppliers. Total is active 66 profiles of the contracting authority. However, as it is possible that only 390 registered suppliers are awarded 533 contracts, it is very difficult to answer. The problem of such a low number of suppliers will undoubtedly be a major problem for the MMR, which seeks to convince the contracting authority that NEN will take over the role or should take over the role of an electronic marketplace in July 2017. However, more than 25,000 contracting entities, suppliers, are registered in current electronic marketplaces. How transparent NEN competitions take place when there are more competitions than registered suppliers is also an interesting question, not just for statistics. Furthermore, I remind you that more than 16 100 contracting entities are currently registered in the Public Procurement Bulletin, which means that the National Electronic Instrument - and now listen - is serving only 0.4 percent of the market, which is a trivially low number, as you will certainly recognize. In the chapter of this report, which I am now talking about, the evaluation of the NEN operator's work, the Ministry of Regional Development also informs that the operation of its two electronic marketplaces costs 43,3 million per year. The crown, which is based on the gigantic 100 thousand. CZK per order, and this does not even include other costs of promoting NEN, which means promotion or training of employees etc. Isn't that just a little too much money? Uneconomical treatment of state funds, then? I'm sure it is. The current risks to the operation of NEN - this is another chapter of this report presented by the Minister. This is an unobtrusive look, but very interesting chapter. It tells us that it will require a considerable amount of money to be spent on the operation of NEN in order to solve the technical support for components used in the NEN information system. It can be assumed that the original technology was purchased five years ago, i.e. in 2012, and will now end its warranty and lifetime. The technology originally cost 20 miles. The koruna and it is reasonable to assume that it will be similarly costly to restore it. I would also like to inform the Minister - but she certainly knows - that an action was brought at the Ministry of Regional Development at the beginning of May in connection with the NEN, which calls for a ban on non-compete negotiations. Since the Ministry of Regional Development is not prepared for any dialogue on the status of private entities in the field of public procurement, QCM has brought an action against the Municipal Court in Prague to delay non-compete negotiations and to eliminate a faulty situation. The action is based on the fact that the Ministry of Regional Development also acts as a regulator and competitor on the same market. By acting as a regulator, it favours its position as a competitor at the expense of other competitors, which can be demonstrated, for example, in the purpose of accessing the Public Procurement Bulletin or in setting conditions for electronic instruments. The action also supports its claims that the competitor offers on the market an instrument which arose contrary to the laws of the Czech Republic, i.e. it is legally defective. Subsequently, the instrument was completed and certified in violation of the ban on the performance of the contract. I'd like an answer to that, too. The NEN offer is supported by misleading advertising regarding the functionality of the tool or the obligation to use it. The žalobce also sees in the MMR proceedings facts fulfilling the definition of non-competitive conduct, i.e. a contradiction with the good manners of competition, as well as actions capable of causing injury to other competitors or customers. So much for information only, the lawsuit. But there is not only opposition from the public but also opposition from some ministries. Now, please raise your attention, ladies and gentlemen. From the eighth meeting of the Interministerial Management Group for the implementation of the public procurement strategy for the period 2016 to 2020, which took place on 4 May of this year, for example, the representative of the Ministry of the Environment said that MMR had not yet been able to create conditions for the transition to NEN and its seamless use in terms of technical and legal aspects. How's that, Madam Secretary? Representatives of the ministries pointed out at this meeting that the problems with NEN escalate to the management of their departments, and did not exclude further addresses of the Minister for Regional Development to address the problems with NEN. The Ministry of Agriculture requires the presence of a representative of the management of the MMR at the next meeting of the steering group, considering that if this is not the case, they will consider further participation in the management group meeting, which thus appears unnecessary. In this respect, Madam Secretary, I appeal to you to ensure that the MMR's participation in the future is secure, since you probably do not consider this issue necessary anymore, but rather secondary. The Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka even writes to you as his coalition colleague - and now allow me to quote: Let me express by this letter my considerable concern about the state of preparations for compulsory public procurement through NEN and the communication of the Ministry you managed in this matter. The Ministry of Agriculture and its Resort Organizations are still waiting to be awarded through NEN, as the removal of the major shortcomings of this system, which have been applied by our representatives in working groups, is constantly being postponed. I therefore consider the use of NEN as an existing state to be inconvenient, expensive and risky. [[9.20 hours]] What do you say, Madam Secretary? I'm not saying it here, but so does your colleague in the government. At the end of this first speech, please accept some of my recommendations, which, of course, you do not have to - and I personally fear that you will not - respect even if the current dysfunctional state in relation to NEN directly urges you to do so. So set aside the weight of your function to postpone the authorisation of mandatory use of NEN for 2018. It would also be appropriate in this context to extend your Ministry's contracts with electronic market operators until at least 30. 6. 2018. Not only is it possible, but if it doesn't happen and the current concessionaires will send complaints to Brussels, it will return. So the question is: Is it appropriate to risk these refunds and the functional system replacing NEN, which works when I say this very simply, with only reservations? And I would also like to point out to you, Madam Secretary, that the same aspect has appeared even in your report to the government, where you stated that if the MMR terminates the operation of electronic marketplaces before May 2019, there is a risk of returning the subsidy. You see, you yourself have come across this problem of your time. So please be very careful that this problem does not need to be reopened and further addressed. Please also consider the counter-productivity of some of your media comments, which are also sometimes false (?) when I say it in a very subtle way, to a very limited extent and extent. Similarly, please proceed with the submission of reports to the government. Let me give you a few examples. Press conference on 22 November last year, Minister: "The Ministry of Regional Development announced a public contract on the basis of an expert opinion. However, this is the subject of the complaint of competing companies which have their own commercial instruments.' End of quote. And what's the reality? The document referred to by the Minister is not an expert opinion and was completed after the contract was announced. Commercial companies can't be from the logic of the matter either by any competition of MMR. Not knowing the law or the legal environment? Another statement from the Minister. The UOHS had his own assessment done, which says otherwise. So I believe that experts will fight each other. And my comment: Madam Secretary probably didn't have time to study the ÚOHS finding in detail. The mentioned expert opinion is only one of many evidence materials and also dealt mainly with the quality of the procurement documents. This means that there will be no war of experts at all in this case. Another example from Partie: NEN is functional. And the reality? NEN isn't functional. It doesn't, or at that time, haven't yet had a certificate of conformity for a new law to prove that it complies with its requirements. Moreover, its current regulation was most likely implemented in violation of the law, but I have stressed this several times in this report. Another statement: NEN we must have. Reality: we don't have to have NEN. Our legislation and the European Commission do not require it. NEN is merely an MMR invention and may have been useful around 2010 when it was formed. But now it's very difficult to keep this project alive, and it's just becoming an effective means for someone to draw hundreds of millions out of the state budget. It doesn't even work yet, and it's gonna have to buy new software. For example, the acquisition of Oracle licences, which came into the solution due to the change in the way of the solution, will certainly cost more than 100 million crowns. And you, taxpayer, pay for nothing and pay for it. And one more statement: it has to be entered in it. And what's the reality? According to the decision of the UOHS, paragraph 380, NEN is an entirely minority platform for public procurement. For information, for example, from 1. 10. until 29 November last year, no new open procurement procedures were launched by the contracting authorities on this instrument. Why is it used by less than 100 contracting entities almost two years after the completion of the instrument and spending hundreds of millions of crowns and the share of public procurement is below half a percent? It's a really rusty state. And this way I could continue to comment on some of your media statements even further. But that's enough to illustrate, and I'll continue my recommendations. In fact, it is already one which generalizes virtually everything that I have mentioned here. Please see to it that all other IT projects are prepared much better so that the uneconomical spending of funds found at NEN or MS2014+ is not repeated. And at the very end of this first speech, I will officially request a written detailed analysis of the technical feasibility of the legal and economic impacts and the effects of any risks associated with the change or maintenance of the current state of electronicisation of public contracts carried out by your Ministry. And in this case and in this respect, I ask for an order higher quality of processing than in previous responses to my written interpelation. Madam Secretary, thank you for your participation today, third time, but we managed to meet after all. Thank you for your following answers and, naturally, for speeding up the correction of an unflattering, unhappy state in connection with NEN. And to all of you, colleagues and colleagues, for patience and perhaps some for attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u3	I thank Mr Jiří Valent. And now, of course, Minister Karla Šlechtová is the first to perform, and I have another application here. Before the secretary approaches the counter, I'll read the apologies. Vice-President of the Government of Bělobrádek apologizes from 11 to 14 o'clock, Mr Karel Černý from Thursday and Friday's meeting and colleague Matušovská for a whole day for personal reasons. Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u4	Mr President, Madam Chamber of Deputies, honourable Member through Mr President, I am also glad that we can finally see each other on this matter. However, you obviously didn't respect any of my apologies, yet you wrote a letter to the Prime Minister, where you attacked me for many reasons. However, you did not comment on this, so I will also not respond to this in the way you speak of me in the letter to the Prime Minister. Perhaps your public looking at you should also know how you talk about the minister of this government, regardless of the fact that this concerns the issue of NEN. Dear Member, you have expressed your dissatisfaction with my responses as the statutory body of the Ministry of Regional Development on the one hand, the NIPEZ and the National Electronic Instrument. We answered all your interpelations properly. In both cases, or in three cases, I was excused. In one case, there was an administrative error, as you were familiar with it. But I would perhaps go because you have asked only two questions in your opening speech, so, in essence, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, I am at this point in time to respond to the questions in question in this plenary. However, I would like to introduce you to the whole, the whole introduction to this National Electronic Instrument. And maybe you'll change the overall instrument a little bit. You do not have to do this to me, to me, of course, through Mr President, and I do not want to do this, but nevertheless to the overall National Electronic Instrument. I think that in my speech, which was really a very good screening of many issues concerning NEN, I think that this is how I really imagine the work of Members of the Czech Republic, Parliament of the Czech Republic, because such detailed screening, although sometimes flawed, to which I will respond, nevertheless I really have to commend this detail and say that I am also happy for it. And some things that weren't true, so I will also comment on them. Good job. So let me start by introducing information on the emergence of the overall National Electronic Instrument. In 2012, the development of the National Electronic Instrument was launched on the basis of an open procurement contract. Offered tender prices for the implementation of the work were CZK 150 million from DATASYS, and Accenture for CZK 200 million, NWT and NWT respectively were excluded due to missing information in the offer. For example, a type role was missing, which was the basis for evaluation. The result of this public contract was the selection of the most advantageous offer from DATASYS. The NEN implementation was completed by 31. 3. 2014. Repeat - 31. 3. The implementation of the contract by DATASYS was completed in 2014. That means NEN was developed by DATASYS. 31. 3. was also taken over by the Ministry of Regional Development, was accepted and was taken over by the Ministry of Regional Development. On 1. 8. 2015 was launched by the National Electronic Instrument into sharp operation. [[9.30 hours]] I would also like to mention here that in 2014 two other things occurred, namely in July 2014, the Czech Government, the Czech Republic's overall government, as you can certainly find out or someone will find you in your screening - I was not yet a member of the government at this time - but in July 2014, the government approved about three pages of the Czech Government resolution on the obligation of the National Electronic Instrument, with the date to be determined after some analyses by the Ministry of Regional Development. During August and September 2014, as you have not mentioned here, Mr President, a treaty was signed between the Ministry of Regional Development not with TESCO, as you mistakenly mislead the dear Chamber of Deputies, but with the association O2 and TESCO, where the leader of this association is O2. So I'm just adding the truth to your screening here about how the contract is really set up. If your research was done within the register of contracts or open data within the Ministry of Regional Development, this information has been public there for several years. To the contracts you mentioned here, these are other contracts relating to the following years. So at this point, I believe that the Chamber of Deputies has been informed here in a very simple way about the overall instrument. So let me really express myself in detail about what was going on. To the contracts which he examined - I will briefly talk about the Office for the Protection of Competition - ÚOHS, so allow me to state that the award of the public contract itself has not been addressed, but an extension of the performance, which was caused by two amendments to Act No. 137/2016 Coll., on public procurement, as amended. This was a transparent amendment of 2012 and the amendment of the abovementioned Act also in 2013. A fine of 550 000 was imposed on the Ministry of Regional Development by the Office for the Protection of Competition for the extension of the contract period for the development of the National Electronic Instrument which has already been paid. This applies to the previous years 2012, 2013. The contract concerning the modification of the National Electronic Instrument pursuant to Act No.134/2016 Coll., on public procurement, was also realized in an open procurement procedure, with only one tender being accepted. Defects were found in this offer and therefore it was necessary to cancel the offer and cancel the tender procedure by the Ministry for Regional Development. In accordance with Section 22 (2) of Act No.137/2006 Coll., on Public Procurement, negotiations were conducted with the sole interested party for this contract and subsequently a contract was concluded with DEZADATA in May 2016. This contract was also examined in parallel by the Office for the Protection of Competition. On 22 November 2016, the Ministry of Regional Development received the first-stage decision of the ÚOHS. The second stage decision rejecting the breakdown submitted was received on 9 February 2017. I consider it important information here - and here I would also like to bring out the information submitted by the honourable Member to the Chamber of Deputies in true information - that there was no implementation of new updates in the National Electronic Instrument between 22 November 2016 and 9 February 2017, pursuant to Act No. 134/2016 Coll., on Public Procurement. The only procedure was to remove the defects of the work. Here I would also like to comment on what the honourable Chamber of Deputies has said by means of the President about the action for unfair competition. I had a quick check on this lawsuit. We don't know anything about it. So if the Member has more information than the Ministry of Regional Development itself, I would be happy if the honourable Member also gives me this. However, I assume that this is a completely different action than for the unfair competition which the Member probably had in mind. The implementation of new functions has not been carried out since 9 February 2017 and the whole issue with the supplier is currently being settled and the intensive preparation of the new procurement procedure. I would stress the fact that the National Electronic Instrument is a functional information system which is intended for public procurement and has successfully undergone certification. And here I would also kind of bring the House of Deputies to the truth through Mr President versus the words of the Member that it is not true that the four months of NEN have been in operation without basically having the certification. If the honourable Member has also examined the other two instruments which he is probably aware of which exist, and he probably does, he is aware of this, because in April 2017, a meeting took place between the honourable Member, Mr Čížek, who was introduced there as a citizen of the people, and my representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development, where this matter was discussed, and I can say here that the two instruments of certification were not obtained until some time in 2017. So at this point, the fact that the MMR has obtained certification, on the contrary, I consider it a good thing, because I would also like to bring your words out, honourable Member, with the fact that if this system has certification, it is not possible that it is being entered against the law. It's just about the certification. Of course, I am very happy to comment on the pressures that are being put on this instrument, because regardless of the fact that I stand here as Minister for Regional Development, that means the Minister of Government, and the Government is somehow responsible to the Chamber of Deputies, so I stand here also as the statutory body of this department, which bears full responsibility for everything that is going on in this department, and I would also like to tell the Chamber of Deputies that - and I think that dear Members know - that I did not leave anything to be, and if this is obviously happening, it is difficult to stop the National Electronic Instrument for many things. On that point, I would also like to give you an opinion following my opening words. However, the Member, through the President, has said that this is his opening statement, so I suppose we will have a long debate here. I am very, very prepared for it, because, of course, the information I was asked to do is long ago approved by the Czech Government and at this time I consider it irrelevant, but I am very happy to explain it. So at this point, I would like to mention that the volume of public procurement - and so I am also adding this information here because it was not true, which was communicated to the Chamber of Deputies - that currently the volume of public procurement that is being carried out in the system of the National Electronic Instrument is already exceeding CZK 22 billion, of which nearly CZK 8 billion are awarded, without VAT and the system itself is being used by more than 18 companies and institutions. Overall, NEN uses over 300 contracting entities. The largest contracting entities are the Ministry of the Interior, which has completely transferred with its companies to the National Electronic Instrument. So there is no true claim that appears in various media that has also been told that the system is inoperable if such a large Ministry and its organizations have transferred to NEN. At the same time, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs went 100% to NEN and, of course, the Ministry of Regional Development, it was obvious. I would also like to inform the esteemed Chamber of Deputies that contracts which I consider to be large, for example, above CZK 500 million, or CZK 400 million, were awarded, for example, by the Central Military Hospital, the Military Hospital Prague, such as the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the National Security Office for CZK 100 million, such as the LOM PRAHA contract for CZK 292 million, and here we have, for example, the village of Staríč for CZK 260 million. So the system is used by many, not only by the public administration, but also by the local public administration, for which I am really happy because it will serve for it, and for example we have the order of the National Archive of the Czech Republic, and the entire order of repair of the National Museum of almost one billion was awarded in the National Electronic Instrument. So all the information about the tool being dysfunctional isn't true. Of course, the fact that he is not as cuddled as other commercial instruments is true, and I will also comment on that. Since 2015, more than 3,000 people have been trained to work with the National Electronic Instrument, which confirms that NEN is increasingly being used, and the Ministry of Regional Development has long pointed out the approved strategy for the electronicisation of public procurement for the period 2016 to 2020, where the mandatory use of the National Electronic Instrument has been envisaged since 2018. This strategy, I recall, was approved by the Government of the Czech Republic in January 2016. [[9.40 hours]] So there may be a bit of a response to the honourable Member. All departments, because it was approved by the government and it acts as a collective body, are not only the Šlechtová and some ministers, the government as a collective body adopted the so-called electronicisation of public procurement, the strategy for this electronicisation in January 2016, thereby reclaiming the obligation of this electronic instrument. Of course, the fact that, as the Member has also communicated, some esteemed colleagues of the Czech Government, coalition partners, non-competitive partners, criticize this National Electronic Instrument is true information. However, it is also necessary, and this was reminded of my letters and letters from the Prime Minister to gradually leave commercial entities for the National Electronic Instrument to try out contracts there. Unfortunately, the fact that they didn't do this is a problem for them in particular, because at this time, they are obviously exposed to certain risks after the approval of the materials by the Czech government the previous week. The Ministry of Regional Development has developed NEN for public procurement through the National Infrastructure for Electronic Procurement project in order to introduce modern information and communication technologies into the procurement process, thereby ensuring the availability of an electronic tool enabling comprehensive support for the entire life cycle of the public procurement. The audit of the subsidies for the NIPEZ project was carried out by the audit authority of the Ministry of Finance and found errors in the project with financial value. The audit authority reported that it was about 50 miles. Crowns. Following reactions from the Ministry of Regional Development, the amount remains at 42 million. Crowns. At this point, I am personally waiting for the Financial Administration to come to us and I will receive a bill in quotation marks and, on the basis of this matter, I personally immediately submit a criminal report, because these are the things that took place in 2011, 2012 and 2013. This correction was calculated due to a substantial change in the contract as a result of delivery from a technical point of view other than the one which was competitive. And maybe this is the first thing that happened in some way that shouldn't have happened, where the Ministry of Regional Development in 2011, 2012 and 2013 had essentially suppliers on the basis of procurement documents, where the supplier supplied some things completely extra, which are essentially not usable. I must say that the Ministry of Regional Development has identified this correction, only as my leadership, because, of course, I consider it a major error. That amount is 42 miles. has not been reimbursed from the European Union in the Czech Republic, with the total value of the NIPEZ project being 250 million. Crowns. In this context, I can also add that this project, both NIPEZ and NEN, is being examined by the Czech Police, which repeatedly requested materials from the Ministry of Regional Development for the project in question. Here I can say that in the last two years I have been in office, the Police of the Czech Republic has been doing very actively at the Ministry of Regional Development, but we do not yet have any statements from the Police of the Czech Republic. Of course, I cannot communicate what is being saved here, but basically everything and almost all the orders and, of course, persons are being dealt with completely. In addition, in 2013 and 2015, the SAO audit focused on the overall NIPEZ project, when several main points were recommended to the Ministry of Regional Development. Here let me give them structurally. Here, Mr President, allow me to correct your words, because I will really quote this from the SAO's findings, and I will also tell you our reactions. Initiate the introduction of compulsory use of certified electronic procurement tools, which was implemented through a government resolution to make compulsory use of NEN, that is, contracting entities can apply for an exemption from the use of NEN if they have a certified tool - the first thing. The second thing is to define standards for electronic tools. This is where Decree No. 260/2016 on the establishment of more detailed conditions concerning electronic tools, electronic actions in the award of public contracts and certificates of conformity. The third thing is to intensify communication with the NEN contracting authorities. Thus, more than 3,000 people have been trained since 2015. In 2017, over a thousand people were trained in just one year. We also have a functional e-learning that I have specified that we just have to do it so that we have better communication with all the contracting entities. And of course, at this point in time, the SAO found that we should process the so-called enterprise architecture of NIPEZ. And here I would also like to respond and confirm the words of the Member, because if there is such an instrument and we will receive, after the evaluation of 2013-2014 from the SAO, the enterprise architecture of NIPEZ, I personally ask at this time as the statutory body of the MMR, how is it that the architecture was not commissioned in 2011 during the very first procurement procedures. At the end of my speech or following another debate, probably with the Member, I will also tell you the risks which I carry as a citizen of the Czech Republic, and, of course, at the end of my post as Minister for Regional Development, it is clear that I will go to interrogations where I am going now, and, of course, I also request legal protection from the State and I am curious who will personally give it to me. Just like that. On the question of linking the National Electronic Instrument with the contracting authorities' internal information systems, as pointed out by the Member through the President correctly, I say that NEN is designed as a universal tool for all contracting authorities, namely public administration, territorial administration, plus all our organisations, which means for the future of the school established by municipalities and regions and so on. As such, we cannot meet all individual requirements of all contracting entities, which are several thousand in the Czech Republic. And here I am, because I have experienced this exercise with a monitoring system, where after a large audit by the Ministry of Finance, when eventually the correction or finding Financial Administration is zero, so the whole audit was really just a big unnecessary boom, that at the moment we will not meet all individual requirements, because it is a state instrument that is free. I didn't actually say that - it's a free prepared tool for the contracting authority for the electronicisation of public procurement. If the contracting authority has an individual electronic tool linked to its internal systems and the change to NEN would mean disproportionately high costs to it, it may, according to the draft Government resolution, ask the Government of the Czech Republic to grant an exemption. At that time, the Ministry of Regional Development established a so-called working group, not only the steering committee, Mr President, but also the working group for the functionality of the NEN, where representatives of all ministries participate, and there are solutions to the requirements for changing the system from its users. What I consider very crucial at the moment is the integration and migration of data. I'll comment on that. The national electronic tool uses technology from Microsoft, which was reported by Microsoft to terminate this support, that is to say Silverlight, which means that this technology will not be further developed and supported by this company. The MMR is aware of this and we are preparing steps that solve this problem. However, I would like to mention here that this does not only apply to the National Electronic Instrument, but many state instruments in various state organisations, that is, the departments of the Czech government and our state, because there are many systems going to Silverlight Microsoft, or the additional costs of many state systems must be prepared by each resort. The public contract for this support is under way at the moment, which means it is not only prepared but it is ongoing. I will now comment on the participation of the Deputy Chairman of the Public Investment Section in the meeting of the Steering Group. Here I would like to say that the group is composed of senior officials, head of department and director of the department, where it is at the level of the Director, where the Director of the Ministry of Regional Development participates in the Department of Electronisation of Public Procurement, and for this reason the Deputys are not involved in other departments. Here I would like to inform the honourable Chamber of Deputies and, in detail, the honourable Member, through Mr President, that 21. 6. the Government of the Czech Republic has decided to impose on members of the Government and heads of other central administrative offices and their subordinate bodies and organisations which are contracting entities pursuant to § 4 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) and (c) Act No. 134/2016 on public procurement, the obligation to use NEN as an electronic marketplace. That means from 1. 7. 2018 for commodities set out in the Annex to the resolution in question, Annex No. 1, commodities there are large quantities, it is of course to be found in eKLEP, it is found on our website mmr.cz. In addition, it imposed an obligation to use NEN for the award of public contracts which are not mandatory commodities listed in Annex No. 1 with the possibility of requesting the Government of the Czech Republic to grant an exemption from this obligation from 1. 7. 2018. Furthermore, it allows not to award a small-scale contract through NEN, the estimated value of which does not exceed 500 thousand. CZK without value added tax. [[9.50 hours]] The last topic I would take in this letter and respectively. which is subsequently received by the Member, who liked to pay, is the cost of electronic marketplaces managed by the Ministry of Regional Development. This concerns e-markets. Here I would like to inform the Chamber of Deputies that there is some big NIPEZ project that is supposed to electronize all public procurements. He's got NEN under him. And part of the NEN are the so-called electronic marketplaces. The electronic marketplace was also created to my great surprise when I had an analysis of why MMR had concluded such contracts with commercial suppliers in 2011. Anyway, it happened. In 2011 and 2012, concession contracts were concluded by the Ministry of Regional Development with private companies for the operation of electronic marketplaces. At that time - at that time, I inform the Chamber of Deputies - the Ministry of Regional Development and the government knew that electronic marketplaces would be part of NEN, it was known that NEN would be mandatory. So at this point, this was supposed to be a temporary thing for electronic marketplaces to work in the Czech Republic. The aim of these concession contracts was to accelerate electronic procurement. The compulsory use of these instruments for central government bodies has been provided for, and the compulsory award concerned, in particular, small-scale public procurement for selected commodities. Here I stress that MMR cannot pay for private tools and at the same time own a national electronic tool with the same functionality when NEN is offered free of charge. Therefore, the Ministry of Regional Development has long advocated the use of NEN instead of those and other private instruments. It went through basically every month's notice of the members of the government, seven letters I've sent over the past year and a half to the members of the government. However, at this point, I would also like to mention that the granting of the above certification has once again confirmed that many media attacks by companies operating these commercial electronic tools are not entirely based on the truth. And, of course, their only goal is to maintain their own instruments and the funding they generate. Here I only inform the honourable, honourable Chamber of Deputies, because it is not known. There are two commercial electronic tools. There were more. Now there's two left. One of the companies was also communicated by the Member through the President in his speech. Everyone knew the concession contracts were over 30. 6. 2017. The fact that, of course, they didn't prepare for this, the fact that the ministries didn't prepare for it, the fact that at this point, of course, the MMR is under fire, and even the proposal of the government was to impose on me to sign amendments to these treaties illegally - I warn you, illegally - so at this point, I personally do not know how I would react if the government had imposed it on me. However, I would have respected the Government's resolution. However, the government decided subsequently, as I have already said. From 1. 7. 2017 is a compulsory electronic marketplace that is under NEN. At this point, the Ministry of Regional Development will not extend contracts with commercial entities. We can't even afford it under other laws, namely the State Property Act, then the big budget rules, because if the Ministry of Regional Development had concluded contracts with commercial entities that provided exactly the same as the Ministry of Regional Development for free, at the moment I, as a statutory body, violate these laws. That means I'm uneconomically managing public funds of the state, and I could, of course, go straight to jail. So at this point, the subsidization of private systems on the basis of concession contracts for the last four years - and now, honourable Chamber of Deputies, I will give you the sum - is 170 million for which both commercial systems were created. For 170 million, these two commercial entities, of course, have made their own systems, which I accept, and I am aware that they have a better user environment than the National Electronic Instrument. However, these systems were created with the support of the State of the Czech Republic, with the support of the Ministry of Regional Development, which concluded this on the basis that it would only be temporary, then the data will be transferred to NEN. And at this point, I have also ordered my officials to meet - i.e. here, Mr. Ambassador, other information that you mentioned that we are not willing to act at the level of the chiefs of my legal, deputy, state secretary. A meeting took place with representatives of QCM and Tendermarket, where the exit from this meeting is basically nothing. This means that both entities insist that their commercial entities exist, insist that MMR extend concession contracts with them. However, as I said a moment ago, the government did not impose this on me, so this will not happen at this time. However, from the outputs and from the entry I have, and I have it from my people, so there was a great negation from these subjects. I offered a possible deal because there's no way we could have been assaulting each other here for years. And here I may add that the National Electronic Instrument is part of the fulfilment of the conditions to which the Czech Republic has committed itself to comply with all European directives, which are thus three in the framework of the electronicisation of public procurement, it is also part of our new Public Procurement Act, and at the same time NEN is part of the so-called ex ante preconditions to ensure that this NEN will be free of charge for all contracting entities. So the NEN is very complex. I hope, Mr President, that I have convinced you that I am dealing with this. Personally, I'm not happy about it at all. However, as a statutory body, I am purely and only myself, who bears the responsibility on the basis of the imposition of a resolution by the Czech Government, where the government has given me many things that I must observe at the moment. At this point, Mr President, I would like to put an end to my comments on your introduction, your speech. However, I can, of course, complete both with government resolutions and, of course, I can also inform you about the next steps that the MMR is preparing at this time. Sorry. You've asked two more questions. Who is responsible or how the MMR took place for this skandrian. Given that the Chamber of Deputies also approved the Civil Service Act, the State Secretary, on whom I gave the initiative to deal with this matter with the employees of the Ministry of Regional Development, where we also dealt with Mr Postránecký, is the highest civil servant. And, of course, officials who are responsible for mistakes concerning contracts for 2016 were punished under the Civil Service Act, under the Service Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u5	Thank you, Minister Šlechtová. A colleague of Šrámek checked out of a factual remark. So Mr. Jiří Valenta can continue. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u6	Thank you again for the floor, Mr President. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the good answer that was from the Minister, who was really a better order than I received in writing. Thank you for your information, too. I'm going to change my Tesco SW to O2+Tesco. I really didn't know that. But I don't think it's that important of what we're talking about here. You explained the final penalty. Of course, I will continue to watch the trial of punishing the culprits continue, because I believe, not only as chairman of the subcommittee on the ICT industry and eGovernment, that firing a hundred thousand just for this kind of sklendrian should not suffer in our country. And now I would like to conclude - I do not want to discuss this issue anymore, because it is quite a technical matter. I don't think many of you can see that much. I will have, as I have requested from the Minister, a detailed analysis of the technical feasibility, legal and economic impact and the impact of any risks associated with the change or maintenance of the current state of electronicisation of public procurement carried out by the MMR. I'll get it worked out. And if any of you, colleagues and fellow Members, were interested in this through the President, you would have it at my disposal, or even the Ministry itself would have it published somewhere afterwards. But for the very conclusion, I need to explain one thing from the Minister and ask one question. [[10.00 hours]] A little bit, I don't mean to say it offended me, but I was a little surprised when I read on her block that the MP seems to have forgotten that, specifically because of him, I had the Ministry of Regional Development in charge of me organizing an explanatory seminar, where Mr Valenta arrived together with one of the entrepreneurs involved in the competitive electronic procurement system. He mentions and encounters the potential ulterior motives of Valenta. He thinks that Valenta does not work in the interests of citizens and the state, but in the interests of businessmen, the Euro news server complements. Well, Madam Secretary, I don't know, but there's never been a seminar like this in your ministry this year or the year before, it just never happened. There was only one information meeting that was initiated by your ministry in my office in the presence of three of your officials, and I invited one opponent from the opponent. And there's nothing wrong with that, and there's nothing wrong with me working for businessmen. I just didn't want my brain to be drained unilaterally by the Ministry of Regional Development. And you mustn't be mad at me, that's probably how it should be anyway. And another thing. Yes, you set some of my information straight, I agree. In my speech, the information was about two or three months ago, and it was caused not only by me, but it was also caused by a mistake in that you were here, I don't want to say, avoiding this discussion, and you really didn't come here until the fourth time, and especially your last oral apology to the House that you were abroad, while I was some informants when I said it like that, saying that you weren't abroad, so that bothered me, too. But I don't want to shake you on this right now, but I'm more interested in why, so the information isn't up to date, is it? So if you answer that question, I'll be glad. So if you're really in Malta, as your secretariat said, if you were really there at the time, because it was explicitly sent to the House as an apology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u7	Madam Secretary, you still have to wait, because Mr Vladimír Koníček has a point of fact, and in your case I see the application as a priority right. Even if it's factual, electronic comes first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u8	Madam President, I would just like to make a point about Silverlight, because Microsoft ended supporting the environment in 2012, so this should have been dealt with considerably earlier. I would also like to ask you to quantify the savings for 2016 which NEN has brought. I think you must have that information, because tomorrow is the deadline for you to pass this information on to the inspection committee, and we haven't gotten anything yet. So I believe the information is ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u9	I thank my colleague Koníček for keeping time on the point of fact, and the Minister has a chance to answer. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u10	Mr President, honourable Members, through Mr President, I will first respond to Mr Valenta. I don't know if it's really about me or if it's about Nen or if it's about Nipez because I don't really know where you're going here. I'm not avoiding anything, and I think I've shown you that I'm really very intense about NEN. It was me who came to the house on October 8, 2014. At the first meeting, I had to find out what the condition of this instrument was, and at this point I was told: "We don't know. We don't know if it's mandatory or optional. And at that moment, as early as October 2014, those officials sitting there and now sitting at the Ministry of Finance should have known long ago that they had given Mrs. Jourová the material where the government of the Czech Republic had approved NEN's obligation. So, frankly, I personally save this by, of course, personnel matters, but also by the Police of the Czech Republic. And at this point, I'm not gonna be able to tell you and I can't even get to know the details of how I'm progressing towards this whole project. I do my utmost to the person what the Czech Republic has committed itself to the state, because otherwise the MMR long ago in 2011, 2012 has misled the state, and perhaps even in 2013, and, of course, to the European Commission, because I am the one flying to Brussels, Malta and other matters where we meet with 28 ministers and deal with individual ex ante consistency, where for example. is a construction law where there are public contracts. And here I have to say that our Czech Republic is very highly praised by the European Commission for the transposition of our new law, but also by the fact that we are basically the only ones who have the free system here, and the fact that I turn around, and now I am speaking abstractly and metaphorically, I will turn left, one or both companies will attack it at the ÚOHS, I will turn right, again it is attacked at the ÚOHS. We're in pliers at the moment. So the Ministry of Regional Development has hired a law firm that processes procurement documents for further development of the National Electronic Instrument, where I expect of course quality processing. And then the Ministry of Regional Development just has to, it has to compete with this contract, because at this point, we were forbidden to continue with Dezadata. Of course, here only in a friendly spirit, Mr President, as I have told you that there is no action for unfair competition, there is actually an action for the provision of services by the company against the MMR, where it is not true, because we do not use any of their services at that time, since it was prohibited. Unless, of course, it's in the NEN complaint. So it's totally not true. We're gonna sue at this point, so it goes into lawsuit, and it's just really a big legal problem. Here, perhaps I will inform the honourable Chamber of Deputies of one thing, so that you know where the state can go. I joined there in October 2014 and as a natural person Karla Šlechtová, a citizen of the Czech Republic, I hired my own attorney because at the moment as a statutory body with no parliamentary mandate, I have no immunity, so of course I am the one who can go to prison, I am the one who will go to interrogation and walk, who explains things from 2011, 2012, 2013. And here I have to say that I personally expect the Police of the Czech Republic to take place very quickly, because this instrument simply has to go on no matter what happens. We made a commitment. And at this point, if we cancel the NEN, of course, it's an inefficient management of public funds. I'm curious to know which Minister of Regional Development or the Government of the Czech Republic would impose this on the Minister of Regional Development, because this thing would really be a lock-up. So at this point, the MMR has to finish the fight. And believe me, I have tried, and I have been very strict with my officials on this matter, where I really wanted to know the different alternatives that we can go with, with the fact that, of course, the lawyers gave me opinions about it, and at this point, we need to move on with NEN. We have to keep going with him. The government has imposed that it will be mandatory from 1. 7. 2018. Resorts repeatedly - and yesterday I sent my letter to understand that NEN had to use it. However, they have contracts with the two commercial entities, so it is up to every minister who is responsible at the moment for the costs they spend from 1. 7. 2017 for these commercial entities. And, of course, there's another thing for me where I was introduced, and now I've only been informed by my officials, I don't have it verified at government level, when, of course, the companies that commercial companies own, the data of the individual resorts, because they didn't supply it in NEN and we don't have it in NEN because they entered it in commercial entities, so, of course, we're now ready to take all the data into that NEN, but there's also, of course, the question of willingness of those companies. And all I'm saying here is that under the concession agreement, the famous concession agreement that the MMR signed with them in 2012, it's been established that there's basically no sanctions against those two companies at all. Personally, I don't understand how this MMR could have shut down. However, in the end, there is an action against those two companies. So at this point, I will be very happy to cooperate with all the players in this market, because this NEN can become a problem. And I think that at this point, the people who set up the whole project should be responsible. And there is the question of what was the aim of the project when it was not until 2014, i.e. Four years later, the government decided on the NEN's duties. If the NEN was optional and there were other commercial instruments, it should have been negotiated with the commission, but the government said it would be mandatory, so we were only negotiating the obligation of the National Electronic Instrument. As far as the honourable other Member is concerned, through Mr President, you will receive the material tomorrow. I have it here now, but I will not introduce it to the Chamber of Deputies because it has been requested by the Supervisory Committee and it will receive it by tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u11	Thank you, Minister Karla Šlechtová. Mr Pavel Šrámek's point of view is now in effect. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd just respond to two things. Madam Secretary asked what it was about. It's about the election campaign. As many of you probably know, Mr Valenta is a leader in the Plzeň Region, Madam Secretary too, so perhaps we could carry these some of the outputs until September, October. But I'd like to respond to Mr. Valenta when he was talking about so-called. Brain lavage. That he had to invite a lobbyist so his brain wouldn't get so flushed. You see, Mr President, your party has been washing our brains out here for 40 years, and we have also not been entitled to any lobbyist.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u13	Well, that was factual, thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u14	Hello. Thank you for the floor. I'm a little sorry about Mr. Speaker's comment. I don't mean about the 40-year brainwashing, I'd agree with that, but there's some kind of election campaign going on here. Here's the question, the so-called issue. NENu, there's been a heads-up here almost two years ago. I was one of those who had an interview with Minister Šlechtová, and we drew attention to the problems that really happened today. So this isn't new, it didn't show up yesterday or the day before yesterday, but it's been dragging around for quite a while. And that meeting by the Minister today, as I followed him, was quite factual until the unnecessary emotional touch gave it. The fact that there are problems is clear. I guess it's obvious that someone's going to jail, too, because there's a really big problem. I don't mean to anticipate, but if I'm watching the case, I'm really, really gonna like to be wrong, but it can't end well there. And only to the secretary. It, as she said, is not an MP - well, it will not even protect the parliamentary mandate. That's what other ministers who signed contracts might be talking about. And I don't mean anything wrong, but they were signing contracts, and they're still going to court today. I'm going to mention to the Secretary of Defense, who was de facto completely innocent of this, and has been solving this problem for years for nothing. So we should rather prevent it and look for a solution now than put back the problems. And unfortunately, that time just wasn't used. So we got into the situation that we got into.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am no longer going to speak to the Minister, more or less her answer, I do not want to say that she satisfied me, because she has already embarked on a train. But, of course, I can't be happy with her answer. The real state of affairs at the Ministry of Regional Development, when there is now a fire that can be put out, really cannot satisfy me. But I wanted to say something about a fellow Member, Mr Šrámek, who presented here a textbook demagogy example of how the House should not speak and act. This means, from the nature of the problems to move towards politicalization and personification of individual people. And just labeling completely useless, it's meaningless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u17	There was no suggestion. Please, Madam Secretary, you have one more word, of course.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u18	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would perhaps still use that moment within this subject, within this written interpelation. I would like to ask you and also appeal to you, because many of you are representatives and basically you have contacts with your municipal policies, so that the municipalities use the NEN as well. Because there are many municipalities that use it, there are regions that use it. So I'm just asking you to address the NEN for real use. It's free, it's functional. Ask them to go to the Ministry of Regional Development. I will be very happy for it, because it is a state instrument and any Minister of Regional Development will stand before you and defend it. The instrument the state pulls on. Maybe as a burden, but let's make it functional together. So if I can also address you as a representative or councilman or, of course, members of the council of different regions, I would be very happy to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u19	Thank you, Minister for Regional Development Karla Šlechtová. Since there has not been any proposal that we should vote on, that is, Mr Jiří Valenta has not taken advantage of the opportunity to reject the additional answer yet, I think we can put an end to this intervention. Before we go any further, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. From 10 to 13 o'clock, Mrs Helena Langšádlová apologises and from 14.30 to the end of the sitting day, Mrs Miloslava Rutová. So I ended up responding to the interpelation of Jiří Valenta to Minister Karla Šlechtová and the following rejected answer is my interpellation to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka is duly excused at today's meeting. And so I will ask, if you will allow me, from this place, because I have no one here to replace me, and I can make it as President, I will propose that this press, press hearing 1136 be interrupted into the presence of the Prime Minister. We'll decide that in the 59th vote I'll launch, and I'll see if you'll agree to that. I have begun voting 59 and I ask who is in favour of interrupting press hearing 1136 until the Prime Minister's presence. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 59. Of the present 84 for 50, against 2. The motion was accepted. Thank you. In this way, we have exhausted the response to written interpelations to ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic, with whom the Members have not spoken, the Member has agreed. In view of our agenda, I will interrupt the meeting by 11 o'clock, when we will continue under the approved agenda by the fixed points, and the first item is paragraph 43, press 1076, which will be mentioned by the Minister of Human Rights. Thank you, and I'm interrupting the meeting by 11 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u20	Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that we have already firmly placed points at today's 11:00 meeting. It's points 43, 50, 59 and 60. Then we would discuss other points, and these are points from the block of the Treaty - first reading. I wonder if you have any suggestions to amend the approved agenda for this meeting. Mr. Chairman Sklenák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u21	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to propose amendments to the agenda for tomorrow's meeting. Well, not today. One thing. A colleague of Votava proposed to discuss the State Budget Act. That's what we graduated from. According to my information, yesterday, the Committee on Budgets, which also discussed the press, met, and given that we have very radically reduced the time limits for discussion there, it would be appropriate that we continue our second and third readings. So I suggest we put 1100 on the agenda for the second and third reading of the press, and at the same time I suggest that we do the second reading tomorrow as the very first item. Given the consensus and the speed of negotiations at first reading, I do not expect that point to last more than a few minutes. That's one of my suggestions. At the same time, allow me to respond to yesterday's meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we did not get to the two important prints that we expected to discuss, namely paragraphs 84 and 85, the Parliament's press 1017 and 1018 at third reading. I also looked at the screen recording of the discussion at first and second readings. In my opinion, this is not time-consuming and we could also approve these points quite quickly at third reading tomorrow. I therefore propose that we place them firmly as the point that is now the first firmly placed, if my first proposal had been passed, it would have been the third point after the amendment to the state budget and following the proposal of my colleague Kaňkovský and others. And my last proposal concerns paragraph 98, which is the third reading of the Trade Business Act, press 1014. There I would just like to say that at first and second reading, there was no Member in the general debate, so I assume that this will also be the case at the third reading. So also a very timeless point, and I would suggest that you include it as the last fixed point tomorrow. After all the already firmly placed points tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u22	Thank you. I'm asking who else is applying. I saw... Okay. Mr. Chairman Stanjura. After him, Mr. Chairman Mihola. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u23	Hello. I would like to respond to President Sklenák's speech, to have a counterproposal on that second point where he proposes to include points number... one second. [[Vice-President Bartošek: 84, 85.]] 84, 85 as in principle third and fourth. I'd put a counterproposal and put them in point 42. This means to place it firmly behind paragraph 42, which is the first reading in the '90s. That means before the trade law. That's my counterproposal, if we understand each other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u24	Okay. Thank you, too. Please, Mr. Chairman, if you want to be more specific.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u25	I understand. I just unfortunately had to suggest the inclusion as I suggested, due to the time-consumingness of the Minister of Health. And I am afraid that if we were to approve the counter-proposal of our colleague Stanjura, this would be a time when the Minister would not be able to be present in the House for work reasons. So I'd like to ask you to support my proposal after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u26	Okay, thank you. And now, Prime Minister Mihola.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u27	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask for a firm inclusion of paragraph 32, House press 1020, which is an amendment to Act No. 268/2014 Coll., on Medical Devices, and on Amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Coll., and on administrative fees, as amended, on Thursday 13. 7:00 p.m., 12:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u28	Okay, thank you. I wonder if anyone else still has proposals to adjust the agenda for this meeting. I don't see any suggestions. In that case, we'd have a vote. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. So first of all, we will vote on the proposals made by President Sklenák. I'll give the proposal. May I have your attention, my colleague, in case I don't have them exactly marked. You want to include a second and third reading of the State Budget Act at this meeting. So I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who agrees with this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 60-order vote. 112 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 100, against none. This proposal has been approved. Furthermore, there is a proposal for the second reading of the state budget to be included as the first item of the meeting tomorrow. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 61. 112 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 95, against no one. I note that this proposal has been approved and that the second reading of the state budget has been included as the first item on Friday. Furthermore, we have a proposal that paragraphs 84 and 85 be included as the second and third points of tomorrow's negotiations. For point 88, yes. That means, as the third and fourth points of tomorrow's negotiations for paragraph 88. [[Messenger. - Third and fourth.]] I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 62. 112 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 93, against 6. This proposal has been approved. Furthermore, there is a third proposal, and that is that paragraph 98, House press 1014, should be included tomorrow after fixed points. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 63. 112 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 98, against no one. The proposal has been approved. [[11.10 hours]] Now there is a proposal by President Stanjura to include paragraphs 84 and 85 as paragraph 42, but I think the House has voted for a firm classification, so this point is unvoteable. We have here Mr Mihola's proposal that paragraph 32, the Act on Medical Devices, House Press 1020 be firmly placed on 13. 7:00 p.m., 12:30 p.m. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 64, 113 Members and Members registered, for proposal 101, against no one. This proposal has been approved. This has dealt with proposals for changing the agenda of the meeting. We'll start discussing individual points. [[The microphone is approached by a Member of the Roots.]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u29	Thank you. I couldn't turn the voting device on in the 60 vote. I was up for it otherwise. It's just for the tape screen, I'm not questioning the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-29-ps2013-059-03-001-189.u30	Well, thank you, too. So we will now discuss individual points according to the approved programme. Initiating the first point of today's negotiations, it is
