ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-30-ps2017-002-02-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member of the Government.... [[There's only one minister in the government desk.]] I welcome you and ask you to settle in your seats. I am opening another meeting on the 2nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and I would like you all to sign up with your identification cards and, if necessary, tell me who is applying for a replacement card. I say that the following Members asked to apologize for their absence at today's meeting: Andrej Babiš - working grounds, Jiří Běhounek - working reasons, Jan Birke - foreign trip, Stanislav Blaha without giving reason, Jan Čižinský - working reasons, Petr Dolínek without giving reason, Eva Fialová from 14.30 for working reasons, Tomáš Hanzel until 10.00 for work reasons, Tereza Hyťhová for health reasons, Monika Jarošová for family reasons, Josef Kott for work reasons, Pavel Kováčik - health reasons, Ilona Mauritzová without stating reason, Jiří Mihola without stating reason, Patrik Nacher - working reasons, Ondřej Profant - working reasons, Karel Schwarzenberg - working reasons, Antonín Staněk without stating the reason, Rostislav Vyzula - health reasons, Radek Zlesák from 1.00 - working grounds. From members of the government apologizes Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka for working reasons, Pavel Bělobrádek from 17.30 for working reasons, Jiří Havlíček for work reasons, Daniel Herman for work reasons, Marian Jurečka for work reasons, Miloslav Ludvík for work reasons, Michaela Marksová for work reasons, Ivan Pilný for work reasons, Karla Šlechtová for foreign travel reasons, Stanislav Štech for work reasons, Dan Ťok from 11.30 for health reasons. There. [[Restlessness in the room.]] I'm gonna ask you once again to keep your voice down and settle in place so we can continue. Thank you, if it's for what... Today's meeting will begin at paragraph 18, which is the motion to confirm the chairmen of the Chamber of Deputies Committees. I would also like to point out to you that the voting points 19 to 29 of the approved agenda of the 2nd meeting are unnegotiable at this point, given that the President of the Election Commission, Mr Martin Kolovratník, has announced time limits for the submission of proposals to Members set up by the Permanent Commissions of the Chamber of Deputies and Parliament's permanent delegations to inter-European organisations by Monday, 4 December at 10.00. The points will be discussed at some of the other meetings of the Chamber of Deputies. In case, then... With replacement card number three, Vice-President Hamáček votes. Therefore, if there are no further proposals on the agenda item and I have not been informed that anyone would make themselves known, I will therefore propose that we vote on the elimination of paragraphs 19 to 29 of the approved agenda of the 2nd meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[It's busy in the hall.]] If you've registered me, we'll vote 19 to 29 vote out of this meeting's agenda. Points will be discussed at the next meeting. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? This is vote number 51. 153 Members are enrolled, for 149. The motion was accepted. That's why we eliminated points 19 to 29 from the 2nd meeting. In addition, we will address points 30, 31, 32, 33 and 34 of the approved agenda of the 2nd meeting. Please note that applications for oral interviews may be submitted no later than 11 o'clock and their lottery draw will take place at 11.30 - if some of them are submitted. There is a preliminary agreement between the club presidents that they will not be filed in writing (?) interpelation. In that case, we could possibly end this meeting earlier. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in the show to change the program of the rest of the meeting. I don't see anybody, so I think we can proceed with item No. 18. Opening point
