ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u1	79. Members of Rujbrová Bebarová Rujbroová's proposal, Stanislav Grospič, Zdeněk Ondráček, Jaroslav Borka and Soňa Marková on the issue of the law on legal assistance /house printing 390/ - first reading The Government's position was delivered as the House's press 390/1. I ask that the proposal put forward by Mr Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová, the appellants' representative. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Hello, colleagues and colleagues. The bill I'm submitting to you on behalf of my colleagues is 390. It was submitted in January 2015 and to some extent addresses a similar issue to the previous draft law on advocacy. It addresses the issue of providing legal assistance to citizens. The right to legal aid is founded directly by the constitutional order of the Czech Republic, when pursuant to Article 37 (1) of the Treaty. 2 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms has the right of legal aid to everyone in proceedings before the courts, other public authorities, since the beginning of the procedure. Legal aid is now regulated by individual legislation. However, it is not provided uniformly or systematically. The aim of the proposal is, in particular, the harmonisation of individual partial adjustments and the setting of criteria for providing the necessary legal assistance and free legal assistance or legal assistance for reduced remuneration to persons who do not have sufficient resources to ensure that their rights are defended in a qualified manner. In view of the identified problems, the proposal is presented in such a way as to regulate the right to legal aid, secondly, to regulate legal aid free of charge and, thirdly, to amend the laws which have already been amended, legal aid is regulated in such a way that its provisions do not conflict with the new law. I would like to point out that, in view of the long time since the draft law, i.e. two years, the proposal will also need to be updated in the light of the provisions adopted in the meantime. The purpose of the law should then be to establish a system for providing legal aid and ensuring its provision to the extent provided for by the law. Free legal aid should be provided to persons who, as a result of their material need, cannot use legal services to properly exercise and protect their rights and who demonstrate that their property conditions justify ensuring legal aid at the expense of the State. I would point out the final part of the government's negative position on our proposal. The Government states that by the end of the year - I note the proposal was submitted in January 2015 - the subject of free legal assistance negotiations will be the government bill. I'm asking where he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u3	Thank you. I now ask that the Member take the floor for the first reading of Mr Marek Černoch. [[The MP isn't coming.]] I'll ask for a moment of patience. [[Mr. Tejc is coming to the speaker's office.]] The debate is not open. You can speak either with priority rights or with a procedural proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u4	Mr Vice-President, I, too, have searched in vain for Mr Černoch, who is the rapporteur for this press. Although I saw him here in the hall a while ago, he's not here at the moment. So if there is any interest in continuing this point, as the chairman of the committee, I would, if necessary, make a motion to be set up for this time for this reading by the rapporteur of the law, so that we do not deprive the House of valuable time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u5	Okay. Since this is a first reading, we must vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. [[An unintelligible response from the O.R. A moment of waiting.]] The rapporteur is present, but he's out of the O.R. That means I may propose a suspension of the hearing. In that case, I'm interrupting the meeting for three minutes. We will wait for the reporter of this press to arrive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u6	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for the break is up, the rapporteur for the first reading has arrived, and I therefore ask Mr Marek Černoch to take the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u7	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, I ran. On this bill, I would like to say that legal aid is now regulated by individual legislation. However, it is not provided uniformly or systematically, and I therefore welcome the proposal that is being put forward, because this proposal is now introducing systematicity into this law and it is a matter which, I think, is very important for people, because at the moment not only is there great ignorance in the possibilities of free legal aid, but the beneficiary does not normally have the choice of a legal aid provider so that he can make a decision according to his wishes. This bill is of great importance, I think, and I will be glad if it is released for second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u8	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate in which I am registering one application. I therefore ask Mr Grospič to speak in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u9	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would take the liberty, as one of the proponents of this law, to speak in support of it, namely that this law was submitted to the Chamber of Deputies quite soon, at the beginning of the term of office, has a press number of 390, which in itself indicates that it has been behind it for a long time before it finally received its plenary session here at the Chamber of Deputies. It is perhaps not a secret that the government has put its reasoning to work, expressed its opposition to this proposal, and yet I would like to draw attention here to some of the moments that have already been said in the introductory words. First, the right to legal aid is already established in the Czech Republic by constitutional order and is directly derived from Article 37 (1) of the Treaty. 2 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. According to him, everyone has the right to legal aid in proceedings before the courts, other public authorities or public authorities since the beginning of the procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 The Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms then provides for the law in which cases, in criminal proceedings, the accused person may have the right to free assistance from the lawyer. However, the legislation in force allows the provision of free legal aid in principle and this free legal aid is also implemented in practice, but only retroactively. And the legislation in force is fragmented, not always uniform, and in its consequences it provides a disproportionate wide discretion for the authorities to decide on the granting of free legal aid, i.e. the defence, in the opinion of the petitioners. Today, for illustration, this difference in legislation is expressed in 15 different legislations, starting with the very provision of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. The aim of the bill is, above all, to harmonise these partial provisions and the criteria for providing the necessary legal assistance. As petitioners, we are aware that by bringing the law forward at the beginning of the parliamentary term, we will probably not avoid reacting if it is released for second reading within the Chamber of Deputies for partial adaptations that would respond to the current legal changes in our legal order, primarily to a standard that applies, for example, to civil law. I would also like to quote here the opinion of the Czech Bar Association on the proposal submitted, when the parliamentary bill on legal aid, which is based on the issues already processed in 2008 by the Czech Bar Association itself, although the Bar Association has no longer participated in its submission, so it fully supports it and considers it highly necessary. This right does not involve any restrictive conditions and should also be implemented for those who are unable to obtain legal aid in a contractual manner, see the Constitutional Court's finding, such as 699/3, or the Constitutional Court 167/05, or the Constitutional Court's 351/05 and other deficits of legal regulation in this respect, and the professional public has been aware for a long time that fragmentation of legislation has not contributed to stability and legal certainty in the Czech Republic. In this sense, therefore, the discussion of the bill would have its place and it would be very desirable for it to be passed at least until further reading and subject to a significant discussion and moment when we could discuss the need in particular. I would also like to read here in addition the data relating to legal assistance in criminal and civil proceedings from 2010 to 2014. In 2010, a total of 172 588 people requested legal aid in civil proceedings. In 2011 it was 175 815 people, then 143 954 people, in 2013 it was 134 488 people and 2014 it was 140 596 people. In criminal proceedings, this figure was even higher. In 2010 it ranged to 550 900 people and in 2014 slightly dropped to 438 017 people. To sum up, we can therefore say that assistance in both civil and criminal proceedings in 2014 required nearly 578 613 thousand people, which is a non-negligible number, and for this reason, I think that this law would deserve the attention of the Chamber of Deputies, a broad discussion on this subject and its release for further reading, for which I am intercede.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-004-079.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 16 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Václav Votava apologises, from 12.15 a.m. to the rest of the day, and tomorrow, during the entire working day, for working reasons, Mr Jaroslav Klaška apologizes, and from 14 a.m. today, for working reasons, Mr Matěj Fichtner apologizes. I'm asking you if anyone else is joining the general debate. I see no application, in which case I conclude the general debate and ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for consideration to the Constitutional Legal Committee. In connection with the amendment of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies with effect from 1. 3. I propose that we order the bill to be discussed by the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? At this point, I don't see another suggestion. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote. I will read the motion for a resolution: who agrees that the proposal submitted should be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 294; 157 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 128, against no one. I note that this proposal has been approved. [[11.00 hours]] Before continuing the next vote, allow me to welcome the foreign delegation, because the first Vice-President of the House of Representatives of the Parliament of the Republic of Iraq, the Sheikh Humám Hamúdí, with the delegation, has arrived at the guest gallery. Welcome, please. [[Members rise, applause.]] We will therefore continue to vote. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally-legal committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? It's not like that. There was no proposal in the debate to shorten or extend the deadline, in which case I thank you and I conclude the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
