ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u1	2. Law amending Act No. 159/2006 Coll., on Conflict of Interest, as amended, and other related laws /German press 564/14/ - returned by the President of the Republic The opinion of the President of the Republic, stating his opposition to this law, was delivered to you as press 564/15. I'll ask the plaintiff, Minister Chvojka, if he wishes to speak. Based on his movements, I'm guessing so. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I think it would be pointless to recapitulate what both the original draft amendment to the Act on Conflict of Interest is about, and to say what were the amendments that were adopted during the constitutional committee discussions and the mandate and immune. I would just like to comment on the President's veto. The President of the Republic, together with the return of the proposal to the Chamber of Deputies, has published his position, in which he discusses quite fully the reasons for which he vetoed the proposal. The points of the opinion can be summarised in three headings, the first of which is - inadequately justified and supported by amendments through which the proposal has been substantially amended. Secondly, the restrictions on public officials referred to in § 4a, 4b and 4c, i.e. media, public contracts and subsidies, exceed the boundaries of constitutionality and do not, in his opinion, pass the proportionality test. In addition, the provisions of Sections 4b and 4c are contrary to international obligations. The preliminary regulation should have been followed by a constitutional law rather than merely a normal law. And the third complaint or the third circle, using false retroactivity, was interfered with the principles of legitimate expectations associated with the protection of ownership. I would just like to make this point about these circuits. The first one. The amendments relating to Sections 4a, 4b and 4c were accompanied by a justification which was standard under the terms of the Chamber of Deputies and were duly and comprehensively discussed both within the PSP committees and at the plenary session. I think that it is not at all unusual, on the contrary, that it is common for amendments to be read in various committees during the legislative procedure. This was also the case in this law. It's nothing that goes against the Constitution and that's abnormal. On the contrary, it is quite common. And if I remember correctly, the amendments, and not just mine, but the others, were more of a matter of reason and above-standard discussion. If I recall any other bills and amendments, where you have an amendment that has an explanatory report on the scope of two sentences, this was a completely different matter. As regards the conflict with international law, the conflict with Protocol No 12 The Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms cannot come because the Czech Republic has not yet ratified it. In my opinion, the constitutionality of the proposal is respected and the intervention in the rights is balanced by the public interest in eliminating the conflict of interests of political officials and the interest in protecting the democratic rule of law. And last call: false retroactivity. That, in my opinion, is completely illogical. False retroactivity is nothing unusual in current legislation and according to the petitioner the right to property protection will not be affected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u3	Thank you, Minister. And now I'm going to ask the rapporteurs. First, the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, who was a guarantee committee, Mr Vozka - he does not wish. The rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Kovářová - is not present. And the rapporteur of the mandate and immunity committee, Mr Plíšek, does not wish to speak either. Well, in that case, I'm opening up a debate and I have an application for it so far, and that's... With priority rights? Proper. So first, Mr Okamura and then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u4	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by voting on the so-called 'Vote'. lex Babiš says that our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, disagrees with the oligarchization of politics and we also disagree with the results of this government, which is an integral part of the ANO movement. But it is not possible for party secretariats led by Bohuslav Sobotka and Miroslav Kalousek to decide who goes or does not go into politics. We, in our SPD movement, are promoting a direct democracy, a system where politicians are directly elected by citizens and also revocable and have material responsibility. Moreover, the law is incredibly stupid and purposeful pasquil, which does not solve anything in practice. Its aim is not to eliminate conflicts of interest, but only to politically attack one policy. That's not how laws are made. Andrej Babiš will rewrite the shares into a family or solve it in another way and in practice it will have the same effect as it has been. Plus, it doesn't solve the real abuse of government function. Miroslav Kalousek in the past even passed the law that arms contracts must not compete with the Ministry of Defence, but only with private companies, and for years the company benefited from it by his friend Háva. And the state was losing billions. If we want to prevent politicians from taking advantage of public money, little is enough: to impose their revocability and to impose a material responsibility for top politicians in a executive function with the duty to manage the care of a proper economy, such as the managers of firms or mayors. This is the systemic solution proposed by our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, and we have already tabled these laws here. But that is what existing political elites, the biggest corrupters and gangsters in politics, reject. We all have the same right to do business in civil life, it is our human and constitutional right. It is only necessary to add that we must also have an enforceable responsibility. For the above reasons, our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, does not support this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr. Faltýnek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I have been acting on this law for the third time in this House, and I know that my speech is actually unnecessary. I know that most of you are determined to overrule the President's veto, and this bill is set up for one person, Mr. Babiš, to finally approve. I don't want to repeat myself. I have already said most of the arguments against this legal pasquila several times, but let me make a few more comments. I'll start with our Prime Minister's quote. Our Prime Minister, our joint coalition government, from April 17th of last year's Partie on Prima. The quote is: "I just want to say that the law will not work backwards. It should work for newly appointed ministers in the future. That's it, I think, okay." Yes, this is what our Prime Minister said, and a few months later, he fights to have the legislators overrule the president's veto, and the law can already apply to this government. For existing ministers. Mr. Prime Minister, who knew very well in 2013 when he composed this government, who he was sending as Minister of Finance, who was to be his partner, who all the citizens of our country knew what he owned and how he got his hands on this property. And most importantly, who saved his government because of intra-party disputes in the end. Today, of course, he has forgotten what happened in 2013. [[15.00 hours]] Today he doesn't even know what he said last April on television to the entire nation. klidně our opinion, one year before the end of the parliamentary term, in other words, a very successful government turns to its coalition partner and joins Miroslav Kalousek. Miroslav Kalousek asked me how long I would talk about him having a meeting. I told him about half an hour, it's a shame he doesn't listen. Why did that happen, ladies and gentlemen? You know that. To save old order, all to save old ties. This world, built honestly for 25 years, logically, is bothered by Mr. Babiš, he's in the way, he's crashing it, so some lie or knife in the back of a coalition partner has to be overlooked. The desire is so great that we all long for only one thing: if we can't drive him out of the country, we should at least hurt him as much as possible, touch what he's been building his whole life. How else can we describe our zealous efforts to discuss the conflict of interest law as soon as possible, which is directed at one single person and which was created because of Andrej Babiš? After all, this law seems to be one of the most important laws in this parliamentary term. For in any other law, most of us, so that I don't touch anyone, have shown such enthusiasm for their work. Some colleagues wanted to overrule the President's veto so badly that they were willing to convene the House meeting during the holidays. A colleague who's involved is having a good time. Babiš bothers them so much, they'd be happy to cut back on vánoce. Why not go to work on vacation when you have to vote on, like, tightening up gambling or speeding up proceedings under the construction law? All other laws for people are for traditional colleagues all the way to the other dorm, the key is Lex Babiš. The Social Democracy and TOP 09 Workshop Law is a purposeful, hypocritical, demotivating and threatening democracy. Why is it purposeful? Let's ask ourselves the question. After all, the lawmakers themselves during conversations in the galleys The Chambers of Deputies admit that they have drafted amendments to harm Andrej Babiš, that this is the motive for their actions. The only one who admitted it publicly and said it was Petr Fiala, Chairman of the ODS. Why is the novel hypocritical? Let's take a look at each other. We are not all here, but there are a number of politicians sitting among us who have transferred their companies to wives or children, and after the transfer of property rights, these companies have had a rocket increase in income from erary money, from the state budget and budgets of regions and cities. Why is this law demotivating? Because any successful entrepreneur who wants to enter politics will change his mind because he would have to make it difficult to get rid of his own property that he built his whole life and transfer it to other entities. Why is the amendment a threat to democracy? To write laws primarily directed against one person is always wrong, it is a dangerous precedent that undermines our rule of law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is fascinating to see how you begin to deal with conflicts of interest only when you feel threatened by another political entity. Why didn't you solve this problem in the election periods when you ruled? Why didn't you deal with a conflict of interest when ministers sat in governments who turned their businesses into family members, friends and friends? Why didn't you discuss local politicians whose wives were employed by local godfathers? Why didn't you deal with companies that controlled the wives of local politicians and whose sales grew rocketically when their husbands were active in politics? Why didn't you discuss the owners of solar power plants who were sitting in the Chamber of Deputies on vacation with the directors of state companies and lobbyists? I'll remind you of a few of your ex-boyfriends, but I'll remind you of your current colleagues. Minister Bárta, who transferred his company to his brother and planned how a private security agency would control the Ministry of Interior and police forces. And also Minister Řebíček, Drábek, Besser and others. At the time, no one cared that some companies had miraculously increased their revenues and profits after joining politics. Nobody cared, and the law wasn't broken. But it wasn't just the ministers who did that. We also have a number of Members who have transferred their companies to family members. These companies, especially construction companies, began to work and build miraculously. But not for private investors, but for cities, road management and maintenance, the Directorate-General for Customs, Police and other state, regional and municipal institutions. And everything's okay, nobody's dealing with it. We are constantly talking about a conflict of interest and a threat to democracy. For example, the ODS is the loudest advocate of freedom and is fighting a conflict of interest here. At the same time, Mr. Chairman of the MP's club and one of the highest-ranking politicians of the ODS Zbyněk Stanjura owned the company Eskon, owned its shares, then gradually transferred it after being elected. The company traded with the most influential Czech companies such as ČEZ, OKD - we will probably talk about OKD today - but it also had contracts from public authorities and institutions, including the Opava City Council. I don't see how the President can blame Andrej Babiš for a conflict of interest. Karel Schwarzenberg is another such business expert or non-business in public office. When he was Minister of Foreign Affairs, he was and is still the owner of several companies, such as Orlík nad Vltavou, s. r. o., where he has owned almost 100 percent of the company since 1992, which is engaged in agricultural business and which draws subsidies from both European and national sources in the order of millions of crowns. When there was an administrative error, and I was talking about it here last time, but not bad, I merely said so, in drawing subsidies for the restoration of ponds, and when he was to return these subsidies, a colleague from the Government, Mr Kalousek, as Minister of Finance, forgave him this return. [[15.10 hours]] Another expert in ethics and conflict of interest is Mr Václav Votava, a respected colleague. He transferred the construction company he owned to his wife and son. This company was the winner of a number of public contracts. We can see from the statement from the public register that the total value of these realized contracts was around CZK 85 million. It's not much, but isn't that a conflict of interest? What I want to point out is your hypocrisy. You're pretending - in front of the public - you've wanted this law for a long time, but it wasn't the right opportunity. And now she's here. We have Babiš here, so we need to accept the law. Even President Zeman basically repeated what constitutional lawyers think, so much of the Czech public. This law is not designed in general, but it is written against the only person who has begun to threaten the economic interests of traditional political parties. I don't think there's any point in going any further, let the Constitutional Court decide any more. Breach of the principle of equality between business entities, interference with legitimate expectations of rights acquired in good faith or contradiction with EU legal case law, although my colleague Chvojka - I apologize, Minister Chvojka - said there is no contradiction. I assume that we, as an MP, will turn to the Constitutional Court, because today you are actually going to raise your hand for the third time for a law that is already unconstitutional under our court. Even Mr Mihola, chairman of the People's Club, when we spoke, calmly said that it would now be approved with a legislative error, and then it will be corrected, that it is actually no problem. And I'm asking if we're serious. What will the outsiders think of us? But you're, I suppose, one thing, ladies and gentlemen, you've been used to working like this for 25 years, and it's always passed somehow. It's only now that Babiš is here that it's slipping, so you set him up with this law. Finally, colleagues, let me read a very brief statement and the President's arguments which led him to the veto of this legal pasquila. To the veto of this legal pasquila! I don't know if you've all read this, but I believe you have, but let me at least have some brief recapitulation, virtually. state the reasons which led the President to the veto. 1. Sections 4a to 4c, which were not subject to a government bill, were incorporated into the law on the basis of amendments. Their reasoning is based on unsubstantiated assumptions, lacks any concrete arguments, and it is clear that their adoption did not take into account those aspects which should be decisive in the rule of law for the creation and approval of each law. Instead, the effort, as the content of these amendments implies, outweighed the effort to try, through them, to influence the free competition of political parties on which it is subject under the terms of Art. 5 The Constitution of the Czech Republic established a political system. 2. Commands and prohibitions contained in § 4a to 4c affect the freedom of the individual and his fundamental rights, and since the Chamber of Deputies is also bound by the Constitution of the Czech Republic, it is appropriate in this case from the preamble of the Constitution of the Czech Republic and its article. In this regard, the Commission considers that the principle of proportionality in a broader sense, which includes the principles of suitability, need and proportionality in a narrower sense, is one of the fundamental rules governing the functioning of state authority, which is the principle of proportionality in a broader sense, which includes the principles of appropriateness, need and proportionality, and from these aspects the contested legislation should be assessed. 3. Paragraph 4a provides that the public official referred to in Paragraph 2 (a) shall: Member States shall communicate to the Commission the text of the main provisions of national law which they adopt in the field covered by this Directive. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 70 The Constitution of the Czech Republic a member of the Government may not carry out activities the nature of which contradicts the performance of his duties, provided that the details are laid down by law. Pursuant to Section 4 of the Act on Conflict of Interest, until the date of application of the amendment in question, a member of the Government, members of top bodies selected by national administrative authorities, the Czech National Bank, the Supreme Audit Office and from the entry into force of the amendment in question, as well as representatives of government members, heads of the offices of both chambers of Parliament and the Head of the Office of the President of the Republic, the President or member of the Office for the Management of Political Parties and the Political Movement and the Ombudsman and his representative may not: enter into or pursue any other self-employment activity, to be a member of the statutory body, a member of the managing, supervisory or supervisory body of the legal person who carries out business, to be in an employment relationship or similar relationship or in service, and these restrictions do not apply to the management of own property. The contested § 4a exceeds the restrictions contained in § 4, extending them to all public officials as defined in § 2 para. 1 and it follows from it, as well as from the attached amendment to the Act on the Operation of Radio and Television, that no public official may have anything to do with radio or television broadcasting or periodic press. In view of the principle of proportionality in a broader sense, account must be taken of: (a) the principle of suitability that the measure at all must be capable of achieving the intended objective of protecting another fundamental right or public property; it is difficult to imagine that, if the aim of this legislation is to avoid misuse of radio, television, periodic press by public officials, that the media, as their owner or co-owner, will be abused in violation of the public interest, for example. The Deputy Minister, the Head of the Senate Office, the Ombudsman or his representative, and as regards members of the Government, shall lay down the framework for their limitation. 70 Constitutions of the Czech Republic; [[interest]] It is therefore difficult to imagine that a member of the government would have to participate in one of the media in order to communicate through the public information on the performance of his duties, on account of ownership or co-ownership in a manner contrary to the performance of his duties; [[another thing is that a member of the Government is usually also a member or chairman of a political party, but on this point, Article 4 (2) (a) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v)) (v) (v) (v) (v) ……]] (b) the principle of need that, in relation to the fundamental rights and freedoms concerned, it considers that it is only permitted to use the most sensitive of several possible means; even if the above-mentioned public interest is accepted, the legislation is in conflict with Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 21 The Charter, pursuant to which paragraph 1 citizens have the right to participate in the administration of public affairs and under which paragraph 4 citizens have access to elected and other public functions on equal terms. Paragraph 4 is contrary to the constitutional principle of the inviolability of private ownership and, from this point of view, must be considered sufficient and as the most sensitive restriction for public officials contained in Section 4 of the Act; [[15.20 hours]] (c) the principle of proportionality in the narrower sense that it is based on the fact that injury to the fundamental right must not be disproportionate in relation to the intended objective, i.e. measures restricting fundamental rights and freedoms shall not, by their negative consequences, exceed the positives which constitute the public interest in those measures; If the above fundamental rights are to be violated, the intensity of the public interest predominance over these constitutional values would have to be extremely strong and also duly justified, which, however, does not result from the evidence that Members had at the time of the adoption of the law. The adequacy test of § 4a is difficult to pass because it also includes broadcasters who broadcast nothing other than music or educational programmes or publishers focusing on publishing exclusively professional periodic press. 4. Section 4b provides for a prohibition on a commercial company in which a member of the government or the head of another central administrative office or a person controlled by it has a stake of at least 25 per cent, to participate in a procurement procedure under the Public Procurement Act, including the award of a small-scale contract, and Section 4c prohibits, under the same conditions, from providing a subsidy or investment incentive to a commercial company. In view of the principle of proportionality in a broader sense, it must be taken into account that: (a) as regards the principle of suitability, it is probably based on that objective, respectively. the public interest pursued by this legislation is to prevent the public official from using his position in public procurement or in providing investment incentives or subsidies; However, the ability of this legislation to achieve the intended objective is essentially zero, as the procurement procedure is so worked out by the Public Procurement Act that the Minister or the Head of another Central Administration does not have the possibility, without taking a disproportionate risk, to influence this process contrary to the law; This shall apply mutatis mutandis to investment incentives; the organisation set up by the Ministry of Industry and Trade is involved in the assessment and decision-making of investment incentives requests, this Ministry, and with its binding opinions four other ministries, the government decides on requests by law or the Commission, while applying not only the Act on investment incentives and its implementing regulations, but a number of other legislation, including directly applicable EU regulations; the grants for each chapter are contained in the Act on the State Budget for the year in question, approved by the Chamber of Deputies, governed by budgetary rules, specific legislation or internal normative instructions; the relevant ingence of the Minister consists in the issuance of normative instructions, which are then governed by the announcement of subsidy programmes and the decision-making process of granting subsidies in specific cases, with applications being generally collectively, sometimes over-evaluated. The sources of a large proportion of the subsidies are EU funds, and their drawing is governed by an extensive methodology, which is subject to multi-stage control, including by the Commission institutions; (b) the principle of need applies mutatis mutandis to what has been mentioned above in relation to the legislation in question on the principle of suitability; (c) as regards the principle of proportionality in a narrower sense, it is decisive in relation to the legislation in question. Section 4b and 4c are clearly contrary to Article 4b and 4c. Whereas: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 1 "Lists" according to which the ownership of all owners has the same content and protection. While there is no legal claim for obtaining a public contract, investment incentives or subsidies, the legislation adopted, which precludes a certain range of applicants for a public contract, investment incentives or subsidies in advance, creates inequality between commercial companies, is discriminatory for them and clearly disproportionate from the point of view of the constitutional principle. This legislation sets out a situation in which a member of the government must decide whether to become a member of the government or remain a member of the government, and then the trading company in which he has a stake will cease to exist in a competitive environment with all the consequences involved or cease to be a member of the government, or remain a member of the government and transfer its share to another entity. However, the constitutional principle is that a fundamental right can be limited not only in the case of an extremely strong and duly justified public interest, but also in a careful investigation of the substance and meaning of a limited fundamental right, which does not include this legislation. The criterion of 25% of equity also raises significant doubts, both because if a public official has a holding, e.g. 24 per cent, the company may apply for a public contract, investment incentive or subsidy without limitation, whereas with 25% of the public officeholder's equity, the commercial company would not have that option. But, above all, because with 25% of the participation of the public official, not only the public official but also other associates will be reduced to their rights. 5. Section 4b and 4c are also in clear conflict with international treaties by which the Czech Republic is bound, in particular with Protocol No. 12 to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, which is set out in Article 12 (2) of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Article 1 (1) provides that the use of any right conferred by law must be ensured without discrimination, inter alia, on grounds of property or other status; [[in the case at hand, the right to apply for a contract, investment incentive or subsidy]] it is a convention that is part of the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. 6. The justification for the amendments to Sections 4a to 4c of the Act, which, on the basis of specific arguments, would prove a significant superiority of those provisions protected by public interest over the protection of fundamental rights which are affected by those provisions, did not appear in the Chamber of Deputies and was based solely on general arguments not substantiated by any specific arguments. On the other hand, the record from the debate clearly shows that these provisions are aimed at a political competitor in order to weaken him, but the law cannot serve in a democratic society, it cannot be the result of a favour. 7. Even if there were real arguments for the intensive protection of the public interest pursued by Sections 4b and 4c, the question is whether those provisions, which apply without distinction to all members of the government, would not go beyond the scope of Article 4b and 4c. 70 Constitutions of the Czech Republic and whether it does not require regulation by constitutional law and not by ordinary law. At the same time, it must be taken into account that it is an adjustment which obviously has a constitutional dimension because it raises the issue of incompatibility of government membership with the administration of own property, which consists of e.g. the exercise of the rights of a shareholder or shareholder in a trading company. [[without participation in the designated commercial company's bodies]] The constitutional law followed by the ordinary law would then have to be such that it could not be circumvented, which now does not ensure. 8. The Act excludes, in transitional provisions, the application of the prohibitions referred to in Section 4a to public officials who have commenced a public function before the entry into force of Section 4a, and further provides that the procedure for granting a subsidy or investment incentive initiated before the date of application of this amendment will be completed in accordance with existing legislation, or not applicable to them, § 4c. On the other hand, the law does not contain a similar provision in the transitional provisions in respect of § 4b, which means that if a commercial company in which a public official has a legal share becomes a tenderer before the date on which this amendment takes effect, and the procurement procedure is not terminated by the award of a public contract by that date, the contracting authority must be excluded from the procurement procedure. It is probably a generally acceptable so-called. false retroactivity, but it is also linked to the principle of legitimate expectations, the essence of which is the property interest which falls under the protection of Art. Having regard to the proposal from the High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 Additional Protocol to the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Colleagues, colleagues, this was an opinion which justified his veto by the President of the Republic. I am so sorry that I have read all this and that I have abstained from the Chamber of Deputies. There was no obstruction. We have plenty of time. I believe that you will be able to approve this law today, the President's veto overruled, as has already been said several times. However, on my part, the last request. In the event that this does not happen, we are prepared as the YES movement for a rational debate on the conflict of interest law for the next parliamentary term. But I'm sorry, we really don't like that it's a standard made for one person, and most importantly, it's supposed to pay de facto from tomorrow. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u7	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have one factual point here, and that is Mr Votava's remark, and then another duly signed-in to the debate will come forward.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u8	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, fellow Members, I would like to respond to the pathetic, outbursts that Mr Faltýnek, a long-standing member of social democracy, has spoken here. You know, it's quite spicy when a man who is a member of Agrofert's Board of Directors in a statutory body moralizes here and is also chairman of the agricultural committee. Agrofert, as far as I know, has one of the main activities, agriculture. So it's really spicy when he moralizes here. He remembered a lot of people here, including me. He doesn't remember his colleagues who have companies. Of course, that's not appropriate. In 2002, I went to the Chamber of Deputies, that is, into politics, as a third owner of the company, mentioned here by Mr.Faltýnek. And the press asked me before I was elected, how will I act if I'm elected? I said I wouldn't be in the firm, I wouldn't be in the statutory body, and I would transfer my business share, a third share, to my son. That's what I did, and I haven't been in a company in 15 years. I'm still her employee, of course. Otherwise, I'm not the owner of the company. I'm not getting any pay out of it, I'm not getting any benefits from it. Nothing like that. I think Minister Babiš could have done the same. He could've, when he went into politics, said, "I'll transfer it to someone... [[Attention on time.]] He wants to transfer it to the trust fund now. It's basically the same thing as transferring it to his wife. [[Attention on time.]] So thank you. That's for the record, because my colleague, Faltýnek, is really saying pathetic things here. Poor things.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u9	Is that a factual point? Mr. Faltýnek, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u10	Friends, it's a shame we don't listen to each other. That's too bad. Of course, there are many people in the ranks of Members who have companies. In the ranks of our communists, all of them. I didn't criticize that. I criticized companies that were transferred to family members and did business with the state and with ammunition. And that's not pathetic. If I wanted to stall, Mr. Colleague, I could read 20 public contracts here. Why would I do that? Why would I do that? I just said it's hypocritical that you guys haven't dealt with it the whole time. And now that Babiš is here, you're just dealing with it. That's all. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your point of view. I'm registering proper applications. Mr Fiedler will now appear. Mr Pilný, duly registered, will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It seemed from the beginning that there would probably be no big discussion about this law, because they are more or less all determined how they will vote, but it may not be so. There's a growing number of names on the board, and maybe the discussion will be longer. I think it'll be good that it'll be good for the cause. I'm afraid I'll confirm President Faltýnek's words that it's a shame we don't listen to each other much. It's good to hear what they say sometimes. I'm trying to do it. And it was one of my new year's wishes, which I put in the debate on the Parliamentary Sheets, that I wish all politicians from all the political parties of the opposition and the coalition to listen more to each other. They attacked each other less, respected each other a little bit more, and didn't just care about such strictly exclusive attitudes - everything is wrong or everything is good. Mutual tolerance and respect are sometimes for the benefit of the cause. Many of the arguments that one might say on this subject have already been raised here by my previous speakers. However, I will remember one thing. I can relate to the content and the idea of the law. I understand the principles that lead to him. But the turning point for me, where I hesitated how to stand up to it, was absolutely clear at the moment when it was said here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies - it was already said by President Faltýnek, it was the President of the ODS Petr Fiala, who said yes, it is set on one person. That's when I said look out, so this really is a little weird. I don't think we should be doing this by sewing laws on one person. A lot of cases have been named here. I'm not gonna repeat them for nothing. Perhaps I could list others when things have been done in the past that have been strange. The companies were owned by someone else, but they were friendly, and there were contracts coming in. That was also the reason why I became involved in politics in 2012 because I did not like the situation as it was. And if all of this was here, and now I think I wasn't one of the Members who had been sitting here and not talking. I'm here in the Chamber of Deputies having a bit of a speech, so I guess from my previous performances, it's clear to you that I'm no member of Mr. Andrej Babiš's fan club. However, I'm an unattached MP today. I don't belong to any of the MPs. I'm not a member of any political group, no party, no movement. I'm a completely independent person, and I'm having a great time. I am not bound by any party responsibilities or political, and I can really say freely what I think, how I look at things. And I enjoy this advantage very much. That I can look at things completely unbiased today, I have no ties. I'm not even an orthodox opposition. I'm not even a coalition, and I'm enjoying it. I think that really, and it was said here, once again, I think it was President Faltýnek, that the Prime Minister said that there would be no retroactivity. And now it's basically retroactivity. And I will be very happy when the new Minister Chvojka is not present at the moment, who commented on retroactivity, that the position he presented here will still be consistent. That he wouldn't pay today or pay any other day, as we've witnessed many times. But I have one thing to say to my colleagues who are sitting here in front of me. You're complaining about how coalition partners treat you today. Don't be mad at me, colleagues, I won't address you individually, in general, all of you. You were in government with them. Who you've chosen, now... and a number of laws you've also voted together. Don't be mad at me. So today you're here - I know the election fight is starting, that you're going to be in October and you're going to fight each other. But don't be mad at me, you've got to figure out who you're in the coalition with and what you've voted for together. That's right. And I didn't always like what you guys said. I thought it was very reasonable to hear what was read here - the President's justification for vetoing the law. And it's a shame that many of you didn't listen to it, because there were a lot of reasonable arguments about why we should think about it. When this law was discussed by the Chamber of Deputies, it was in the third reading, so colleague Schwarz suggested his return to second reading. I was, perhaps for you some surprisingly, the only one who joined it and supported the proposal to return to second reading, because I think there are a number of things that might still have thought through, to think about. But most of all, I really think it's right for this to start to apply from the new term. So that the rules that need to be adjusted and tightened up to consider them first, because some of the things that have been said here, the arguments, are really very logical and pragmatic, why certain things should be adjusted. [[15.40 hours]] And it really is if, as has been publicly granted here in the House and in the gallows and elsewhere, it is directed against one person and in the course of the parliamentary term, it is not entirely correct in my opinion. If - and I repeat again, do you know that I am not a fan of Andrej Babiš, but if his movement arose in 2011, why, at that time, laws were no longer passed for it, or laws were adopted so that when it comes to politics, this could not actually be created? At that time, enormous efforts were devoted to declaring a restitution tunnel. Perhaps it would have been wiser, colleagues, if you had thought back then about how to make a more precise law on conflict of interest. I will vote the same way I voted. I have always abstained from voting in the two previous votes because I agree with the idea of this law that the rules need to be clearly defined, defined and maybe tightened up, I agree, but I have reservations about the form of implementation, the time at which this is implemented and the mistakes to be made. One last thing. I'm about to conclude that I don't talk that long. I watched some television shows carefully, and there Mr. Vice Prime Minister Babiš made it clear that he would respect what would happen if the House overruled the President's veto, but let us not forget that he clearly said that he would enforce his rights. What rights will he claim? I think it's very likely if it's the Constitutional Court - because it's all going to end up there - they'll say it's unconstitutional, even the damage they've done. What will they be, to what extent? Today at 17 o'clock we will discuss - the Prime Minister here is - the case of OKD, where enormous damage has already been caused. Let's do a simple calculation - 44,000 flats, fictitious imaginary, not exaggerated, the price of 500 grand per apartment, if we multiply it, it's 22 billion. Added to that, it's another billion on top. So only the apartments had an estimate, and I don't think I'm exaggerating that the value of the apartment is 500,000, even then, only the apartments were worth over 20 billion. And through Mr President, you, Prime Minister, have sold the rest for those crippled few billions, 4.1 or what it was. I know you were explaining here that you were following up on the history that the ODS claimed to have caused, which made your explanation quite credible at the time. But don't let me interfere with the program after 5:00, but here I say, there was some damage back then. After all, social democracy has experience with execution, when it has no respect for any legal environment or legal interpretation, and today it has problems with the People's House. I think it is not entirely reasonable to give the possibility of how the current surplus from last year's management, the less than 62 billion, as we may have to give it in part to cover some costs. Are you really all so sure that this will take place in peace and that no one will recover any damage? I am not so sure about this, and therefore I will vote in the same way again, I will abstain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u13	Thank you, too. I note one factual remark made by Mr Plzák. Before I give you my word, I'll read your apologies. Today, for health reasons from 15.40 to the end of the meeting, Mr Zdeněk Soukup apologizes and from 16 a.m. to the end of the day, due to urgent work obligations within the department, Mr Milan Chovanec apologizes. And one more announcement, Mr Vondráček will vote with replacement card number 15. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u14	Thank you, Mr President. A serious colleague, colleagues, colleague Fiedler here gave me one thought to see if there would be any damage. I listened very carefully to President Faltýnek's speech and listened very carefully because I did not know those arguments, what the President justified his position. And I saw that one of the authors of these controversial amendments, the current Minister of Legislation, was not taking notes. I assume he knows the arguments. And I would really like you to step out and explain to me what the President is wrong about. That means if the law passes, what the president is wrong about and what the arguments are odd about. As a lawyer, as Minister of Law, please, Minister, explain to me what the President is wrong about. Repel his arguments, and then I may somehow understand why the House is voting for the law, and why it is certain that there will be no damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u15	Thank you, too. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u16	I think that this discussion is basically pointless because I don't think that I'm going to answer my colleague's question, but first he wouldn't listen to me because at first I said there were three circuits and I reacted to each of those circuits. I do not consider it an illogical argument that something has been added to the law on the basis of an amendment. As I said, every law here, almost every law, is amended by amendments, and I think that few of the laws to which amendments have been added have been so justified, and so often and quickly, sorry, briefly, in detail, long, nine months - I am a little confused - the amendments have been discussed for nine months, firstly, on the constitutionally legal committee, secondly, each of these amendments has been very detailed and long-standing. So a constitutional complaint or veto, with the law being regulated, that something was delivered there by the amendment, is, of course, nonsense. [[There's noise in the room.]] Another argument that the law somehow deprives someone of the right to something, come on - if you have read the interview with Professor Jelínek, he says it exactly. He regulates every law or prevents someone from doing something or gives him a duty. Professor Válková almost nods with that, I believe she agrees with me. The Road Traffic Act says you have to drive in the village within 50 km of the hour. The law is denying you some kind of right because you would drive maybe 80 km or so. So that's another pointless argument. And there's a lot more arguments. But I contradicted them in the beginning -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u17	I apologize, Minister, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down so that you understand what the Minister is saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u18	I've been contradicting them at the beginning, and like I said, I don't think you'd change your mind because you're a member - am I right? - where I think you have a binding vote and you must vote against this law. I do not believe that all 47 Members of your movement have the same opinion. That rarely happens. Don't tell me if I give you an answer here, you'll change your mind. I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u19	Thank you. Mr Pilný is now duly registered. Mr Vondráček, Mr Grospič, etc. will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Maybe a little useless speech again, but I, in addition to making a parliamentary pledge here, also thought I'd defend the interests of common sense until I had it myself. First thing I'd like to point out. I'm not here to discuss the legislative and factual errors that are in the amendment to the law, that's probably the Constitutional Court thing, but let me just mention the name. It's an amendment to the conflict of interest law. That's not Lex Babiš. Lex Babiš turned him into a majority of the Chamber of Deputies. The conflict of interest is a category that is completely binary, it is like a woman can not be little, or very pregnant, either is or is not, so the conflict of interest either is or is not. It is absurd and contrary to the principles of common sense to refer to one category of people, even one minister who happens to mind now. That's my first point. The second point concerns the fact that the House, as has been mentioned several times before, is a sovereign, but cannot usurp the right to correct voters' opinion. The voters who elected Andrej Babiš here to the Chamber of Deputies knew very precisely what Andrej Babiš owned, what kind of man he was and so on, and that's why they may have chosen him here as a representative of something that wasn't actually here in the House. So I think that - it has already happened in the regional elections, when voters' opinion has also been corrected by side actions on beer etc., it has been a rather unusual decision, but it seems that the ANO movement is beginning to mind so much that we can consider this strategy to be proven and constantly enforced. Third thing. If we are to correct the conflict of interest law, we should remove its toothlessness. The conflict of interest, and it has already been mentioned here, ten times, a hundred times in the past was violated and it is equally violated, it is violated on a municipal, regional and other level. Everyone's gonna develop out of it somehow. And if we wanted to correct the law, then we should fix it in a way that doesn't happen, because these people probably don't have basic ethics. I would just like to point out that I belong to a category of people who don't own a company, so obviously, in this case, I have no conflict of interest, nor do I see any danger for me. So you could say we're accepting something that lost the original meaning that the novel was supposed to have. It has fundamental legislative, legal and factual flaws, but apparently today the majority of the Chamber of Deputies, based on a simple strategy - all against ANO and all against Babiš - overrules the President's veto, which is based solely on factual considerations and factual points. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u21	Thank you, too. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u22	I have to respond to some of the ANO colleagues who repeat for three quarters of a year that this is a law directed against one person. I'm not gonna repeat that term. And then, in their analysis from the Parliamentary Institute, they argue that the scope, the impact on those entities, is too broad. That means they once say "it's coming to our boss," then they say again, and coincidentally on the day when the coalition board is supposed to be on this law that it's too wide a circle of people. That means, all of a sudden, it bothers me in December that it affects the chieftains, the mayors, the senators, the members of the Czech National Bank. Similarly, a member of the Czech National Bank should not publish a magazine e.g. About finance? So is the law aimed at his person, one, or is it aimed at too wide a circle of people? What is it, then? I wonder what that's like. Is it too wide or for one person? I see a contradiction in that, if you would explain it to me, Mr Pilný, through the President. So tell me, is it for one person or for too wide a circle of people? Who's it for, then?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u23	Thank you. Another duly registered member is Mr Vondráček, Mr Grospič will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Actually, I can pick it up fluently. Some questions have been raised here, and my contribution to them will be fluent, because, whether someone likes it or dislikes it, in the area of fundamental rights, the law can only lay down what the constitutional order allows him to do. And I do not accept the opinion presented by a colleague here about the Czech National Bank and so on, but we have to see what is in the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. I have very much considered and considered the extent to which my contribution should be, because I have counted it, I think for the fourth time, even once more than Mr Faltýnek, because I have also spoken at second reading, and I have had a rather turbulent discussion on this committee's premises, and of course I do not want to repeat myself. I had eight A4 pages set up last time, and I finally used about half of it. I did the same thing today. I will just point out a few points, use my previous speakers here to quote the President's veto and that the main arguments have been raised, and I will only ask a few fundamental questions. Firstly, it concerns the restriction on the right of business, which was also highlighted by the President in that reasoning, and we may not have stressed it enough in the previous contributions. The right to entrepreneurship is guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, I believe it is Article 26. The Constitution allows for restrictions on the business of government members in the event of a legitimate objective and only in the most delicate way possible, that is the fundamental principle. However, the Constitution allows for restrictions on the business of members of the Government. Then the proportionality test follows whether or not the method is adequate in this case. However, in the case of municipal representatives, in the case of Members, in the case of Senators, the Constitution only allows limitations on certain incompatible functions by ordinary law, but not activity. We're missing the constitutional authority here. Yet the unfortunate § 4a, which we will be voting on at the moment, contains restrictions on the activities of this group. I'm following up on what's too broad or a tight group. I insist here that the law does not constitute an unconstitutional restriction on the right of Members and Senators without constitutional authority. And given that when we overruled the return of that law to the Senate, there was basically no discussion here, in fact, we, the members of the ANO movement, did not receive any answers, so I am asking a question after Mr Plzák's example, and I think that without an answer, how the petitioners are taking it - and we have a certain higher power here, in fact, we have a double speaker, because, on the one hand, doktor Chvojka is here as a minister who is presenting the proposal and he himself is the author of the amendment that I am talking about - without answering this question, we cannot, as Members, vote responsibly without answering. So how do they imagine it, how is it possible that without the Constitution's authority, we are limiting the fundamental right to entrepreneurship here. Secondly, a breach of the right of ownership, which has already been discussed quite widely, but I would take advantage of the fact that new contributions to various media have reappeared, we have a justification for the presidential veto. This right is also guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, but there is no constitutional mandate to restrict ownership. And it doesn't matter if it's ownership of events, business shares, land or real estate. The ownership is still the same, it is a very strong right and it is one of the most fundamental rights that is protected by constitutional order. Of course, the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms allows for restrictions on ownership, but only for reasons of public interest. And I don't think that's gonna stand up to this criterion, so it would have to be expropriation for compensation. But I'm sorry, the Constitution really doesn't expect some people to have anything and some people can't have something. And it doesn't matter if someone's rich or poor, you just can't create categories of people. Do you know what a fair solution would be or what the Constitution would allow? To expropriate all televisions, to expropriate all television broadcasts, and that such media could only be owned by the state and by those concerned who would lose the media, to pay adequate compensation. That's constitutionally conformal. But you can't tell someone that they can't have something and someone can. And I would also like to hear the answers of the petitioners, as they thought, and where they think the Constitution gives them the right to limit ownership. I would demonstrate the illegitimate nature of this provision on one more thing. After all, we know that political parties can own the media, even there are party newspapers. After all, they are political parties who primarily seek to share power and generate public officials. In fact, the party may own the media, but its chairman, who will be a public official, no more. So it would be appropriate to stand up to this and hear the answer as to how it is possible that a political party may act in public space as the owner of the media, but the member of the government we are talking about and without whose name there is no article, because otherwise the whole law lacks meaning, it cannot own. [[16.00 hours]] A colleague of mine reminded me of what I didn't even remember, although I had passed an exam at the law school from the Czech history of the state and the law that behind Austria-Hungary and Czechoslovakia, i.e. the first Republic, it was quite common for party representatives to own newspapers or media, because political parties in the first Republic did not have legal personality. They couldn't own anything, they just didn't have a personality. And so they were the leaders of those parties who owned it. And that, of course, can be today. There might be some sort of sidekick who owns a TV for his side. You can't stop that. And this law doesn't prevent it either, and it doesn't actually solve the core problem, what it actually means from the point of view of those who want to vote in favour of this law is a conflict of interest. Three. I would like to briefly mention the breach of legitimate expectations, and that there has been an unexpected change in the terms of public office. We are guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms, and I stress, without distinction of property, that we have equal access to political functions, elected and others. Equal access. It is clear to me that once in the past this rule was created here to protect the economically weaker, the poorer, but it must be true in general, they must protect the rich exactly the same way, otherwise it lacks meaning, otherwise you only replace one elite with the other elite. We've been through this before. Of course, here we can say it, the vast majority of public officials will not be affected by this law. This law has been unilaterally directed against Andrej Babiš since the beginning. I've done a lot of work, I've looked at various articles of constitutional lawyers. Not a single article without the name of Babiš, or the words of Agrofert, has passed because it is very difficult to defend the law if you do not use it directly as an example. Because when we talk about, for example, § 4b and 4c, which is access to public contracts and subsidies, how can the Minister of Human Rights and Legislation influence a public contract in the field of gardening for a city? It's almost impossible. We've got some protection here, we've got some legislation on public procurement. And, of course, if there were any disruptions, he wouldn't be involved, he would be expelled. But here I am referring to what I said when the Senate returned it. The European case-law is built so that everyone should have the right to defend themselves and to prove that they do not have a specific conflict of interest. But here you are introducing a flat-rate potential conflict of interest, which must be punished for good. I have a reservation on this because I do not regard this proposal as a general normative act, as required by the law, but as an individual legal act aimed against one person, and that is why it is rightly called lex Babiš. And it wasn't us who started using that shortcut, it's a shortcut for the press. I don't think we'd be able to rename it by now, we'd hardly think of another name. But the press didn't make it up out of clean water. He really is an individual act directed against the President of the YES movement. I would like to mention one thing in this context that has not yet been mentioned. I would like to quote a sentence that the Constitutional Court once said, and oddly enough, it was in the case of Melčák, when the Constitutional Court said: The Constitutional Law must be general and must not have the character of an ad hoc individual act. If that is how the Constitutional Court expressed its view in the Constitutional Law, this is the case with the ordinary, unconstitutional law. With these, as Members, we should respect some rules and adopt abstract legal standards that will last here for 20 years without change, and not that we will focus here on specific demand and electoral struggle and adopt a law that we know from the outset is wrong and incompatible with the Constitution. That is why I would like to be answered by this question, how is it possible, when we know that the Constitutional Court views this way, when we know that we have to adopt laws with some responsibility, so here an individual legal act is adopted. This is not part of the original proposal. The section A, which I am talking about, is, of course, the proposal of Mr Chvojka, who has been accepted and enforced in accordance with the leadership of the ČSSD, certainly in accordance with and after consultation with the President, our Prime Minister. I would like to mention one thing in this matter. In criminal law, there is a principle called ultima ratio. She's directly incarnated in the Penal Code. This means that criminal repression or regulation can only be applied if it has not been possible to achieve redress in any other way. But this principle will apply throughout the area of law and also in the legislative process. And social democracy if it has such a problem with the conflict of interests of our President, it has had a number of other instruments that it could have used before it began to change the rule of law with its amendment. I mean... the adoption of a law in a situation where a coalition contract didn't have to be concluded when it was such a problem. Andrej Babiš didn't have to become a member of the government. A member of the government may be dismissed. There's just a number of question marks I'd like to answer. If the Prime Minister resents the media ownership of Andrej Babiš as a member of the government, he could simply have prevented it from being proposed for or withdrawn by a member of the government. But if the ČSSD has ruled over three years thanks to the coalition with the ANO movement and its chairman and none of this has happened, it is clear that the reason for lex Babiš is different, and I rightly consider it an attempt to influence the election competition, which has no support in the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. This motive may be denied, obscured, but in view of how the debate has been going on so far, I consider it quite clear from my point of view. Four. Violation of third parties' rights. I have already mentioned this issue in the post when the press returned the Senate to us, but the President summed it up very much, I would say, in a clear way and I would like to respond to the situation that is now. Of course, I can afford to do so after Mr Faltýnek quoted the whole reason for referring to it and not returning to the legal argument again. But I would like to stress again for everyone who can still listen to me and perceive me: The important thing is that not only the official, that member of the government, but also the company, where he is a minority owner, is hit by the associates and both the company and the companion, they have no legal tool to do something about it. This minority share of maybe 25 percent can really become an inheritance, or it can simply be partners, shareholders, when one of them is successful and becomes a member of the government, and the company will do nothing about it and it will affect not only the company and the partners, it will affect the workers too, it will affect those who acquire employment there. The consequences may be totally winding up for the partners. It may be a company that employs disabled people and receives subsidies from the employment office, and if this situation occurs, it will probably have to end, and this situation will also affect the disabled employees. These are all legitimate questions that have not been addressed, because we have adopted this law in a wild way as part of the second reading of the parliamentary proposals submitted. I consider this fundamental impact to be so fundamental that I must consider this whole proposal to be illegitimate, inconsiderate, and therefore contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic and the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. And it's up to the petitioner to disprove this argument so that we don't turn out like when the Senate gave it back to us, that we, from the ANO movement, were kind of talking to ourselves in the middle, and no one was discussing it with us. [[16.10 hours]] What can I say in conclusion? Of course, I'm glad we had the opportunity to hear the parliamentary pledge today. It just happened by coincidence because of our new colleague. But--did anyone listen? He promised to honor the Constitution of the Czech Republic and to execute his mandate in the interests of all the people. That means rich and poor, everyone. And he must honor the Constitution. I would ask all those who want to vote today, as they are going to vote, to try to revive their promise internally, and to think again about what they're going to do. The Constitutional Court is not an appeal body of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate. That's not an appeal. That's our responsibility as legislators, so we don't violate the Constitution here. We promised. And we have the strength to fix it. I don't like to be pathetic, I don't do it, but here I really raise my right hand and offer as a gesture, if there really is such a social demand, if you really see it as such a problem, let's solve it immediately and let's work out together a proposal that gives head and heel and solves a problem that can't easily be avoided, with one legal act that lasts 20 years and which will really do something, and not here these three problematic paragraphs. I suppose, in the course of one month, I will try to organise an expert seminar here at the House's premises, which, on the basis of the evidence, will be the basis of this law, no matter how it turns out, but which will focus on the fact that legislation should be of a general normative nature and should not adopt laws here for one person. So in conclusion, I implore you, not on your knees, please very much, consider once as you vote. Let's try to be responsible. Let's not leave it to the judges of the Constitutional Court, because everyone in this room knows about the delivery times. We can learn from the proposal to repeal the e-booking sales bill, which has been there for some time now, I don't know exactly. But the court is still investigating. This means that if we adopt this standard, it will certainly start to apply and will be effective and the damage will be done. And we do not know what and how the constitutional order of the Czech Republic will be violated. So once again, maybe for the fourth time, maybe the fifth time, maybe we've discussed it twice at the D.A.P.P., so for the sixth time, please let common sense win over the election competition, and I'm done. Thank you. And I'm asking for answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u25	Thank you. Before I give you my word, Minister, I have one factual remark from Mr Plzák. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u26	Thank you. I'm glad the Minister is going to the speaker's desk because I have one more question for him. I don't know if I'm going to see him here arguing with the arguments the President has made in his reasoning. I haven't heard those arguments from you. Don't be mad at me. I misheard. You said something about 50s, but they apply to everyone, they're not just for someone. Maybe for someone, but of course he breaks the rules and then gets a ticket. But it has been said here that we can limit individual rights if it requires public interest. I was looking for another matter where public interest is legally defined. I didn't find it. Maybe I'm wrong. I'm not a lawyer. But if you would still like to argue with your colleague Vondráček, could you explain to me how the legal public interest is defined? I'd be very happy to receive an answer from you as Minister of Legislation and as a lawyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u27	Thank you. Just a moment longer, Minister, one more point of fact, Mr Stupčuk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I just want to react briefly to what my colleague Vondráček said. A colleague of Vondráček may be right, but our legal order is based on the fact that the control of constitutionality of approved laws is a follow-up, not a preliminary one, as some other states have. And at this point, it's basically your subjective opinion that the law can be unconstitutional, nothing else. There's some standard legislative process going on here. I'm sure we can all have a different opinion about this. I consider it a fundamental conflict of opinion to consider the issue of proportionality. And I really can't say seriously here how the Constitutional Court will decide on any proposal to review the constitutionality of this law. But as a lawyer who also has some sense of law enforcement and, let's say, some proportionality of constitutional values, I'm not of the opinion that the law is contrary to the Constitution. But I say again, it is my subjective opinion, as it is the subjective view of the opposite colleague Vondráček. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u29	Thank you. Another factual remark by Mr Vondráček. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. Now I guess I'll surprise you. I fully agree with my colleague Stupčuk. Yes, the only authority in this country to assess constitutionality is the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, they're just people too, they're judges who come from the academic sphere, from the judiciary. And, of course, they may have an otherwise developed sense of how much they value the right to protect business versus other fundamental rights. And that assessment is up to them. But I said it wasn't an appeal body. Let's approve and give it to them. The responsibility is up to us, primarily. Especially since it's going to take a year for it to come to the Constitutional Court. So I was calling for increased responsibility here, and the arguments are serious, and I asked specific questions a moment ago. And if you think we can do that in this debate, remove these serious constitutional doubts, I don't think so. I think that since the doubts are already confirmed from several sources, including the President's statement of reasons, we must take them very seriously and not minimize them. And don't take it arithmetically, as I learned from the media that we just overrule it, there's enough of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u31	Thank you. Mr Janulík's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u32	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I think it is clear to me as a legal layman. I see here that public interest and party interest have been confused, which seems very clear to me. After all, this proved to be the case in the last vote, and it is likely that today, when, in a rare agreement, all established political parties will vote in favour. So that's a clear mix-up of public and political interest, party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u33	Thank you. Now, therefore, with priority rights, the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'll start from the end. If I don't answer something, I'm sorry, we can talk about this later. What is public interest in this case? I think it's very simple. Public interest is interest in the free competition of political parties. There's no doubt about it. What else would it be in this case? Public interest. I think the public interest is to avoid the fact that one party will have a person who owns the media. And it's about the competitive unequal environment. An uneven environment! If you want to compete as a party with someone who owns the media, you just can't compete with him! Because you don't own the media. Especially if it was earlier e.g. a renowned diary and a lot of people still think he's writing independently. And now I mean it very generally. I'm not talking about a particular person, a particular journal. That's just the way it is! Public interest in this case is quite clear. We need the competition to be equal, and not to be distorted by someone's own media, a minister who then writes about himself as good as he is, and he writes about other ministers from another side about how bad they are. That's the public interest, that's easy. I almost cried about what my colleague Vondráček asked me here - and I love him very much otherwise, and I will vote for him as Vice-President of the House tomorrow. He's a very smart person I've always agreed with about everything, and we've both kept our word. But dear Radek through the Vice-President, nine months later, when the law was being discussed on the floor of the Constitutional Legal Committee, you didn't say a word. You left those questions for today. It's interesting. And I'm just gonna answer some of them, maybe not some of them. But at that time, you want to do a seminar after this law passes. Why didn't you do it while the law was under discussion? I think it's smiling! [[16.20 hours]] I also find it smiling when my colleague Vondráček, as a lawyer and lawyer, says that this is an individual administrative act. We here as the House accept individual administrative acts? The law is a generally binding legal standard that applies absolutely to anyone who gets into the same situation. So is the law directed against one person, as you constantly claim, or is it aimed at, and, in your opinion, negatively, positively, against mayors who cannot own the media, against government officials who cannot own the media, against senators who cannot own the media, against members of the Czech National Bank who will not be able to own the media? I think it's right. But in that case, the law is not an individual administrative act, even if we imagined it in some fantasy, but a generally binding legal standard, because it aims at a generally binding circle of people that this law can touch if they get into the same situation. I think it's simple, and I'm almost embarrassed to have to answer such questions. Property law is not absolute, the rule of law contains a number of restrictions on ownership. This restriction, I repeat, is in the public interest and everyone has a choice. And we have a lot of restrictions in the public interest. I am sorry that this is why we have to adopt the law, but I think it is in the interests of transparency of political life in this state. Regarding the question why a newspaper can own a party and why not a company or a legal or natural person. Because parties are regulated by a special law. It's clear there! That's just a completely different set of subjects. I'm surprised I have to answer that question. It's obvious. How can a lawyer ask that? Protection of legitimate expectations is not absolute, it cannot be argued with in this case. This isn't about anything unconstitutional. What Mr Plíšek has put forward concerns the selection procedures for the future, there is nothing unconstitutional. What's unconstitutional about that, krist? And it is a matter for every state, as the conflict of interest adjusts, there is no European regulation. I hope I answered everything. What I didn't answer, I'll answer later. But I'm pointing out one thing, and it needs to be repeated. The YES movement for the entire nine months when the law was discussed last year did not say anything on the constitutional law committee except that it is lex, did not raise a single relevant objection, the only proposal that would somehow be rational - let's adjust it somehow. A few rational proposals were made by colleague Vondráček in December when we were at the Faculty of Law, where he had quite good ideas that could be adapted to the bill. Why didn't you say so in nine months? The YES movement repeated over and over again that it was lex, but otherwise it didn't say anything. And I'm going to say one last thing in conclusion, which is absolutely essential. You don't care how the law regulates the media! I think you would accept that a person in a public position cannot own the media. But the other thing that bothers you is that the law makes it harder for some firms, it means for companies that own a public office, that they can't just suck money out of the public budget. That's it! That's easy. The media doesn't bother you that much. If the media fell out, I think you'd be okay with it after that year's discussion. But that's what bothers you. As Jindřich Šídlo wrote, the last sentence that basically said what Mr Babiš said: "The law of conflict of interest is wrong because it damages my companies." That's the only thing that bothers you. A person in conflict of interest has to deal with property somehow. Maybe it'll give him some work, maybe it'll cost him some money, but morally, that's right. A member of the government should not own the media. A member of the government should not be involved in public procurement. I understand you're upset. Excuse me? [[Ambassador Faltynek speaks off the microphone.]] But that's just the way it is. And it's natural in every normal state. Colleague Vondráček, I believe I have answered everything. What I didn't answer, we can talk about it later. I'm sorry you haven't asked a single question in a year when the law was under discussion. You keep saying the same thing today, but otherwise you didn't say anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u35	Thank you. I'm registering a few factual remarks. First of all, Mr Plzák, then Mr Vondráček and other factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u36	Minister, I'm sorry, but I'm listening to you very closely and carefully, but I don't think you're listening to me. I asked you if the public interest was legally defined somewhere. If we want to significantly limit someone in the interest of the public interest, if there is a legal definition. You didn't answer my question. As you put it, so the public interest is to keep it nice so it doesn't freeze too much so it doesn't rain too much so we all love each other. You think that's public interest. I'm interested in the legal definition. If you don't know her, tell her you don't know or that she doesn't exist. I don't care. I was just asking for this. Now that you've mentioned the factors that it all falls the same way that the media can't have them from the commander down to the mayor. But why can public officials own companies that can benefit from subsidies? Why doesn't this apply to them? Tell me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u37	Thank you. Are you reporting with priority rights? In that case, you must wait, because I must first give the words of Members reporting with factual remarks. Mr Vondráček, then Mr Fiedler. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u38	Thank you, I'll be moving exactly within the limits of factual remarks. Something positive first. I like the Minister, too, and I'm rooting for his ministerial work. I'm glad we always agreed on everything. I didn't say administrative act, I said legal act. I hope I didn't misunderstand. But a legal individual act. As for the follow-up question, I had it when you started on those pages. However, I am not aware that any legal standard would then modify that when the party owns the medium, that the medium must inform it objectively and so on. It's just the same case as when it belongs to someone. Moreover, I really refer to the justification of the presidential veto, which clearly states the arguments that Mr Pilný, by the way, also said when we were discussing this in the third reading. Nowadays, the media can control themselves in a completely different way and may not own themselves. This ownership is the least convenient way to influence what the media write. The minister himself once again mentioned a diary with a large load. The problem is that the law forbids me, as Members, to have a numismatic occasional. It didn't work. And that we didn't say it before. We used to fight against the original version of § 4a, which limited ownership as at all the right to business and ownership. And that's where we succeeded. The argument is evolving. Luckily, we have a stew record, and I've said these things repeatedly. Even at the law school, where we stood apart from ourselves with the Minister, I said that companies, associates, and, ultimately, employees would be damaged. And here, for example, we're talking about 30,000 employees of Agrofert.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u39	Thank you. I'm registering you all, but in the order in which you signed up. Now, with Mr Fiedler's point of view. Mr Hájek, after Mr Faltýnek, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u40	Thank you for the floor. As the Minister for Legislation, fellow Member Chvojka, has said here, through Mr President Minister, there is such a big difference as to whether someone clearly owns a medium and is clearly a member of the government and a person who is an important sponsor of a particular political party, openly declaring his favour of this political party, his own medium, is there any fundamental difference in how it affects the media in favour of the political party or the people's thinking in question? There's a difference. Yes, he's not the direct owner. Ironically, I'm going to say that what Minister Babiš is doing here is at least transparent, that we all know that. Now, a question I've already asked once, and I haven't gotten an answer. The Prime Minister is still here, so I will repeat this, through the President, Prime Minister: How will it be if the Constitutional Court accepts the complaint either by the President or by the ANO movement and by the Vice Prime Minister Babiš, as he declares, will claim his rights and likely damage? What's it gonna be then? [[16.30 hours]] I didn't get an answer on how much damage there is or how much damage you're sure this isn't gonna happen. I have serious doubts about the certainty. I said the reasons before. And what kind of experience does your party have with executions and how it is when someone, and I say, preaches water and has to drink water, so I would like to ask the question of how it will be if Mr. Babiš follows what he declares and claims his rights or damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u41	Thank you, too. Another factual point by Mr Hájek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u42	Good afternoon, Mr President, Prime Minister, Madam Secretary. I have also listened to the Minister for Legislation here, who has said that the main objective is to create the same conditions for competition between political parties. So what I'm asking is, when he's the Minister of Legislation, he's gone somewhere... [[He's present.]] He listens to me. So if we're going to take the same subway, we should create the same conditions for athletes to compete on the same level. This means how Baník Ostrava finds out, who has a budget ten times smaller than Plzeň or Sparta. Do Banik footballers have the same level playing ground as Pilsen or Sparta footballers? They don't! Then how can they compete on the same level, on the same level? The same applies to culture, health care. Why don't we ensure a level playing field for citizens, for health care? We have state hospitals, we have private hospitals, and with this logic, a citizen should ask the same conditions everywhere to have equal treatment conditions. So maybe these are the ideas for your work as Minister of Legislation again, if we create the same conditions for everyone. That's what I experienced before 1989, when the same conditions were created for everyone. Well, if that's the target, then I don't want to be there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u43	Thank you, too. I'm now registering two applications with priority rights. First Minister, Mr. Faltýnek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u44	We're already spinning a little bit in circles, and I have the impression that the whole discussion that some people in past readings didn't have was to - because at 5 pm we have another point to stretch it out and this point didn't vote. So I understand. But let's not play democracy here, and that someone cares if he just wants the law not to vote today. To Mr Plzák, through the Vice-President. Okay, so you don't have Google, you probably don't know how to use a computer, so I'll tell you what public interest is. And I'm quoting it directly to you. It is often the case that the legislator uses a term which does not define it any further, and although the consequences that may arise in connection with the application of such a concept are often quite serious, the reader of the relevant regulation does not seek out the meaning of the term in the relevant standard or other legal standard. It's a so-called institute. an uncertain term, and that is, for example, a public interest. Have you heard? Thank you. If you'd found it in Googl, you'd have it quicker. A colleague of Hájek. You're not seriously going to compare - Baník with Plzeň prefer not, but football clubs and political parties. [[entertainment]] I will also ask through the Vice-President: You have certainly voted in favour of the limits on campaign financing and other restrictions on political parties? I didn't hear that argument there. It's just that political parties are completely different from sports teams. You can't be serious." And there was another question? I don't think so. And I hope there won't be any more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u45	Thank you. Mr Schwarz, Mr Faltýnek, with a point of order. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u46	Vice-President, good evening. Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues, colleagues, I would like to ask the Minister here, we sat together on the constitutional committee. I'm not the person who - if I wanted to stretch this out, I'd say it here and say I'd get off for two hours now, and I'm gonna read to you here. I can do it. But, Minister, I'm sorry, don't say your impressions here that you think we don't want to vote. I don't think ANO is one of those people who wants to stall, so it wouldn't say. That's one thing. And the other. I wanted to get out. You're right. I'm not gonna say it's not like most people do. I'm gonna get out. I'm not a lawyer. I just want to tell you what's bothering me about the law. Yeah, well, the law - like most of these laws, someone always has a little problem, and that's what we focus on, and the rest, even though it's good and it might work, it's totally useless. You know, I'm gonna transfer it to the communal first, to the edge, or maybe here at the coworker's office. I am sorry about one thing, and I have regretted it since the beginning, when we had it together as senior members of the fourth category in the constitutional law committee, when we talked about it, that I would move into a small town, work there, I could build a company with a lot of employees, those employees in quotation marks like me, we work together. I'm looking for business, they're working well, and since the company's doing well, I'm going to decide to run the city I live in. That's what happened to me. And people know that I like cleaning, ordering, and that I work in technical services to clean up the city, to mow grass, to trees, and because they know how I run the firm - unsettlingly, they know that I own it, I give it homework - so I win the election and become mayor. On the basis of political negotiations, of course. And in a minute, someone's gonna change their mind about my coalition partners and tell me, you know what? But what bothers us is that--
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u47	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but your time...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u48	Then I'll be back in a minute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u49	Okay. Thank you for that. Now, two priority rights. The first will be President Faltýnek, and President Kalousek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u50	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon again. I would like to ask through the President, Minister Chvojka, that we use the relevant arguments. He has said here several times in his speeches and speeches that what we have accepted here is common in all states or in almost all states of Europe. It's not true. It's not true! I will tell you very briefly what the state of ten particular states is, but of course, including where it is, where it really is accepted similarly and in some way it works. But it is simply not true that this is common in all European countries. That's just not true. In the UK, there is no explicit ban on the co-operation of the Minister's office in a government owned by a business share. The conflict of interest of ministers is addressed by the so-called The Ministerial Code, which, at paragraph 7, governs the relationship between the performance of the Minister's office in the Government and his private interests, but only in a very general manner. And I'm not saying that we should have it that way, but I'm just stating how it is in other European states. The material is long, I only read one sentence. The states are ten, so it's going to be ten sentences. France. In French law, Law No. 213/907 out of 11. 11. 2013. However, even in this case, the provision cited does not address directly the question of the incompatibility of the Minister's duties and ownership of a share in a business company. The subject matter of the adjustment is only a general conflict of interest defined as a situation which creates an obstacle between the public interest and public or private interests which could affect the independent, impartial and objective performance of the public function. In Austria, and Austria was actually a model or inspiration of colleague Plíšek, the federal law on conflicts of interest at the highest offices and other public officials of 1983 regulates the issue. The general prohibition of the co-operation of a member of the Federal Government with ownership of a shares in a commercial company does not provide for this law, but if it owns more than 25 per cent in the company, if a member of the Government is either a federal or a Land, it cannot participate - I will shorten - in public procurement. Yes, Austria is a state with similar legislation, but it does not prohibit ownership and does not say: choose whether you want to be a minister or an entrepreneur. [[16.40 hours]] In Germany, the rules of law do not explicitly prohibit the continuity of the duties of a member of the government and the ownership of the shares of a business company. However, there is a code of ethics of the members of the German Federal Assembly and it obliges the members of the Assembly to inform the President of the Assembly of all their proper activities in private companies, etc. There is also a financial penalty calculated on a specific amount if it does not do so. In Italy, the conflict of interest is regulated by Law 215 of 20. 7. However, according to him, membership of the government does not, in itself, restrict the ownership rights of persons to shares in private companies without further connotations. However, government members cannot participate in a legislative process if they are in conflict of interest, etc. In Belgium, the Belgian legal system also does not know the standard for prohibiting government members from owning a holding of a trading company. But once again, there are certain restrictions that apply to this policy. Ministers, for example, may not state their role as Minister in company documents and publications, and for five years after the expiry of the term of office, the former Minister may not become a member of the management of a company which, during its term of office, has been granted a concession authorisation by the Government. In the Netherlands, as in the above cases, it is not expressly prohibited by law to co-operate in a private company's share of ownership and to perform the duties of a member of the government. Specific rules for members of the government are laid down in the Code of Ethics, which requires these to give up secondary functions and thus avoid a clear conflict of interest. This is meant by the function of executives not to run companies, they did not sit in the bodies of these companies, but it does not prohibit ownership of this law. In Sweden - Swedish legislation does not know the general ban on the continuance of government membership and ownership of the shares of a trading company, but the Prime Minister and ministers are obliged, as in the above cases, to make a declaration on property etc., etc., but this is a matter that our law, which went from the government in that government version, addresses. In Norway - Norway, there is no exception when the rule of law of Norway does not prohibit ministers from owning shares. Members of the Government shall be subject to a standard notification obligation and an obligation to exclude themselves from discussing matters of personal interest. The declarations by the Ministers on assets, including shares, shall be made publicly available. And the last one is Switzerland. The Swiss legal system also does not force ministers to dispose of the members of the Federal Council and priori of the shares they hold. However, in view of any conflict of interest, there are again several exceptions which govern the law on the organisation of government and state administration, so the members of the Federal Council must exclude themselves from the discussion and decision-making of certain matters if they have a personal relationship with it. So it is ten countries within Europe only randomly selected, including Austria, which has certain limitations. I do not have Croatia here, which also has certain limitations, but this has been said here several times in these debates. I just want to say that it is not true that this law is common in all the countries of the European Union. It's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u51	Thank you, too. Mrs Hnyková has now made a point of fact. I'm gonna read an apology. Today, from 17.30 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Mr Lukáš Pleticha apologizes. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as I am listening to this - I understand the Member for the YES movement that he protects his chairman, but I want to say that we are not making laws for one person, in our case, you are still mentioning him here, Mr Babiš, but that we are making laws for the future. Mr. Babiš isn't gonna be here forever either. We won't be here forever. One day he'll just walk out of politics, and I think it should apply to future members of the government. It seems to me, and I have to say it out loud here that you're making Mr. Babiš poor, that we want to take everything from him, but you yourself wanted some things to be fixed in our society. So we don't steal here, so we can be transparent and more and more things. And I have one more comment for the end. If we're doing something, we should do it right. If Mr. Babiš wants to do business, and I'm bowing to him, he's built a really big firm, so let him do business, let him go to college and teach people how to do it. But if he goes into politics, let him do politics. I don't think politics and business should merge. That's my attitude towards conflict of interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u53	Thank you, Madame. Now with priority rights, Mr Kalousek, then Vice-President Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u54	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Minister Chvojka told Mr Hájek that he does not mean that he wants to compare this situation to football. It limps every analogy, but I think it's possible. Let's try to compare it to the football game. Of course, the different budgets of football teams create unequal conditions for who wins the league. But the different budgets of football teams do not allow the best and winning football team to seize the normalizing and executive power of the football union, to adjust their rules for themselves and to draw subsidies from the football union, as the winning team decides. It doesn't allow it. And that's why it's not dangerous. However, this is not an example of a conflict of interest in politics. And the risks of transition - Prime Minister, I'm sorry. [[The Prime Minister is speaking with a colleague, disturbing the speaker.]] I can't do this anymore. I just can't... Thank you. The risk of democratic transition for all and democracy for the widest possible middle class, the risks of transition to oligarchy. Oligarcha is not a big businessman with big assets, period. Oligarcha is a big businessman with big assets who tries to seize or seize legislative and executive power for that interest so that he can adjust the conditions for his business and for the business of his comparable entities as it suits him and not his competition, in such a case the small and medium-sized class, which then suffers, ceases, and all become dependent on several oligaris. Oligarcha is the man who does this because he's taken over the legislative power. And thanks to the fact that he's taken power, he's assigning himself to the appropriate favorable state contracts, and he's hooking up to state money on different terms. That's an oligarch, and that's dangerous. If one example is successful, it will certainly be worthy of following. So in a kind of catastrophic vision here, I don't see capitalism for the middle class and everyone creative, but I see here a competition where the voter is going to vote, just like in Ukraine, and he's going to be able to decide between Oligarch A and Oligarch B, but that's all he can vote for, because society is going to be perfectly split. This is not going to happen in football, Mr Hájek, through Mr President. In politics, I'm sure it is. And I think that, unfortunately, today and every day, we are confronted with this threat, and she can be bigger and wider. I wish we didn't have any law either. We didn't need any law for years. The United Kingdom does not need such a law. Because that's where public opinion wouldn't allow such a conflict of interest. This is the country where the minister had to resign because he spoke for his maid in administrative proceedings. He tried to favor someone over other citizens because it was his maid, and he went. After all, I also remember the situation where ministers had to leave after being accused without committing anything, and there were many. We haven't needed that law in years. Today we need him, and we will therefore accept him in the public interest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u55	Thank you. Mr Faltýnek, the President of the Sklenák, was the first to make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u56	Thank you for the floor. Just one sentence. Now we've seen live on the air how colleague Kalousek is caught in his own trap. Let me give you a specific example. I'm just gonna ask you one question. We have heard a huge debate here in the House for six months on biofuels. I feel if I remember correctly that my colleague Kalousek spoke of five billion for Agrofert. Let's see what happened, folks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u57	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u58	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues and colleagues, ten minutes from now, we're about to begin a fixed point, so it's obvious we won't be able to vote today. That is why I would like to make a procedural proposal to interrupt the item by nine o'clock tomorrow. I think it would be best if we continue this discussion tomorrow, as long as we remember what was said today. If we put it off sometime later, I think the debate would be repeated. That's my procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u59	Thank you. Since this is a procedural proposal, we will vote on it without debate. I shall first call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby to attend this vote. I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'm gonna check you all out, and I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your electronic cards. The order has settled. I will repeat the procedural proposal, which sounds like we're going to interrupt this item by tomorrow morning at nine o'clock in the morning, with the fact that this will be the first item in tomorrow's meeting. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 17. 153 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 112, against 34. I am of the opinion that this procedural proposal has been approved, and I am interrupting this point. We have about eight minutes to discuss the fixed point and that's the OKD point. Mr. Faltýnek is now claiming priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u60	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond very briefly to this proposal by my colleague, Sklenák, who passed. I have already mentioned this in my speech at the beginning that for us, for Members, for the Chamber of Deputies, the laws we are to approve tomorrow at the third reading are not important. Like a law on aid in material distress. Those aren't human laws. Lex Babiš is important to people. That needs to be approved. [[Weak applause.]] So friends, the law on aid in material distress - wrong. I understand social democracy. The Health Insurance Act, third reading, also probably unnecessary law, because Lex Babiš is more important. Tax package. Didn't we ask for children's discounts? They did, as I recall. At least in the coalition. Nothing again. And so on and so forth. Just to be fair, after we've explained what our priorities are. I understand that this is an absolute priority for some colleagues. Just get Babiš out of politics! I understand that. But there are other priorities, and we should not be hypocrites about this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u61	Thank you. I'll read an apology. Today, from 16.45 to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Minister Stropnický apologizes. First, with priority rights, President Sklenák is signed up and then President Kalousek. Just for the record, I'm saying that at 5:00 p.m., we have a fixed OKD point so you can count on it in your speeches. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u62	Thank you for the floor. For us, the laws that are included tomorrow in the third reading block as well as those that shine on the board are about budgetary responsibility. But if the YES movement, as I understand from the performance of its previous speaker, approaches this by fulfilling the entire day of the conflict of interest law tomorrow, it will not get there. But I think that this then shows more obstruction than the will to negotiate the laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u63	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u64	Thank you for the floor. I would like to stand up for President Sklenák and all of us who supported his proposal. I think it was very unfair. It was clear from many of Mr Faltýnek's speeches that he was more than exhausted by this because he was, in principle, completely off topic. And my colleague Sklenák tried to offer him gentlemanly so that he could explain it to us at 9:00 a.m. fresh and so that perhaps we could understand what he was saying. And if you understand otherwise, it's probably a shame. I believe that tomorrow we will be able to discuss all the points. All we have to do is talk to the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u65	Now with priority rights, President Faltýnek. After him, Mr. Vice-President. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u66	Thank you. A short line to a colleague of Miroslav Kalousek. We remember talking about some of the laws here. I don't remember if it was a service or a Vrbětice. But at least for myself, you can watch the record. Of my two contributions, I do not think there was a hint of obstruction, my colleague, through Mr President. See ya. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u67	Thank you. Now Vice-President Gazdik. The President of the Laudat shall prepare himself with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u68	Good afternoon, dear colleagues. I would have one brief and very polite question by way of Mr President on fellow Faltýnek, Sklenák: Boys, aren't you in the coalition? Do you happen to have a majority in this House? Don't you want to make a deal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u69	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr President Laudat. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u70	Thank you. It still sounds here, and I'm just trying to get it right. President Faltýnek says around the service law. I'm paying attention to the fact that the main debate around the Service Act has been simple for four hours. All of this was your fiasco about reducing excise duty on fuel - all summer. And not the law of the service. So please don't ever say that again. That's a reality that can be traced in the tapestry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u71	Thank you. I don't see anyone with priority rights as being logged in. In that case, I am interrupting the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies for two minutes within 17 hours, when we will continue to discuss a firmly placed point and this is the Government's information on the procedure on the disadvantageous privatisation of OKD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-10-ps2013-054-01-003-002.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, good afternoon. We will continue according to the approved agenda of the meeting, by a fixed item
