ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws /German press 855/10/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned the bill with an amendment. His resolution was delivered as press 855/11. I welcome Senator František Bublan here. Firstly, I would like Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka to comment on the motion for a resolution of the Senate and the amendment tabled. Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a statement in favour of the Senate proposal which has been referred to us here in the Chamber of Deputies. Given that the Senate is proposing to launch an amendment that was adopted in the House of Deputies and was not part of the Government's bill, and given that I consider it quite uncertain that there would be enough votes in the Chamber of Deputies to overrule the Senate proposal through 101 votes, I believe it will be useful for me to support the Senate version. I merely recall that the bill, which strengthens intelligence control, has been prepared in recent years in intensive discussions with representatives of all the clubs represented here in the Chamber of Deputies. I believe that the proposal, as it was prepared, can be approved on the basis of a broad political consensus. I would also like to remind you that we have strengthened the powers of the secret services in the Czech Republic during this parliamentary term, and part of that decision to strengthen the powers of the secret services was also an appeal from the Chamber of Deputies to the Government to present this very law, which strengthens the control of intelligence services. That is why I will be very happy if we still succeed in fulfilling this commitment by the government within this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u3	Thank you. I will ask whether they want to comment on the amendment: first, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Klučka - not so, the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee, Mr Tejc - is not so. In that case, I am opening the debate and I ask that Senator Bublan be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me just briefly justify the decision or the resolution of the Senate. Of course, I'd also very much like that law to pass. It has been waiting for many years and the text, which has been discussed in the House and in the Senate, is quite good and will certainly benefit from the control and competence of intelligence services. However, in order to justify an amendment which is simple and basically maintains the original text of Section 5 paragraph. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) which says that Military Intelligence provides information originating abroad, important for the defence and security of the Czech Republic, so the reason for this to be approved is not only tactical, as the Prime Minister suggests, but is factual. I would very briefly justify this decision. The scope of the individual intelligence services, which is regulated in Act 153/1994 in Section 5, is based on the previous Section 2, which states that the intelligence services are state authorities for the acquisition, collection of information important for the protection of the constitutional establishment, important economic interests, security and defence of the Czech Republic. A stronger basis for maintaining the original version of § 5 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) that Military Intelligence should have information from abroad relevant for the defence and security of the Czech Republic within its scope, however, the wording of Constitutional Act No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, which shows that the security of the Czech Republic is ensured by armed forces and armed security forces, which includes all intelligence services, including Military Intelligence. With its resolution, the Senate expresses the view and belief that security is seen as a broader concept in our legislation and includes defence and cannot be separated from defence. Military intelligence is not to be limited solely to defence in a military sense, but also to cooperate in a broader sense for the security of the state. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to support this text and I believe that the whole law will help not only our intelligence services, but also the entire public, who has great confidence in these services, and this trust will also be greatly strengthened by this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u5	Thank you, too. I beg the Minister of Defence, and then Mr Korte reports.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, in all brief, I would like to follow up on what has been said here by the Prime Minister and Prime Minister Bublan, or I would like to lead on the original government proposal. I would like to thank the Senate for dealing with the material, and I think the President here has also done so in several sentences, but he has nevertheless been able to give some kind of testimony about the depth and context of it. I am fully convinced that the Senate proposal returns the draft to where it was drawn up by the government. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u7	Thank you. Mr Korte.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not delay much because we have discussed a lot both on the committee and in the Chamber of Deputies on this bill. Senator Bublan's speech focused on the reasoning why Section 5 para. 3 The Intelligence Act returns the words "and security" that the Chamber of Deputies has pushed out. I'm just reminding you how those words got there. It was the MEP's proposal for Nečas, and I suspect it was the Kladívek in 2008. So it's not systemic that the government would assume it has to be. In contrast to the arguments put forward by the Senator here, I will say only three general points why the words 'and security' should not be in that law. Those words in the Intelligence Act have, in practice, caused unwanted interpretational uncertainties concerning the approval of Military Intelligence to ensure information of a purely security nature, including security policy intelligence, that is, information that is not related to the area of this intelligence service, Military Intelligence, to be exclusively monitored, that is, the defence and military threat of the Czech Republic. I believe that in a democratic rule of law, it is unacceptable for the powers of the public authorities to overlap in any way. The dual exercise of state power is contrary to the constitutional principle that state power can only be exercised in cases, limits and ways laid down by law. The word or words "and security" in § 5 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (a) However, in the real activity of intelligence services, the Act on Intelligence raises confusion as to where the limit of the activity of civil intelligence and Military Intelligence is to be ensured by the Office for Foreign Relations and Information and Military Intelligence in the field of foreign intelligence. Note three - general. In a democratic rule of law, the concentration of power is prohibited and the state power itself, and that is our task, our Members, is preventing a concentration of power that, theoretically, could be abused. The structure of the Czech intelligence system is therefore based on the mutual organizational, competence and functional separation of individual intelligence services, which is intended to prevent dangerous concentration and monopolization of their information power, thus limiting the risk of their misuse. And let's not think that it can't happen! The concentration of comprehensive military and non-military security information in the hands of a single intelligence service, which is also endowed with foreign and internal action, is a denial of such a ban on concentration of power. I could probably talk about this for a long time, but I don't want to delay. I merely recall a purely simple, legal, legal framework. Military intelligence is a part of the Ministry of Defence under the law we are discussing. Ministry of Defence pursuant to jurisdictional law, Act No. 2/1969 Sb., paragraph 16, where its competence and competence are defined by other central authorities of the state administration of the Czech Republic, has no scope in the field of security and therefore logically cannot have any competence or its organizational component - Military Intelligence. I therefore call on you, colleagues, to reject the Senate proposal and to stick to our original Senate proposal. Thank you for your attention. [[Messenger. - The House!]] Sorry. Again. I call on you to reject the Senate proposal and stick to our original proposal approved by this House. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Good afternoon. I'm just gonna ask you and your colleagues not to yell at each other if possible. This is Senator Bublan reporting. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I may have just a few words to explain. When I read the Senate legislation's statement, it wrote a sentence on this point that seems to be some kind of misunderstanding that occurred here. And I'm also based on the word "security" that it's a broader term, that it's from Latin security, sine cura - without worry, it's Czech without care, security. So, of course, if we don't have a good defense, we won't be safe. It's connected. And defense and security must be linked, and we can't somehow remove this concept from someone and let them just defend it. It would be more illogical than anything else. And as for the duplication or interference with those two services. You know, that's always gonna happen, and it kind of has to happen. Intelligence experts say that if this did not happen, whether civilian, military, or internal, and external services were too far apart from each other and there were perhaps some kind of information leaks, so that it would be wrong, because there is a space that no one is covering. And the point is that the interbreeding isn't some kind of total, so that the two services don't do the same thing, but there has to be some penetration and he's healthy and he's needed. And that's not a question of law, if we're going to argue over words here, that's a question of service coordination. This has to be dealt with by some coordinating body. The government has a intelligence committee. There they solve these problems, there they solve the penetrations, or some stronger touch. So I don't see the problem that the scope is focused on one service or that it interferes with one another, but it really is a matter of government that needs to coordinate this activity properly and monitor to avoid these phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u11	Thank you, Senator. President Kalousek, with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u12	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Hello, Senator. I have to say, I just smiled a little bit about your argument. It's too late to say that people who remember a lot shouldn't be performing. Unfortunately, I already belong to them, so I remember that for many years there was a Committee on Defence and Security in the Chamber of Deputies before a group of senators came, among which - I am firmly convinced - was colleague Bublan as the future Chairman of the Security Committee, who would convince us how important it is to separate the issue of defence and security from each other, and he had a lot of relevant arguments for that, so we really have since then a Committee on Defence and the Security Committee. Today, when I learn how it cannot be divided, on the contrary, how it must be held together, I cannot resist a smile. It's just a memory. With a number of my colleagues, I find too many duplications dangerous. For the dangerous reason that, as is known not only from history in the Czech Republic but from many other countries, there is a place for those services to devote all energy to defending or protecting their country, they devote much of the energy to their own competition to prove to each other and their political representation that where they overlap, she is better than the other. We really don't want a war of intelligence here. I really dare to join Mr Korte's insistence and ask you to insist on the decision of the Chamber of Deputies and to politely reject the Senate's amendment. Maybe next time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u13	Thank you, Mr President. The senator wants to respond. Please, Senator. I'm just gonna take a moment to read the apology. From today's meeting day from 15 a.m. to the end of the sitting day and tomorrow on 6 September throughout the working day, Mrs Marie Pěnčíková apologizes for the reasons of work. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u14	Mr Kalousek may remember something, but I don't think it's that precise. At the time when the Defence and Security Committee was merged into one whole, I was chairman of this committee and I did not complain. But then there was some political earthquake, and then the Interior Minister was sort of leaving, so he needed some office, and that's why the committees split up. I'm sure I wasn't one of those guys who would vote or hoist it to make that division happen. So it really wasn't. So as he left, I went away and held a different position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u15	I thank you and ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. Ah, we have factual points here. But first -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, while on a lot of questions I agree with my colleague Kort, by your means, on these issues, we all have different opinions about the release of the word security. And I don't think there was one very important thing. At present, in the current security situation, in a situation where things actually intersect in the framework of Military Intelligence, the transfer of information from abroad to the Czech Republic and backwards, it is appropriate for Military Intelligence to have this authorisation. I'm not such a memorial as my previous speaker, Senator Bublan, but the merger and distribution of the Defence and Security Committee was the political color of all those who were in government at the time. Once our government did it, once your government did it, so this has no relevance to me. I think that we are actually moving in a security environment, a defence environment, where we should also have this information, along with the model of other countries, to be able to share it with intelligence services, so that this information can actually reach those who not only form the security environment in the Czech Republic, but who can also communicate with their foreign partners at the level of Military Intelligence. So our club does not have a problem with the original proposal, which, yes, as Dan Korte rightly said here, or a colleague Kalousek said, was presented by our colleague, a member of the defense committee at the time, Mr Petr Nečas.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u17	Thank you for your exemplary time, Madame. Now, with Mr Ondráček's factual remark, Mr Fichtner will be prepared. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u18	Thank you, Mr President. As my previous speaker mentioned, how often she agrees with Mr Kort and not this time, I must say the opposite. I, quite often, do not have similar opinions with Mr Kort, but this time I do. So, what Mr Korte said, you can relate to that. And intersecting the various services - remember when we talked about last year's reorganisation, when there were two nationwide police forces that were intersecting each other, even though they had defined competences, but everyone did what they wanted, and it ended with a union of one whole. And the next reorganization is imminent, and in a month there will be another two unions that were there, but of course already quietly. So I am in favour of you thinking again about what Mr Korte said and supporting the version that we once supported here in the Chamber of Deputies, that is, not supporting the Senate proposal, but supporting what we approved for the first time here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Matěj Fichtner will now make a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good afternoon. I'd just like to remind you what's going on here. Today we have, if I take away the FAO, which is a certain intelligence agency, which is really special in the system and it's a little bit out of the way, so we have three intelligence services, i.e. Office for Foreign Relations and Information, Security Information Service and Military Intelligence. Military intelligence is conceived as an offensive and defensive intelligence service, which means it operates both abroad and within the Czech Republic, in both external and internal environments. The Security Information Service is designed to address and monitor risks of domestic origin and the Office for Foreign Relations and Information is designed to identify and process risks of foreign origin. That's the situation today. What is the subject, at the heart of the dispute between the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies, is whether a proposal by the Chamber of Deputies is to be adopted to stop Military Intelligence from moving inwards, i.e. just to be an offensive intelligence service, not defensive. This change would mean a relatively significant intervention in the concept of intelligence services in the Czech Republic. I would just like to remind you that it has gotten there, into the law that came from the Chamber of Deputies to the Senate, by the parliamentary amendment, and it was not preceded by some fundamental analysis. I would expect an analysis to be made on such an important change, a reform of the intelligence services will be prepared, then a political consensus on this will be obtained, and then it will be realized. Unfortunately, this didn't happen. It's kind of a guerrilla event. And I'm glad the Senate is designing the original form, which means the one that's today. So I'll support the Senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Daniel Korte. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Fichtner has committed false manipulation. Yes, the Bureau of Foreign Relations and Information is intelligence, the Security and Information Service is counterintelligence, Military Intelligence is both. And if we accept, if we confirm our conclusion, which we have adopted here, both will remain, it just should not work in the area of security. It is to operate in the field of defence and is not to be installed where civil intelligence and counterintelligence are operating.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Matěj Fichtner wants to respond with a factual point. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u24	Thank you. Of course, those powers overlap. They overlap both inside and outside. Inside, the Security Information Service with Military Intelligence overlaps with the Office for Foreign Relations and Information, as well as Military Intelligence, which operates both inside and outside. If you ask my opinion, I am a supporter of major intelligence reform, including because I worked in one such intelligence service, so I know how it works. I think there should be more order in this than it is now, so that there are no overlaps or at least the overlaps are precisely defined. Unfortunately, I repeat, this is a rather guerrilla event, and it was not preceded by the deep analysis that is needed for such a fundamental change. Military intelligence, of course, also performs defensive tasks, which largely overlap and interfere with the activities of the Security Information Service. I don't think I'm going to give details, but this is particularly about terrorism and extremism. So the overlay's in there. The point is to solve the overlay, or agree that the overlay won't be there. But again - this is not a matter that should be dealt with by the parliamentary amendment on the basis of how someone sleeps. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-002-002.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. If this is not the case, I am done with the debate. Let me read the apology. Minister Marksová apologizes from today's day from 15.30 to the end of the day for business reasons. We shall now proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. [[Gong calls the Members to vote.]] I'm registering an application for a check-out, which I will of course grant and ask you to rejoin with your identification cards. We'll wait a little while longer for our voter numbers to settle. I will make the relevant resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 153/1994 Coll., on Intelligence Services of the Czech Republic, as amended, and other related laws, pursuant to the Chamber of Press 855/10, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to the Chamber of Press 855/11.' I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? This is vote number 15, registered by 143 Members, for 93, against 19. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. Thank you. That concludes this point. I'm opening another point.
