ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-005-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 959/6/ - returned by the Senate The Senate returned to us the bill with amendments, and his resolution was delivered as House press 959/7. I welcome Senator Jiří Růžička among us and I ask that the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled be addressed by the Minister of Education, Mr Stanislav Štech. Before I give him my word, I will ask you to remain calm, and I will ask Mrs. Vlasta Bohdalová to be prepared - but she is absent. And she's here, so I apologize to my colleague. But the Minister is interested, so please, Minister, you're first. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-005-002.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while we do not have much time left, let me briefly comment on the bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on teaching staff and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, whose main aim is to introduce a career system of teachers. The bill has been returned to the Senate with amendments, which I would like to make a brief statement on. Firstly, Senator Homolka's proposal increases the fee for class teachers compared to the proposed amount of CZK 1,000 to CZK 1,500 per 3 000 per month. Although it is possible to agree with the applicant's godly intention, it should be noted that an increase in the grade premium would involve an estimate of an increase in the financial impact on the state budget by 1.8 billion. CZK compared to the original version approved by the Chamber of Deputies. We deliberately designed the original surcharge for the sorting industry so that the director could take into account, for example, when determining it. The size of classes and according to specific circumstances then decide on the amount of surcharges. This would not be possible in the case of the concept of an amendment. On the amendment by Senator Vystrčil, which proposes an amendment to the sentence on ensuring the professional development of teachers, it can then be stated that the existing text cannot be interpreted in any way that the only institution through which professional development and teacher education can be provided will be the National Institute of Further Education. The sentence in question merely declares the Ministry's responsibility in ensuring the professional development of teachers by the established organisation. And in practice, it will relate mainly to the so-called system. Methodical Cabinets in regions that provide teachers with specific support for teaching. I recall one thing that has happened in recent decades in the Czech Republic: the liquidation of methodological cabinet, the liquidation of pedagogical centres, the breaking of the network...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-005-002.u3	I understand you, Minister, and I will ask for peace again. All those who discuss other issues, although important for the negotiations of this House, e.g. tomorrow, so please do so in the foyer and let the Minister explain his position on this proposal. I'll wait a little longer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-005-002.u4	Thank you. This is a very serious and important thing, because by abolishing sectoral governance, by huge decentralisation, we have come into a very complicated situation, which I would call the center in the position of a lame duck, which is actually only reaching in a very complicated way to ensure what teachers and school directors are asking for. In view of the existence of other provisions on continuing education of pedagogical workers, and we must always take this into account in the context, it is quite clear that there is no change in the existing system of education and support. Any institution that obtains accreditation will thus be able to ensure the professional development of pedagogical staff. It's definitely not our goal to change what works. We just want to create elements of the system so that it helps effectively and is accessible to all teachers. Another question is what the quality of continuing education of pedagogical workers today looks like, their systematicity, their coherence, their logic. Of course, there is great dissatisfaction, but that doesn't mean that these things don't work in a way that serves teachers and they're satisfied that we're going to resign from the system. The most important, however, are the amendments made by Senator Papoušek. These reduce the list of specialization activities and increase the surcharge for them and also assume a reduction in the direct teaching obligation for all specialization activities. In the event of an increase in the premium for specialization activities, only marginally, this would be another increase in the financial impact on the state budget by almost CZK 300 million per year. As regards the reduction of specialised activities, it should be noted that some of them already exist today. Specifically, I would like to mention and recall a special educator in the field of school speech. In a situation where we are blamed, and often rightly we rely little on data, research, pilot verification, we have one of the few documents that is supported. A gradual, rapid increase in children with speech problems in schools. In this situation comes the proposal to abolish the school logo. It is also a proposal to abolish a specialist in spatial orientation of the visually impaired. Of course, there are not many of them, but it is very important where it is, and where parents insist and want their child with disabilities to be educated in a normal school - just at the edge, I don't want to stir up discussions about inclusion, overwhelming majority of parents, overwhelming majority of parents - just point out that to 1. 9. 2016 out of 83 thousand children with those nine or eight types of health handicap was 58 thousand in the ordinary school already before the start of the so-called. Pro-inclusive novels. And these children, which are not many, can be taken care of by such a specialist - is designed to be cancelled. Unfortunately, there was no specific argument for the cancellation of these activities in the Senate. On the contrary, it is clear that this is important to ensure educational support for children in schools, and their need for education is rather increasing. The proposal also proposes to launch a new position as career advisor. Career advisor is something that answers both schools and employers' demands. It has been discussed with all actors for a long time and is clearly recommended for better integration of the world of work and schools. It's been discussed many times. Both these positions are so beneficial for education of teachers and for education of pupils. Finally, as regards the proposed flat-rate reduction in the scope of the direct teaching obligation for all specialised positions, it can be stated that we must be logical. Not all need a reduction in the scope of the direct teaching obligation. In the draft law, we have only mentioned those for which the reduction is appropriate so that other teachers can then focus on both teaching and those concerned and the specialised activities. The version approved by the Chamber of Deputies can be considered as a result of expert discussions conducted with both teachers and directors themselves and with legislators. I personally came to the Ministry at a time when I only remembered about 22 years of career-related discussions. I remembered the first proposals of Prof. Kotásek from 1995 and I was familiar with the work and composition of working groups, by the way e.g. led by the Director of Gymnasium, composed of representatives, teachers, directors, faculty experts, and we were acquainted with what the career order looks like in 2015. We didn't take the career order. He was four degrees. The fourth stage, we think, was completely incomprehensible. Leader of the Czech education system. We went immediately to reduce the number of career degrees. If I ignore the beginning, which is actually not a de facto degree that is actually classified under some kind of education and further development, then we have two. For example, I studied. British experience where there was the greatest turbulence. I'd even say maybe bigger than ours, which is surprisingly about that. [[18.50 hours]] I've seen their situation - four degrees, only two degrees after a few years of revision, one degree eventually, etc. And then when we got to know it and confronted with the experience, we decided to work on this very system that was presented and reduce the incredibly high number of specialization activities that actually resulted from this in 2015. I'm just pointing out that there were a number of weird specialization positions that we've reduced significantly. The Ministry therefore paid great attention to all the suggestions and proposals we received from professional associations, schools, teachers or directors in the Chamber of Deputies, but also from Members or senators. The Ministry repeatedly represented the order of careers before the start - before 2015, before the start of our leadership. round tables or, quite regularly, on various trips with the participation of school directors, teachers and educational experts. Career Regulations have also been repeatedly discussed and communicated with school unions and faculty representatives. Finally, I would like to remind you that both Members and Senators of the School Committees and representatives of the professional public took part in the discussion of the bill at the exit meeting in Štiřín. The result of expert discussions are amendments approved by the Chamber of Deputies. Narrowing the list of persons who will have to create plans for personal professional development only to teachers. The extension of the period for which the personal development plan is based, up to two years. Expansion of the list of persons - and this is very important - that are included in the career system, about a teacher whom the law already allows to teach without fulfilling the requirement of formal professional qualifications, when it is especially a vocational teacher at secondary vocational schools, for four years. The aim of this adaptation is that teachers who are allowed directly by the law to perform pedagogical duties, as they have proven themselves in years of practice, can also benefit from the benefits that the career system brings. Furthermore, we have anchored the participation of a third-grade teacher in the assessment of the teacher, which will complement the role of the school inspector. Moving the obligation to develop the school's professional development plan and personal professional development plans only from the school year 2018/2019. Finally, support the flexibility of the surcharges for the teacher. The Ministry of Education supported an adjustment that allows the supplement for the teacher to be CZK 3 000 or CZK 1 500 with a simultaneous reduction in the scope of direct pedagogical activities. Again, a decision will be left to the head of the school, who is best able to assess which of these options is better suited to the needs of the school. With the effectiveness of 2021, I also recall the anchoring of a social educator, because I believe that in four years we will appreciate its need much more than today. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of approval of the proposal with amendments to the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, there would be a significant increase in funds from the state budget, which have not yet been calculated and which are not covered in any way. I therefore ask you to support the version approved by the Chamber of Deputies. This is the most supported proposal for professional support for teachers, which, unlike the Senate version of the guaranteed budget cover, consists of a comprehensive system of support for both experienced and early teachers. Among other things, a large part of the directors, of course, are already working with beginners, defining someone, delimiting someone who is a kind of teacher, only with no means to appreciate the work. Including better continuity, and this is also important for the preparation of future teachers at teaching faculties. We started this communication two years ago, and there's pressure to actually follow-up, the teacher training at the faculty better respect the connection then for the first years of teaching practice. I think it is clear that the teaching profession is challenging by its importance often only declared verbally, absolutely essential for future generations. mít now have the chance to provide support for teachers despite various complaints and imperfections, the support they have been calling for for more than two decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-005-002.u5	I thank the Minister of Education Stanislav Štech. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Body Member Vlasta Bohdalová for her comments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-005-002.u6	Good evening, Minister, Mr President, colleagues. I always get so angry and upset when education, educators and the entire education system become politics in our time. And that happened right here and now. The career order has been discussed for more than 20 years. It's always been Mrs. Columbová who knows that favorite show. Everyone talked about her, but nobody's ever seen her. For the past two years, Mrs Columbová has come out of the background and started discussing it, and not only in the culinaries of the Ministry of Education, not only in the galleries of the Chamber of Deputies, but this career order has been discussed with professional associations, has been discussed with teachers. Their comments were heard and incorporated. There's been a lot of work done. And then it happens, and it's so interesting when we pass this bill in the Chamber of Deputies, and I remember that it was approved by a pretty substantial majority, and we send it to the Senate, that it suddenly appears - that there are amendments from the Senate, I take it, it's their right, just as I take the right to have a petition that suddenly has 21,000 signatures and says it speaks for all the educators in this country. I would like to remind you, fellow Members, that in this country approximately 140 000 teachers are engaged in teaching activities. And I'd like to say here, where were the 20,000 teachers who signed the petitions today in those hearings? Where did they express their fears? I'm sure you and I have now received letters from disgruntled teachers saying they don't want a career order, that we should let them learn that we shouldn't pay attention to them, but that we should give them money. We must, of course we must, because this is very important, because our education has been racked to the bone for the last ten years. But I ask myself the question again - and I invited some people to my office and started discussing the problem with them. And all of a sudden, I learned that the people who signed the petition didn't know what was in the law. What struck me the most was a sentence when they told me: if we had those certificates, the first and second grades, you would give us a donation of two thousand, then three thousand crowns, but you would stop us with a pay machine. This was also an opinion, or is the opinion of some petents. And here I say, it's a lie, a lie, and a dirty lie! Because a pay-as-you-go-to-the-year On the contrary, tariffs will be increased, it will be proposed to put 10 per cent in tariffs plus another percentage in excess components. And the extra fees for any testimonials are extra money. And I would also like to point out, because another opinion of the petents: you're forcing us all to do a testimonial. That's not true. We tell the young beginners who now have the wet diplomas in their pocket: Yes, you have here the first two years when you are a beginner teacher to learn with the help of the teacher. Yes, you all have to make the first testimonial so that you can become an independent teacher. But if you make another test in five years, that's just your decision. [[19.00 hours]] And for those two years, the early teacher has the power to decide whether or not the job will fill it, whether or not he wants to continue working in the system, or whether he wants to leave.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-27-ps2013-059-01-005-002.u7	Then I will interrupt you, rapporteur, because no one has proposed a meeting after 19 o'clock. I am bound by the Rules of Procedure Act and, given that we are negotiating the laws, I have nothing left to do but interrupt our negotiations by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning and tell you that tomorrow we will begin with paragraphs 83, 38, 5, 39 and 95. These are points from block third reading, respectively. There is, of course, a point from the block of first reading, a law that is proposed to approve at first reading, and then today an unnegotiated bill returned by the Senate to the Chamber of Deputies. Have a good evening and I look forward to seeing you tomorrow. Thank you, Mr. Senator. Next time, Senator, we'll let you know. We've got this point ahead of us, which we're going to have to finish.
