ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u1	165. Members of Zbyněk Stanjura, Jana Černochová, Petr Fiala, Ivan Adamec and others for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 353/2003 Coll., on excise duties, as amended /German press 966/ - first reading Even before Mr Zbyněk Stanjura presents the proposal - you have received the Government's position as House Press 966/1 - the President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek reports with priority. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u2	Thank you, Mr President. I'm sorry, now I may look a little nitpic, but for possible future disputes - you said "I interrupt this point," and I am convinced that it wasn't even initiated because it couldn't be initiated. So if we agree that the point remains interrupted since the last meeting, that's the right wording.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u3	No. Vice-President Filip said in his speech one hour ago: I interrupt this point until 14:30. Here's what I got from the legislation. And he remains interrupted because we have decided that he will not be included on the agenda of the meeting, for no one has suggested it. Thank you for the clarification. Thanks. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u4	Thank you for the floor. I understood the performance of both ministers that it was a standard performance among the points of those who had priority rights. That's perfectly all right. There's nothing to argue with. But let me introduce to you the bill on excise duties, or amendments to the excise tax law. And since the law is quite extensive, it only applies to one part of the excise duty on beer. When I was thinking -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u5	I'm very sorry, dear colleagues. Please transfer your calls to the foyer. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u6	When I was thinking about what I would start to do to get you to pay attention to me, maybe we could ban the word temporary in politics, not in Czech. We had temporary occupation troops here. Temporaryly, our government introduced an increase in tax for three years and temporarily increased beer tax rates were introduced in 2009 with effect from 1 January 2010. The first temporary period lasted almost 22 years. The income tax continues to apply without limitation, although it was due to end a year and a half ago, and even though those who passed the law in 2009 and said on the microphone that it would pay a year, two or more, but not more than three, that is the seventh year. I recommend to all of us because one of those temporaryities was from our workshop so that we do not use the word temporary in politics or in tax matters, because then the reality is completely different. Another political representation will come and temporary will become a rule. The bill is very short, it contains basically one paragraph, one article and effectiveness. The effectiveness is proposed from 1 May 2017, so it can still be done, but it is not the most important thing. [[14.50 hours]] In 2009, the administrative government introduced Prime Minister Fischer and promoted the so-called Chamber of Deputies. Janotův's package, which had austerity on the expenditure side and tax increases on the income side at the entrance. The House press was discussing in a state of legislative emergency. I would like to remind you that this is a rather unusual instrument, which means there was no first reading, but there was basically a one-day discussion and it turned out that taxes have increased and expenditure has not been limited. So only half of it was fulfilled. And one of those parts was the increase in excise duty to beer, when the authors at the time assumed an additional yield to the state budget of approximately CZK 1.2 billion. This applies from 1 January 2010. But, as is the case, estimates are not usually accurate, and time can judge those who argue whether it brings more or less money than the truth. The return was not 1.2 billion, but a maximum of 800 million crowns a year. Among other things, this is also due to the fact that consumer behaviour has changed and changed. It should be said that the beer market is undergoing very dynamic changes and in recent years there has been a decline in the overall exhibition. The only change was in 2016, but it was due to the success of our exporters and thanks to increased exports. On the other hand, and you are experiencing this in many of your regions, a completely new segment has been created and these are called. mini-breweries that offer unconventional brands, new beers, to date 347 work. Most of them, about 90 percent, have either a restaurant or a hotel to produce it, where it sells its product. They're employing approximately - I'd like you to hear the number - 3.5,000 employees. We propose to return to the rate of excise duty on beer until 2009, in the segment of the smallest breweries. For all others, we propose a reduction, but the reduction is not as high as it was in 2010. I'd like to introduce you to the situation in beer production. Basically, in the Czech Republic, we can divide breweries into four groups according to their professional association. There is a Czech Association of breweries and malts, which brings together mostly large breweries. I have dealt with President Šámal and this bill has the support of the Czech Association of breweries and malts. In addition, there is a Czech Moravian association of mini-breweries and malt. I've dealt with President Šurán. This bill has the support of this association of mini-breweries and malt. Then there are non-core breweries that are neither in the large union nor in the association of mini-breweries, and as the fourth, special entity there is a national company Budvar and according to the information I have, the long-term management of Budvar supported the reduction of excise duty on beer. At this point, I'm looking for a new director, so of course I didn't have anyone to turn to right now. I now present to you the information I received in the discussions because we preferred to discuss with those involved and we wanted to know their opinion, because who other than experts and those who are doing this today and daily should express their position. I will now present to you the information I received first from the Czech Association of breweries and malts, and it is for the whole industry, no matter how organized they are. They state that roughly this industry creates 65,000 jobs. But it's including places that are indirect and induced. They pay about 29 billion taxes a year, pay some 20 billion annually to suppliers, and if we add to that the accompanying industry, that is, restaurants and beer stores, up to 300,000 jobs are created and the tax contribution is CZK 62 billion. So this is definitely a big and interesting industry. When I dealt with the association of mini-breweries that welcomed it as a possible cost reduction, they warned me that if someone decided to set up and operate a mini-brewery and a restaurant, they could go to it from up to 27 state authorities. They've had an independent study done, and now listen carefully. Overall, the mini-brewery, which has an average of nine to ten employees, spends 45 days a year doing its duty to the state. 45 days a year. That's more than two months working days. And I'll actually read it to you so you don't just question the number. I'll read you the office and check on it. Business Office - can go check the trade license as to what the establishment looks like and license to sell alcohol. Financial office - filling in, filing and rechecking income tax, value added tax, real estate tax, invoice registration, and newly EET. Customs administration - goes to check the tax warehouse, collects excise duty, sets advances and monthly excise duty returns, and each must prove every year so-called. economic stability. Of course you have employees, so you serve, you communicate with the Social Security Administration. Then here we have the Czech Statistical Office. Depending on who's lucky or unlucky, the mini-brewery fills out one to 24 statistical statements a year. Labor Office. The employer must conclude a contract with the doctor and keep contracts and employee records. Then we have the State Bureau of Labour Inspection and eight regional labour security inspectors, the Foreign Police, the control of the employment of foreigners, the control of pressure vessels, the revision of chimneys, the revision of electricity, the safety of work, training, protective equipment. Health insurance. It can happen...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u7	I'm so sorry. I understand, my dear fellow colleagues, that the list of authorities that the President is giving you has excited you, but I will ask for peace of mind. Thank you. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u8	I'm not gonna disturb my colleagues here in the first place. Maybe you guys could try it on. Health insurance. If the employees get blown up, you're communicating with seven health insurance companies. Then here we have the State Agricultural and Food Inspection, which goes to check the quality of production and products, checks the labelling of products, checks the labelling of allergens. Hygiene, veterinary administration, building office, firefighters or firefighters, records, training, inspections, inspection of fire extinguishers. Then you have the municipal office in the place of business. Waste water control, waste management control, emission control. Czech trade inspection goes to check thermometers, checks weight branding. Then you deal with copyright, TV charges, radio. And the Police of the Czech Republic who are checking to see if you're dumping minors in that restaurant. For each office, for each of these activities I have stated exactly how much on average one mini-brewery with ten employees spends hours a year. Forty-five hours a year. A really incredible time. And we have a chance to somehow reduce tax burdens, reduce costs and contribute to the development of breweries and mini-breweries. [[15.00 hours]] In particular, mini-breweries are very often local family companies that do not seek investment incentives in neighbouring countries that do not move their production. Some might say ten jobs, but times 347 is 3.5,000 jobs. And to compare it with something, I'll read you a press release from the Office of the Government of November 2016. The German Bosch will receive an incentive of up to CZK 444 million in the Czech Republic. With 600 jobs being created and around 120 jobs for college students. 444 million for 620 jobs. Here we are talking about tens of thousands of jobs, 3.5 thousand jobs in the mini-brewery segment, and that impact is about 600, 700, and I'm willing to give it to the Ministry of Finance, 800 miles. Crowns. Then compare the effectiveness of such a measure. This measure is flat, it helps everyone, it cuts everyone's costs. Ladies and gentlemen, on 2 January, the government was proud of the outcome of the state budget for 2016. Even we from the opposition did not question the good result plus 60 billion. It's time to cut taxes. We can do this. This proposal has the support of the entire market, of all professional organisations, and I believe it will find support among us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u9	I thank Mr Stanjur as the appellant. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Miroslav Kalousek to take the floor. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u10	Thank you for the floor. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. The petitioner told us quite thoroughly, it is not difficult, what we should or should not vote on, so you will surely forgive me as rapporteur, that I will not repeat his words by any other wording of the bill's content, but I will try to give you the government's position, because the government has given its opinion on this proposal. And I have to say, I'm shaking my head over him. In case some of you wouldn't read it, I'm asking us to discuss it with each other, because I admire the government in its optimism that it believes that what an MP, that idiot. If she thought otherwise, she would have to put it a little differently. The position is disagreeable, which does not irritate me, because it is a parliamentary proposal that changes the tax, but there are three reasons why I dare say that they are all funny. The first reason begins with the sentence: the Government does not consider the proposed intervention in the tax system desirable in particular in view of the fact that it is a harmonised tax in the present case, and this proposal is not compatible with European Union law. The government explains why - because it believes that for mini-breweries with an exhibition of up to 100,000 hectolitres, the rate of CZK 12 is lower than that of the harmonised directive, which is, as we know, the sixth directive of the European Union on excise duties. However, this is one of the six rates that is changing, one of the six rates. However, the government says: it is not in accordance with the law of the European Union, so we cannot lower people's taxes. If this argument had been used by political movements and parties that were hostile to the European Union wishing the Czech Republic to leave the European Union, I would have accepted it. They simply argue a purposeful argument where they blame their own unwillingness or cowardice or incompetence on the European Union. This is a very common sport of domestic politicians. But when a government that applies verbally to the European Union does so, it is at least unfortunate, because it tells citizens that something is not possible here, even if it is possible. And it is not because we are reluctant or cowardly, but because of the ugly European Union, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance write in his opinion. It's not true. And do not seduce your own political attitudes towards the European Union. I beg you very much, at least those who are serious about the European Union. That one number is the 12 crowns. There may be a complicated discussion, there may be a few legal interpretations for this, but it certainly is not a problem in second reading to submit the discussion and if the government's position is legally correct, it will not be 12 crowns, but it will be 13.20 crowns, but it will not be the 16 crowns that it is now. And it'll be perfectly fine. And that's in our power. No harmonisation directive is stopping us from doing that. And for this reason, I protest and argue against the Government's position, which, in addition to questioning the competence of the government, which does not bother me so much, is what the government does almost daily, so it challenges and undermines in the eyes of citizens the European Union as an institution that we are part of. That is the first point in the Government's position. The second paragraph of the Government's position states how terrible it is that this step will result in a negative impact on public budgets of around 600 million in 2017 and 800 million in the following years. I repeat - 600 million and 800 million. So we're talking in the order of under one billion. Each of us here, apart from the members of the government, knows well that there is no finance minister to estimate the collection of excise taxes for a whole year with an accuracy of one billion. I just can't. The accuracy of excise duty is about two, three, four billion. Even the $5 billion deviation is not so reprehensible, because markets have their swings, they behave somehow. So please, ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about a fundamental change in the tax system, which I would like, of course, and I would prefer simplifying the tax system and reducing social security to a relatively marginal adjustment. That's not what we're talking about. We're talking about marginal adjustment of one rate without interfering with the system. Without interfering with the system, we are talking about marginal adjustment of one rate, which is below the statistical error of the annual estimate of excise duty collection. Again, the estimate we have in our budget of excise collection for 2017 and all the estimates we've made in the past of the total excise collection could never be to the nearest one billion. So let's put it here as a total tragedy that maybe 600 or 400 or maybe nothing at all, because the excise tax is going to be lower, so the beer is going to be consumed more, so it's going to be zero. We speculate in numbers that are just below statistical error. It makes no sense to argue about them in any fundamental way. So that is the second point in the justification for the fundamental disapproval given to us by the government. And the third, perhaps to laugh really eventually, gives within the framework of equality and inequality, which is really fun. The government further notes... I'll let you testify, then I'll continue... Thank you. [[15.10 hours]] Furthermore, the government notes that by reducing the excise duty on beer, there would be some inequality in the taxation of excise duties on other excise duties, such as alcohol, mineral oils or cigarettes. So a lot of people must have thought of this, because some inequality could, of course, occur with a commodity that exists on the market as a substituent. There may be inequality in the taxation of cigars, cigarillos, cut tobacco, in the face of the cigarette and its taxation. This is interchangeable, and if we tax something more and something less, then, of course, the consumption of smokers will shift there. But cigarettes, please don't drink nicely. There to seek equality and inequality in excise tax between cigarettes and beer, it is sorry, such nonsense could not even write corrupt trash. [[With laughter.]] That's absolutely stupid. Just as, ladies and gentlemen, the government may not know this, but we in the Chamber of Deputies agree that mineral oils are not being drunk either, and it is also difficult to find any equality or inequality between taxation of mineral oils and beer. What is comparable in commodities loaded with excise duty and beer is wine and spirits. And here we really have some inequality. Here we really have some inequality long-term encoded. While beer, whose domestic consumption is dominantly consumed on the domestic market, is not taxed on wine, whose domestic consumption is 60% import. I'm not upsetting right now, God forbid, for taxing wine. I'm just saying, we have an encrypted inequality here. We tax the beer we drink from domestic sources from domestic producers who employ people here, while we do not tax wine, which is about 40 percent of domestic production and 60 percent of import. And look at the truth in the face, the current and former health ministers will surely give me the truth, the alcoholic beverage market is not particularly drawn by gourmets and gourmets and occasional tasters, the market is mainly made up of regular and exciting consumers. They need their regular dose daily, and the vast majority of them choose the cheapest. That means if ten bottles satisfy him because it's the cheapest, he'll choose ten bottles. If he's satisfied with four boxes of liquid called wine imported from the southern countries, and there's no tax on it, he'll just make his daily dose with that box. Here's the inequality! Here's the absolute inequality! Beer, we impose excise duty on beer, we don't impose excise duty on low-quality stumps imported into our boxes. And the government has the courage to say that by reducing the excise duty on beer, there would be some inequality. A complete misunderstanding of the problem, a complete lack of understanding of the market for alcoholic beverages. These are three reasons for which the government is proposing opposition. I would like to say, on the basis of the argument I made, that the justification is unqualified, that it is purposeful, and worse, it is stupid. I would accept, as rapporteur for this proposal, the dissenting position of the government for principle reasons. I don't accept reasons we can only laugh at. That's the worst thing the government can do, to present something that's really ridiculous, because it's in its argument -- well, it's just stupid. Therefore, I would like to ask you, as rapporteur, to release this press into second reading, to submit it, unlike the Government's position, to a truly expert debate which I do not doubt that we are capable of here in the Chamber of Deputies, and to make a final decision on the basis of this debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u11	I thank the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Petr Bendl was the first to comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u12	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I will try to take a slightly different view not to use the arguments that have already fallen here, nor the argument that the view of beers versus vintners is to all of us who are dealing with this issue, I have long known when beers point out that wine has zero excise tax and beer does not and has it, I will say, significantly different. I'd like to make one more argument for you. We are a sector that is Czech, and produced Czech beer and consumed mainly in the Czech Republic is our beneficial export article. We have complicated its consumption - or complicated it to all those who sell beer and, in particular, drink beer, I must say, complicated it by bringing a number of new costs into operation of individual pubs, pubs, restaurants. For example, in the copyright law, we increased the pub operators - or you increased the fees they have to give to collective administrators. You have, of course, increased the introduction of EET monthly costs to pubs. You have increased - or you intend to increase problems and reduce income in the area of smoking ban, where a number of pubs and restaurants have invested in various facilities that were supposed to vent the rooms, built up, or made investments such that smoking of some customers does not bother customers who do not smoke. [[Time.]] These failed investments will, of course, be affected especially by small pubs. I would ask you to take this also as a partial compensation and assistance to those on whom you have put unnecessary costs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Plzák. After that, Mr. Komárek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u14	Thank you, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I understand the nature of the proposal and I find it reasonable. He'll probably have my support. But what impressed me about the speaker's speech was that terrifying list of institutions whose controls are being controlled by the manufacturers. As he put it here, it seemed that all the checks were made during the current government. I would just like to ask which checks were made during the current governments and which are carried with them by those manufacturers from the time other parties ruled with us. If there's any way to get it out, or if there's just no answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Komárek. After him with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u16	Thank you. Mr President, I have a formal remark this time. I would ask the House's leadership to unite notes, because some of the Presidents do not quite logically accept the factual point at the start of the debate, because a factual point must respond to the debate, but you, Mr President, do not know whether by your means he has made a factual point at the start of the debate. Well, I'd like to know what it's like. And if you're wrong, then there's no debate, it's like zero, and I don't know how we're going to proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u17	Thank you and I apologize for that. Of course, you are right under the Rules of Procedure. I wanted to be helpful, but I insist on starting the debate. The first duly entered into the debate, and even with priority rights, is President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u18	I agree that there cannot be a factual point unless there has been any speech in the debate. I'll try to answer the list of institutions honestly. I didn't look into it like that. And I didn't say in my speech that all the responsibilities were imposed by this government. I didn't judge in which period and during which the governments added the obligation. The ones I listed logically belong to this government. I didn't exactly investigate that it could also be implementing regulations, if any of these authorities were more proactive and didn't add this year, or maybe four years ago. I really don't know. And that wasn't even the point. It wasn't a criticism of the government. But when I was introduced to the fact that such a number of institutions existed, I asked the chairman of the mini-brewery association to give it to me in writing. And I thought it was interesting to introduce us all - not only to the number, but also to read the list of institutions and specific responsibilities. I have to say, I'm looking forward to the debate. Because I take the reservation that one rate could be contrary to European legislation seriously. On the other hand, the Parliamentary Institute has automatically drawn up an opinion on each draft of the law, which concerns only whether or not this proposal complies with European legislation. This opinion was drawn up automatically by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. And to my surprise, I read in it that this bill is in line with European legislation, because European legislation does not regulate it. So we have two opinions, one government and one Parliamentary Institute, and it is a matter that we need to discuss and clarify in the debate and debate on the Committee on Budgets. And if the government is right, and I don't know that authority at this point, it's just a simple mathematical operation. Either the lowest rate goes up, or the highest rate goes down to accommodate the fifty percent if we really have to do it as a percentage. It's nothing that the petitioners would disagree with. Because if the obligation exists like this, we have two mathematical options to solve it. We can model it, we can calculate what impact it will have on the manufacturers, on the restaurants, or on the restaurateur. on the state budget. Allow me, because there has not yet been any more substantial disagreement with this amendment in the debate, and it has indeed one single paragraph, one single article, to propose a reduction of the discussion to 30 days. I think that's enough for us. If this doesn't work out, we'll discuss it within 60 days, and that's perfectly possible and common. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u19	Thank you to President Stanjur. With a point of fact, now President Kováčik. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u20	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me gently point out that the time that is pregnant with the election events is already here. It is evident from many suggestions. I am just reminding you that when KSČM proposed similar proposals to reduce indirect taxes, especially VAT, such as basic food and other and other things, it has not been here for the necessary things with support, even with the ODS. Yet we are known to vote on the matter, not on the person who puts it. We find this proposal rational, especially in relation to the Budvar national enterprise, but also to those others who are in foreign hands, for example, and I will not now name it not to do advertising. In comparison, however, I am finely opposed to the rapporteur's claim on imported wines, and even derivatives, etc. The rapporteur knows very well that it is not possible to put a double rate on one type of goods, and I would therefore ask that it be respected that the tradition of winemakers of Czech, Moravian and Silesian is that the excise duty on wine exists and has a zero rate. And it's so good, because it's all about the support of the vintners and vintners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u21	Thank you, Prime Minister. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u22	Thank you. I don't want to argue with the Prime Minister of the KSČM. My comparison did not mean that I might call on you to tax quiet wine. I just wanted to draw attention to the pointlessness of the government's position, which compares tax equality between the taxation of mineral oils and the taxation of beer, even though excise duty is imposed on both of these commodities. For if we are to compare, the taxation of beer and the taxation of wine. Mineral oils, I don't know about government, but we still don't drink in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u23	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr Petr Bendl, now duly applied for. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would first respond, through Mr President, to Mr Komárek. When I was logged in, I was the only one enrolled in the debate. The fact that I used tech, it was more like I wanted to fit in those two minutes. I almost fit. I think that at a time when no one on the board was properly logged in, that it was nothing against nothing and it was pointless to defy the Rules of Procedure here. And then to that list of individual checks. Well, we've already had a chance to reduce the number of checks. In a debate that I would simplify as a discussion of the agricultural committee versus the health committee, where the agricultural committee was prepared across the political spectrum to demonstrate that the removal of certain competences of hygiene and the handover of the State Agricultural and Food Inspection would mean that two will no longer be going to control the same thing, but it will be controlled only one, and I do not know which of you voted, but I have therefore voted decisively, or we voted in favour of at least one going to control one and the same thing, and not two institutions. Unfortunately, that has not been achieved here to the detriment of those involved. And it wasn't about beers, of course, it was about the food sector as a whole in general.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u25	Thank you. Now the factual points, first Mr Martin Komárek, followed by Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Mr Bendle, through Mr President, it is nice that you stood up for Mr President, but it is not nice that you do not listen to me or him. You don't listen to him admitting that he made a mistake and apologizing nicely for her, which, of course, I am. And you do not listen to me, either, because I have not pissed Mr President off at all. I merely wanted the President not to have double standards, so that one factual point of introduction should be accepted, and the other one is not, which I have the right to think of, because this House should have only one rule. I hope so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u27	This does not happen often, but I agree with Mr Komárek. Thank you. Another registered comment is Mr Leoš Heger. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u28	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor. Mr Bendl has taken a bit off the subject and has begun to develop the issue of controls and their number on a specific basis of the health story versus agriculture. I'm sorry to continue the detour, but it's triggered by a colleague. I think that if agriculture at the time thought the proposals that agricultural and health control would unite, absolutely deadly seriously, and it didn't just want to rip off some bigger agenda, because apparently it had nothing to do, it would start like any good man who says that the best helping hand is at the end of his shoulder, so that he himself offered this control to health care to carry it out under one battalion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u29	I thank Mr Heger. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, co-workers, I'm not going to be here to raise a health or agricultural control dispute. I'm not really erudized enough for that. But I am also glad that my colleague Plzák came up with a remark that concerned the number of checks, and that it was heard here from our President. Because if you remember, we criticized the same thing in the public sphere when the SAO's competence was being added here. Here you can see that the private sphere is very similar and that there are very many controls. Sometimes they're dubling. Even then, we said it would be good to think seriously about whether it would be worth some way to reconcile and optimize this, because control is supposed to help, but in this amount, I don't think controls help, but they have exactly the opposite effect, they do harm. Then I wanted to make one more comment. I always have to laugh when someone says they're gonna raise taxes temporarily. I remember VAT, solidarity tax, how many discussions we had here. And temporarily, please, in the area of taxes, and maybe not just there, it means to me that it's forever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u31	Thank you, rapporteur with priority rights. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u32	When, thanks to the generosity of the President, the debate has been extended until the controls, allow me to remind you that in this House for two years there has been a law on a single control point, a proposal for a TOP 09 law carefully drawn up and tuned with the Economic Chamber, the purpose of which would be that the State would check from one place with the methodological support of all the existing 27 institutions that go to control, but there would only be one place to check, which means that they would not be dubbed in the time of control from tens of different institutions. It would be an extraordinary relief especially for entrepreneurs, but also for the state administration. It's been here for two years, colleagues. Two years. You have not yet considered it appropriate to include it on the program and subject it to at least an elementary discussion, when we are all here fully willing to reduce the control burden.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u33	Thank you. Mr Schwarz, duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u34	I've been considering this for a long time. Vice-President, good afternoon, everyone. I would like to make a motion to dismiss this law. That's all I'm gonna justify. I see him as unsystemic, so I'm giving a procedural motion to dismiss this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u35	Thank you. I'm filing a motion to dismiss the proposed bill. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Adamec. [[There's noise and restlessness in the hall!]] Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u36	So, Mr President, colleagues, it is exactly as I said. Here we go. When something's about to go down in the tax area, it's here. By the way, I can see the views here from the YES movement that it's reasonable. By the way, I'm saying it's reasonable and reasonable in the field of excise duty. It is precisely that this is not the VAT proposed by your chair of the Andrej Babiš movement, because excise duty has its charm. This applies to the producers and, moreover, the excise duty is purely in the hands of the state, whereas VAT is not, where the proceeds are then divided. I think it will help both producers, producers and innkeepers. I'm lobbying for it to be released into the next reading, and I hope it won't be like I said in my previous remark, when something has to go back or edited, as it once was before any crisis, so suddenly we find that we can't. By the way, speaking of which, I remember that a serious topic for the first Republic was the so-called millionaire tax. When I saw that we had approved the solidarity tax, of course, with a limited period of three years, I felt that what went wrong in the first Republic was unfortunately in a time of crisis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u37	Thank you. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I ask who else is reporting for the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the plaintiff's final statement. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u38	I have to say, I'm not surprised, I'm amused. When I get the information "all good, we're in consensus" from one of the clubs at 3:18, so at 3:32 p.m., there's a motion to reject the same club, so it's really fun. And I'm not complaining about that. Just so we know how it works here, and how elementary trust can work when in 14 minutes, it changes its mind completely the other way around. But that's okay, you have every right. I just wanted this place to sound like it couldn't be trusted by anyone or anything. I would just like to remind you what I said in the explanatory memorandum, in my opening speech, that there is a direct link between brewery and agricultural primary production. Very often here I hear from many mouths that we have to think about agricultural first-production, here we have a chance not only to say something about it, but also to do something. I would like to mention about two more numbers, and that is the difference between big cities and smaller towns and villages. While in more expensive restaurants, beer sales account for up to 10 per cent, in smaller towns and villages and in villages up to 60 per cent of turnover. The ratio is very significant and the aid especially the smaller ones will be greater, although the same rate for all breweries at this rate. Then the desired effect would fall on all the restaurants and logically those who have a larger sales of beer, it will help them more, and these are the smaller ones, we should help them, the big ones we should control and babysit. That is what I think is the right approach not only in this area. Maybe for fun. You've all noticed that the dispute between the departments of agriculture and health is inherited from government to government. Petr Bendl spoke of this parliamentary term. And Mr Leoš Heger spoke of the last parliamentary term. And both of them are right, because the same conflict of approaches between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture was in the last parliamentary term under another government, and it persists in this term. I will criticize it for both governments. Here you can see a typical example of a resort approach, and I'm not saying who's right, where every resort is keeping an eye on its own. And what is the result? 27 controls, 50 controlled activities, 45 days devoted to control and reporting activities in a company with ten employees. 45 days a year! This is the result of the ministerial approach of our ministries for any government, both in the past and in this one. And it's wrong. Instead of asking what's better for businessmen, employers, we're arguing about what's better for my ministry or for the ministry of colleagues. I think we have a chance to help the first producers, help the breweries, help those who run pubs, restaurants, pubs. The state can afford it, I repeat, we can cut taxes and it's time to cut taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u39	Thank you. I beg the rapporteur's final word. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u40	Thank you for the floor. I just allow myself to repeat my request to release it to second reading, because I think that the discussion is precisely about the continuity of primary production, that it is an important sector of the Czech food industry and an important sector in which the Czech countryside participates to a large extent, that at least the debate at second reading deserves this. I confess that I was surprised by the performance of the ANO club representative, as I was also informed that there should be no problem with the release for second reading. There's probably been some awakening outside this hall and a quick text, but of course I respect that. [[15.40 hours]] So I would just like to remind you on this occasion that the government of the Czech Republic over the last three years has not made it the least difficult to triple the subsidies from the state budget for the Czech food industry. They're tax-paying, by the way, from the taxes we're talking about right now, for the breweries. The fact that many of you do not make it a problem that Agrofert is the dominant recipient of these subsidies. I realize that there are no breweries within the holding, and I understand that this is a rather large handicap for this proposal. But I would like to promise here for TOP 09 that when the holding decides to cook beer and there will be a large brewery called Agrovar, I promise that my access to the excise duty on beer will not change that. That I would be in favour of her reduction even then, if it would perhaps help to mitigate the position of the political division of Agrofert. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u41	That was the final word of the rapporteur, and I will call on our colleagues from the lobby, and first we will consider the proposal to reject the proposal tabled by Mr Schwarz. I'm signing you all out. Please sign up with your voting cards, and we will vote on the motion for rejection. Initiating vote on the motion to dismiss. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is vote 299, registered 134 Members and Members, for 45, against 67. The motion to dismiss has not been accepted. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else suggest a guarantee committee? [[Mr. Tejc wants to speak on the microphone.]] Oh, questioning the vote, I'm sorry. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u42	Dear Vice-President, it doesn't happen often, but it happened to me. I voted in favour. I'm late on the record. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-010-165.u43	The Member raises an objection and I will vote on his objection. I am opening the vote on Mr Tejc's objection. Whoever is in favour of accepting the objection, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 300 vote, 134 Members and Members registered, for 126, against 1. Objection received. We will therefore repeat the vote on the motion to reject the proposal. Initiating a new vote. Whoever is in favour of rejecting the motion, let him raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 301 vote, 137 Members and Members are registered, for 61, against 62. The motion to dismiss has not been accepted. We will indeed continue the commandment to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantees. Again, I'm asking if anyone's proposing another guarantee committee. It's not like that. I have begun voting on the commandment of this bill to the Committee on Budgets as a committee on guarantee. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 302 vote, 137 Members and Members, for 122, against none. We have ordered the proposal to be discussed by the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? It's not like that. I therefore note that the proposal has been directed to the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. And we will still be voting on the proposal to shorten the deadline, as Mr Stanjura has put it. The deadline should be reduced by 30 days to 30 days. I have begun the vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 303 vote, 137 Members and Members registered, for 33, against 66. The proposal to shorten the deadline has not been accepted and I am ending the first reading of this bill. I thank both the rapporteur and the appellant. Before we go to the next item, Mr Rykala apologizes today from 14.30, Thursday and Friday for personal reasons. Mr Milan Urban apologizes today by the end of the day. Mr. Josef Uhlík has been apologizing since 14.30 for personal reasons today. Mr Milan Šarapatka apologizes today from 15 to the end of the day for health reasons. Mrs Helena Válková apologises today from 14.30 to 15.30 for personal reasons. Mr Pavel Havíř apologizes today from 14:30 to 16:00 for personal reasons. Mrs Jitka Chalánková apologizes today between 15 and 17 for personal reasons. And Minister Martin Stropnický apologizes today from 4:00 p.m. on account of a foreign trip. That was an apology, and the next point of our meeting is point number
