ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-012-018.u1	18. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on Air Transport /German press 1037/ - second reading Both participants remain in their seats. I will ask the Vice-President of the Government and the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec to justify the point. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-012-018.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, colleagues, the situation here is a little different than in the case of other agreements, because the relations between the Czech Republic and Indonesia in the field of civil aviation are still being regulated. The Air Transport Agreement between the Government of the Czechoslovak Socialist Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia of 1972, including the subsequent amendment of the Annex. This agreement is restrictive and does not correspond to current developments in the field of air transport. Interest in negotiating a new air agreement was expressed by the Czech party in connection with the new activities of Czech air carriers on the Czech-Indian transport market, which are not covered by the existing agreement. The draft text of the new aviation agreement was finalised at the beginning of last year and the agreement was signed on 20 January 2017 in Jakarta. The new agreement has a liberal basis for the operation of air transport services by air carriers of both states, and the contradiction of the original agreement with European Union law will also be eliminated. The negotiation of this agreement does not require changes in our legal order and its implementation will not have an impact on the expenditure of the state budget. The Agreement will create new opportunities for the potential development of both direct and indirect scheduled air links. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to give your consent to the ratification of the agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-012-018.u3	Thank you to Prime Minister Richard Brabco. I will ask the foreign committee rapporteur, Mr Pavel Šrámek, to justify the committee's resolution on press 1037/1. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-012-018.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. The minister moved from the Dominican Republic to the Republic of Indonesia and very brilliantly described the contents of this agreement. Let me read the resolution of the Foreign Committee of the 36th meeting of 12 July 2017 on the Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic has given its consent to ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on Air Transport. After the reasons of Deputy Minister of Transport Rudolecký Rudolecký and the report by Mr Pavel Šrámek and after the debate by the Foreign Committee I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees to ratify the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on Air Transport; II. Instructs the President of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, III. Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to report to the Chamber of Deputies at the meeting on the results of the discussion of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-07-ps2013-060-03-012-018.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a debate in which I have no written application. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. There is no interest in final words either. We can therefore vote on the proposed resolution in the 43 order vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Czech Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 43 of the present 95 for 65, against no one. The motion for a resolution has been approved. We therefore agree with the ratification of the Air Transport Agreement, as stated. I'm done with point number one. 18, thank you to the Minister of the Environment and Prime Minister Richard Brabco, thank you to the rapporteur. We will continue with paragraph 19, which is a little different, it is a different quality of the international treaty, and this is a matter for the International Investment Bank. Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný is present, I will ask my colleague Leo Luzar - who is not here. I will therefore ask the representative of the Committee on Budgets to say who is ready in this context. The Foreign Committee is prepared by colleague Šrámek as an experienced rapporteur. I'll ask him to take the floor at the news desk. Now, let's look at the point.
