ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u1	52. Government bill on the status of public benefit and on the amendment of related laws (Public benefit status law) /German press 1005/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, Minister Dan Ťok will make a proposal on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister, take the floor. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me present, on behalf of Minister Pelikán, the bill on the status of public utility. The draft law is submitted following Act No.89/2012 Coll., the Civil Code of which Section 147 assumes that another legislation will regulate in more detail the conditions which a publicly beneficial legal person must fulfil in order to obtain the right to register the status of public utility in a public register. In particular, the draft law provides for detailed conditions under which a legal person has the right to register the status of public benefit, in particular as regards its subject matter of activity, the content of its founding behaviour and the way in which it is treated with profit. At the same time, it lays down obligations to ensure transparency of the management that a legal person with a public benefit status must fulfil if the status is not to be withdrawn. The draft law also regulates certain other issues relating to the status of public utility, in particular its withdrawal. The former bill was discussed in the legislative process during 2013, approved by the Government and the Chamber of Deputies. However, the Senate finally rejected the bill because most senators took the view that the proposed legislation would entail a significant burden on courts which should decide on the right to register the status of public benefit. Taking into account the results of the discussions with the authorities of the state administration, the professional public and the representatives of the practice, a draft law was prepared to introduce a private institute of public utility status (?) and, in itself, does not anticipate the continuity of any public benefit. However, this continuity is not excluded in the future. In particular, the status should be a kind of quality sign, confirming a public beneficial legal person for the purposes of private relations. The acquisition of status is based on the principle of voluntaryity on the part of its potential carriers. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The importance of status should be reflected above all in the following aspects: closer definition of public benefit with potential relevance for the whole legal order, increasing transparency and credibility of the non-profit sector, promoting publicly beneficial activities from private sources, simplifying the Czech view -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u3	I apologize, Minister, for entering into your speech, but I will ask the honourable House to keep your voice down and, in case you have something important you need to discuss to go to the lobby. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u4	Simplifying the view of the Czech non-profit sector from the point of view of foreign donors and other supporters. Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u5	I also thank and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Markéta Wernerová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u6	Dear Members, I would like to introduce you to the Government's bill on the status of public utility and on the amendment of related laws, i.e. the Public Benefits Act, House Press No. 1005. The minister for the petitioner presented a very detailed presentation of this law, which is why I would like to add only a few contexts. [[16.40 hours]] As has already been said, the Government's bill fulfils the authorisation of Section 147 of the Civil Code, on the basis of which public-service persons can apply for entry into the status of public utility and thus apply the law that the Civil Code has allowed for three years. On the other hand, it should be noted, however, that the non-advising opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government, which is subject to this, has expressed the status of public utility in order to attach specific advantages, particularly in the tax field. But given the fact that there is a social order for the status of public benefit and its determination for a very long time, I would like to recommend this press for further discussion in the committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u7	Thank you, Madame. I'm gonna ask you to take a seat at the news desk. I am opening up a general debate and asking who is applying for it. Please, you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, dear representatives of the Government, Mr President, allow me to comment on the Government's bill and comment on some of the issues raised therein. The Government's draft law lays down the conditions in which a publicly beneficial person has fulfilled the provisions of Section 146 of Law No. 89/2012 Coll., Civil Code, right to register the status of public utility. The proposal is intended to comply with the provisions of Section 147 of the Civil Code, which foretells its existence. The law should contribute to the possibilities of improving perception and increasing confidence in the non-profit sector. The chosen solution envisages that the judicial system is able to provide for the proposed modifications already in the current state. Increased attractiveness of Czech legislation and Czech legal forms of legal persons to realize publicly beneficial activities. The proposal will make it possible to simplify the view of the Czech non-profit sector from the point of view of foreign private and public donors and other supporters. The status of public benefit in this respect may play the role of a certificate that a legal person is indeed a public benefit. So much for the intention of the petitioner. However, there are a number of questions and doubts in the more detailed examination of the proposal in question. It seems that the aim of the law is probably to purify or legalize even problematic companies or parts of them, or to legalize their income. The focus of some publicly beneficial companies is also questionable. In my opinion, there are some fundamental issues that need to be resolved. Firstly, in Section 3, we are talking about withdrawal of status, respectively. on the re-allocation of public utility status if withdrawn. But the law does not address the reasons why he was taken away. For example, if money is being laundered through a public company, why grant it a status again. Is there a reason? Although the bill states that it can be awarded, it should be excluded directly, as should a natural person who was a statutory body. Another controversial moment is Section 5, which speaks of offenses against general bliss. Certainly, in the discussion that will take place in the committees, it would be appropriate for the petitioner to explain the misdemeanors in this case. The draft law states in Section 4 point Protection of Intellectual Property. I believe that there is no reason to establish such a publicly beneficial society. We have quite a lot of them, and thanks to them and the copyright law, illegal downloading of virtually anything blooms. The issue of preparing citizens to defend their country or take care of veterans also deserves a more detailed analysis. I believe that there is no need to create a system of militia that somehow prejudices this proposal, because we know from history that some things about this very problem have caused a lot of bad things. That's why we have the Army of the Czech Republic or active advances and similar institutions. As regards the care of veterans, I believe that it should be vaguely said that these are veterans who fought in the service of the Army of the Czech Republic. There are many veterans and, of course, it could also reach some who serve, for example, in various unauthorized foreign institutions. Plus, I don't think the veterans are cops or firemen. Other uncertainties arise from the definition of blameless societies and the proof of integrity. The company will submit an extract from the criminal record, but without the so-called deletion records. This means practically that this company will be cleansed, even though it has committed either an offence or even a crime. As far as the position of an organisation that is foreign to our Republic is concerned, this organisation will not be issued a copy of the criminal record or a similar proof of integrity and a notarized declaration will suffice. In this case, then, if it is later found that this declaration of honor is not based on the truth, and such a company, for example, drew grants or subsidies from public money, what will we do afterwards? Are we going to return them? What will be the penalty for such a natural or legal person? It is also unclear from the proposal how companies will be financed, applied for subsidies, tax relief, and so on. One more question I would like to mention is the honesty of resources. The petitioner here estimates that it will be based in particular on the accounts and the audit report. I would like to say that they have my admiration, because, for example, it takes the police or the state prosecutor sometimes even years to prove the true honesty of these revenues. Ladies and gentlemen, the question of the burden on the courts, if it were entrusted to the courts, is still up to date, because I believe that if the courts were to address these problems too, it would be a great burden for them. If this were not the case, it would require the creation of a completely new type of administrative procedure. In conclusion, then, let me make the assumption that I do not know if committee discussions will suffice. This bill has some weaknesses and, in my opinion, it might be more appropriate to return this proposal to the petitioner and discuss it later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u9	Mr. Ambassador, I just want to clarify, is that your proposal? It cannot be voted that it would be appropriate to return it to a recast. It is only possible to vote on the application for revision. So how does it sound... Is this a legitimately thought-out proposal to recast this law?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u10	Yes, to return the motion to recast the petitioner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u11	Okay, I'll put him to a vote. Thank you. Mr Jan Zahradník has a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u12	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, this bill certainly contains a number of different tricks that we can find there when we read attentively. And I'm just going to ask one such question at this point in time, whether the status of public benefit is worthy of such a legal person, for example, which consistently hinders the implementation of an important construction which is in the public interest. If we answer that question, we will also be able to make decisions about this law. Until we are able to give this answer, I think we should get back to the law and not pursue it any further.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u13	Thank you. Please, Chairman Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u14	Thank you for the floor. Unlike my previous speakers, I don't think the law should be returned to rework. On the contrary, I think it is necessary to discuss and accept it. And I propose that we shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u15	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Petr Kudela. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u16	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Madam Secretary, the proposal for a public utility status is also expected in a non-profit area. However, there have been comments which I think would be very good for the speaker, the Minister of Justice, to comment. Therefore, I propose that we interrupt the negotiations of this point in his presence so that he can respond to these comments, and then we could reasonably vote on whether to return the petitioner, or the law is at that stage, in this state, that we can discuss it and, if necessary, correct it at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-14-ps2013-055-09-009-052.u17	Thank you. This is a procedural proposal which I will put to the vote without debate. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. There's been a procedural motion here to interrupt... I'm registering a request for your check-out, so I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. There was a procedural motion to interrupt this point in the presence of Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 243; 109 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 40, against 50. This proposal has been rejected and we will continue to discuss this point. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I don't see an application. If so, in that case, I am ending the general debate and asking whether the appellant or the rapporteur wants to take the final floor. They're in a lively discussion. I ask you one more time, "Would you like to take the final word?" Okay. First, then, we will vote on the proposal that has fallen, and that is the proposal to return the proposed proposal to the applicant for completion. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 244, with 111 Members registered, for proposal 30, against 56. This proposal was rejected. So we will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion and first decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order a proposal to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see an application, so we'll take the vote. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the Constitutional Legal Committee as a guarantee committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with serial number 245, 113 Members and Members signed up, for proposal 110, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the constitutionally legal committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, and I ask whether anyone has any proposals on the commandments of the next committee or committees for discussion. I'm not registering any applications. In that case, we will vote on the last proposal that has been made in the debate, and this is a proposal to shorten the deadline to 30 days. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 246; 113 Members and Members are registered, in favour of proposal 67, against 18. I note that this proposal has been approved and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 5:30 p.m. on health grounds, Mr. Vojtěch Adam apologizes. And then on 14. 3. from 17.10 to 18.30 for personal reasons, Minister Daniel Herman apologizes. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
