ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u1	240. Government bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions of acquisition and recognition of competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and the pursuit of activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws (the Act on Non-medical Health Occupations), as amended (the House Print 880/ - third reading) I ask that the Minister of Health and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The amendments are set out in the Chambers of Press 880/3, which was delivered on 28 February 2017. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as the House Press 880/4. I am now asking the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened. The Minister is interested. Please, Minister. And a colleague who stands in that place, please make room. [[Mr Klučka]] Once again, I will ask for peace in the hall so that the Minister can give his speech. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the discussion of a government bill amending the law on non-medical health professions at third reading. I would like to start by repeatedly stressing that the aim of the proposal is above all to stabilise and improve qualification education for non-medical health professions while contributing to increasing the number of the most sought-after non-medical health professionals in the Czech health sector, which is today, as you all probably know, general and child nurses. [[It's very noisy in the hall.]] One way to achieve this goal is to allow for greater penetration of study programmes for certain professions. In particular, it is proposed to extend the possibility of obtaining professional qualifications for the exercise of the profession of general and children's sisters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u3	Minister, I'm sorry to interrupt. We're discussing the third reading of the law! We have an important vote to make. Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u4	Thank you. The practical nurse, medical paramedic, midwife and child nurse will thus be able to obtain professional qualifications by a short-term study at a higher vocational school. It's the famous 4 + 1. In practice, it will look like that the said health care workers will be able to count part of the previously completed teaching and after successful completion of the admission procedure they will be admitted to higher education than the first year of the field of diplomated general nurse. This short-term course of study is fully in line with the Directive on the Recognition of Professional Qualifications and with the Education Act. As regards the profession of a child's sister, the proposal will allow for the qualification of a diplomad child nurse at a higher vocational school or a bachelor's degree course at a university, and not until after graduating from a specialization study as before. [[9.30 hours]] Furthermore, the same model of short-term study at higher vocational schools as with the general nurse will be established if the candidate is a practical nurse, general nurse, medical assistant or midwife. It is also proposed to include a practical nurse, which is still called a medical assistant, among health professionals who can pursue a profession after obtaining competence without professional supervision. On the other hand, a new training obligation is introduced if a health professional or another professional has long interrupted the exercise of a medical profession. On the contrary, the proposal abolishes the credit system to control lifelong learning, which did not play a sufficiently motivational role and was not effective. At the same time, the current register of health professionals eligible for the exercise of a medical profession without professional supervision is hereby repealed, as a National Register of Health Workers is established, which will be part of the National Health Information System, in which all health professionals will be registered and which has been established by an amendment to the Health Services Act with effect from 1 July 2016. A very broad debate was held on the proposal in the Chamber of Deputies, which resulted in a number of amendments. I would like to say to them that I can support those who are of a technical and specific nature, which is most of the changes proposed by the Committee on Health, and those which maintain or support the principles pursued by this amendment, which is stabilization, improvement and attractive education for non-medical health professions. I will, if necessary, comment on specific amendments during the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I believe that the government's proposed changes in the education of non-medical workers will lead to greater motivation for this education and will further facilitate the exercise of certain professions in practice, which could also give us a certain stabilization of the work in this area, which we all, who work in the health sector, want very much. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u5	Thank you, Minister. I am opening the debate on this point. Mrs Soňa Marková, who I am giving the floor to, has been the first to join the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u6	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice day, Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, dear colleagues. Allow me to speak for the KSČM parliamentary club on this bill. We have a third reading of the long-awaited law ahead of us. It was originally to be submitted at the end of 2015 with effect from January 2017. The proposal aims primarily to address problems related to the education of nurses. These problems occurred after the Czech Republic acceded to the European Union and was forced to introduce higher education for nurses in the form of higher vocational or university bachelor's or Master's studies. So far, fully qualified graduates of high schools have become health assistants who do not have some of the necessary competences and cannot work independently. This extended the education of nurses with full competence. For interest, 581 graduates of higher vocational school and 1 019 graduates of Bachelor's degree successfully completed their studies in 2014. But in 1994, it was 5 147 general and children's sisters. Along with a lack of salary and wage evaluation, an increase in bureaucracy, a challenge of the profession in the form of physical and mental stress, as well as the required exchange rate, inadequately assembled nursing teams, where the general nurse often succeeds in the work of assistants and nurses, and sometimes with the problem of the media image of general nurses, we have the main causes of a lack of nurses in hospital care facilities. Unlike Denmark, Norway or Switzerland, we have barely half of these sisters. In particular, between 2010 and 2015, 1,300 nurses and other nursing staff decreased in Czech hospitals. According to the survey, general nurses take third place in prestigious occupations. However, this is in complete contrast with the fact that compared to average earnings of five of the most unappreciated professions, they are getting off the hardest together with primary school teachers. It is clear, therefore, that the best law on education cannot immediately change the situation for the better. And frankly, unfortunately, this proposal is not one of the best in the end, even though it has been discussed for so long. The sisters themselves, and we have witnessed many turbulent discussions on the Health Committee, have failed to agree on a final form today. Above all, the requirements from practice were brought in by the educational model 4 + 1, which is now seriously questioned by part of the professional public precisely because of the reduced education. It even points out a possible threat to the quality of nursing care provided. In a letter from the Professional and Union Union of Health Workers from 26. 10. It is even noted that if model 4 + 1 is approved, it will contact the European Commission with a request for review. It also embarrasses the fact that it is not quite clear what the last year of education will look like. I did not get a very clear answer to my question in committee. It is also often pointed out that pupils and pupils with lower levels are now applying to health schools, while in the past they have only been there with honours. This, of course, also reduces the level of graduates or graduates. Unfortunately, this is also a sad fact in other secondary schools, after an uncontrolled increase in the offer of high school seats, but there are fewer leaving pupils, the entrance exams and even uniform graduations have been cancelled. We're going back to these things today. Other problems of this law are seen by the professional public in the lifelong learning system. If the proof of lifelong learning is approved by the employer, it is necessary that this be done on the basis of a certificate of participation in an educational event agreed by the professional organisation. It shouldn't be a matter of private agencies. Actions included in lifelong learning should be organised by health institutions, social services and pharmacies, manufacturers of medical aids and pharmaceutical products. The approval of such an event should be decided by a professional committee, such as the Czech Association of Nurses, composed of representatives of nonmedical workers' professions. The recipe for addressing the lack of medical health personnel is not simple and it is clear that it is not enough to change only the way of education. It must be a complex of measures consisting of a reduction of compulsory administration, a corresponding financial evaluation, a new setting of competences for university-educated nurses, which can take over part of the competences of doctors, but also the funding of health insurance companies must be set up for this, and it is also necessary to have an adequate nursing team. Another burning problem needs to be solved at the moment. Indeed, there is discrimination against employees and hospital workers depending on the hospital they work in. Employees working in business companies have, on average, 18 percent less on their payrolls than employees in contribution organisations. Differences are particularly marked among nurses, when a nurse from a hospital has a business company a month of 6,000 on paychecks less than her co-worker in fellowship organizations. To ensure that the salaries and salaries in hospitals are unified by the amendment to the Labour Code is what we can do right away for staff stabilization in health care. That is, to fulfil the right of every citizen of the Czech Republic to quality health care. [[9.40 hours]] The adoption of a really good law on education is, of course, an important but long-term solution. This bill, which took so long to arrive at this third reading today, raises more questions than it offers consensus solutions, including the fact that this law did not eliminate the double-trackness of education and instead added another college, another educational model. Despite all this, the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia MP's club is prepared to support this proposal, including some amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u7	Thank you, Madame. Mr Vít Kaňkovský will be next in the debate, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will be prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u8	Mr President, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I have read several models of possible training of pharmaceutical assistants here in the second reading of this bill. The amendments are now under points F1 to F5 in the procedure of voting. I had already announced that this was due to the instigations of a part of the pharmacy community, which announced that there were many difficulties in the field of pharmaceutical assistants' education and that we now have a really significant lack of this profession. I also announced that between second and third reading we would discuss professionally with the pharmacies community whether any of the proposed models were acceptable to them. The discussion took place, it was quite long and demanding. Finally, it turns out that the majority pharmacy community does not accept either of the proposed models, so I would like to propose that amendments be withdrawn under points F1 to F5. I think this will also contribute to simplifying the voting procedure. I therefore ask the House to withdraw these amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The rapporteur nods her head, marks your proposal and presents it in the vote on individual proposals. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will now appear in the debate, Mr Leoš Heger will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Minister, colleagues and colleagues, allow me to comment on the draft law on non-medical health professions on behalf of the ODS. It is a law that we see as a crisis law that addresses the current situation on the health market and seeks to address it in a way that is probably the only possible from the point of view of the speed of the solution. On the other hand, it must be said that the law is actually wrong in principle. He solves the current crisis situation, sends nurses to the medical profession that go through a different option of education, so he doesn't remove the problem we have, which means the double or triple-track education, and comes from the reversed end of the matter. These things are to be dealt with in such a way that when education is created, there must be a link to the labour market. There must be demand for this profession in the labour market. We have set up higher education for nurses, depending on the wishes of the European Union, but we have not created work for them at all. We're in a situation today that nurses, whether they graduate from medical school, a bachelor's program, or a master's program, actually have the exact same job content. We are in a situation where the education of nurses at the Bachelor's and Master's level does not really make any difference. The girls who graduated from the Bachelor's program are studying the same thing again in the Master's program simply because there is no link to what the work process will be. So we resigned from the fact that college-educated sisters could replace expensive doctors in a number of cases and processes, that we could change the composition of health care workers, as is common in some countries. I myself came across this when I was working in Italy, where we had college-educated sisters who worked on tasks that, in our concept, are tasks for doctors. Despite this objection, we believe that it is necessary to support the existing bill simply because we need to resolve some of the current problems. I'm just pointing out that all laws currently adopted will be negative at the same time, their weakness will manifest itself. The big problem I see is that the composition of the applicants for health schools is quite different than it was ten years ago, and it may be difficult to get enough of their resulting work. I would therefore like to stress that the Ministry should not, by currently solving a problem, fall asleep on laurels, and that there should be prepared another not even a novel, but another, new concept of education for non-medical health workers, because there are a lot of unfinished business. What is primarily to be defined is what is the work load for which type of education. At this point, we will achieve that the Bachelor's Nurse and perhaps the Master will do the same work, which certainly was not the aim of amending the Higher Education Act and is not the aim of this Act either. It has to do with what my colleague said in front of me about pharmaceutical professions. I understand the withdrawal of points F1 to F5, because the relationship problem between different types of education is exactly the same with those pharmaceutical assistants, but by working more on it, they actually have come to an agreement that they are not able to agree on the existing form, and they will also need to define clearly which type of education includes what kind of activity. I draw attention again to what I said yesterday - activities are changing. Medicine goes up in development and the need for specific education is increasing. We can't resign and bring it back to the fact that all of us - I'll say it very simply - sisters will only do the physical care of the patient. We have to count on them to move somewhere else, but we have to create space for them. Thank you. I repeat once again that, in principle, we will support the whole of the bill, of course, we have some other vote on the amendments, but we will support it as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. She will now speak in the debate with a factual remark from the rapporteur. Please, you have your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u12	Thank you for your word. I'll just respond, by your means, to a colleague about competence. I agree with him completely that some competences could be taken over by nurses, but unfortunately, doctors do not like to give up their competences. When we start discussing this, we rather encounter the problem that doctors do not want to give their powers to those sisters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u13	Thank you, rapporteur, for keeping time excellent. Mr Leoš Heger will be next in the debate. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Good morning, Madame, gentlemen. Allow me to speak on behalf of the TOP 09 and the starosta on this bill. It is true, and it has already been said by the previous speakers, especially Mr Svoboda, that the law is not perfect. At the time he was born, he created a huge revolution and great confusion that had settled for a very long time, and the law is also very hard to read because there are some things on the leap, hidden in different chapters and it is simply a difficult matter. The law that we have put forward here as an amendment makes things a little bit better. It is difficult to make the law perfect in one round and undoubtedly it will have to continue to improve, but this time some positive things are present. [[9.50 hours]] What I see as the most risky is not the 4 + 1 system for nurses' education. It is an experiment that will be settled for a long time, it will have to be observed and adapted to all executive measures available to it by the Ministry, in particular as regards the question of the content of the activities of the different categories and in respect of further vocational training, which is governed by government regulations for nurses. So there is room outside the law or within the law, but in an executive area the law should be further regulated, and the Ministry should have a department that is dedicated to this issue as a department of one of the strongest. This is certainly a very important task for the next ministers. The risk I see in the change in education is not so much with those sisters, because we will continue to have university sisters and will undoubtedly be interested in them by students, but the law originally created a new graduation profession as a medical assistant in 2004, a profession that will now be rationally renamed a practical nurse, which seemed impossible a few years ago, and threatened that the European Union has a sister as a diplomat and that it will not pass, now I am glad that it will pass, and we will therefore have a practical sister. The question is, how many will we have? There are already very few medical assistants, because their involvement in hospital departments is very weak, because they cannot work independently, and therefore everyone is either leaving the health department or going on to study and not considering education or subsequent practice as attractive. In that law, it had to be said that health assistants would be able to work independently. The law says so, but the combination in area 4 + 1 education, i.e. that the attractiveness of the practical nurse will be reduced by the fact that probably the vast majority of graduates of the study of the practical nurse with the vision that he has one year of superstructure ahead of him at a higher vocational school, will go into the sister's profession of qualified, diplomat nurses. It is good, perhaps it will strengthen the volume of our full - blooded sisters, but the auxiliary practical sisters will most likely disappear and we will sneak back to a state that was here 20 years ago, when the spectrum of the sister's profession was not at the lower end complemented by those helpers who do lower nursing work, and once again qualified sisters will be in a situation where they will have nothing left but to do lower activities that they might not have to do. I don't want to worry about it, I said it's an experiment that needs to be monitored, it needs to be fine-tuned during the law by executive measures to eliminate these risks, and that's why I'm talking about them here. Allow me to make two more references to the amendments. This one concerns the proposal made by a colleague of Kaňkovský to withdraw changes in the nomenclature of pharmaceutical assistants. I must say that one of the problems of the existing law still remains the occupational nomenclature, in particular that individual levels of education do not have a uniform nomenclature, so that the assistant is higher or lower, and, on the other hand, the laboratory technician above or below, but to make it consistent. It's messed up, the personalists had a huge problem with the 2004 introduction, and now everyone who enters the health service has it, instills in themselves how it is with the individual professions, and patients are no longer familiar with it. The only option, if possible, is to make a radical change and to rebuild it all into some logical structure, to no longer interfere with that nomenclature, because the confusion would return to some starting point. So I hereby thank my colleague Kaňkovský for stepping aside from the intention. The last thing I say is to draw attention to my amendment under points E3 and E4 which suggests that lower health professions should not be burdened by the legal obligation of lifelong learning. With all due respect to the ambulance drivers, the ambulance drivers, I believe that, as the Labour Code commands every employer to keep an eye on the quality of his employees, that this is sufficient for those professions to be familiar with the innovations in their activities, and that is the responsibility of the employer, not the workers themselves, while lifelong learning in all administrative and organisational complexity, is justified in order to remain reserved only for the higher professions, which must stand up for people who are in their own way more creative and self-oriented and have greater responsibilities. There, therefore, the exception to the obligation of lifelong learning for these health professionals is quite appropriate; the lower ones, I think, are not appropriate. It is not a deadly matter, but it would reduce it by a piece of health administration, which is very demanding. And if that law passes, it will be good, if it doesn't, I must at least commend the law in that it is partly already reducing the administration, and unlike the previous speakers, I think it is very appropriate to reduce the administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Let me read the apologies quickly. Mr Josef Kott apologizes for attending the meeting 26. 4th from 16.00 to the end of the day for working reasons. She also apologizes to Mrs Zuzana Šánová from 16.30 to the end of the sitting day and 27. Mr Jan Hamáček apologizes from 9.00 to 13.00 from today's meeting for working reasons and finally Mr Marek Černoch apologizes for working reasons from 9.00 to 10.00 and then from 14.30 to 17.00 today for working reasons. Thank you. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will also speak in the debate, Mr David Kasal will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u16	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear members of the government, dear colleagues, I would like to say that, in principle, in this law, as with the Act on the Education of Physicians recently, we are correcting the gross error made by the Ministry of Health and the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate in 2004, when the relevant laws on the education of doctors and non-medical education were adopted. By this law in 2004, practically from day to day or from year to year, the expertise of the practical nurse and the girls who graduated from secondary school became mere medical assistants. As a result of this degradation of secondary education and expertise, a practical nurse was gradually decreasing the quality of high school girls. The level of accepted students fell because girls with better education when she saw that high school education would not be enough for them to obtain a practical sister, so she continued at grammar schools and then got into higher vocational schools or directly at university. This law corrects that. But the path to correction will not be short. Like the law since 2004, it has gradually done a lot of damage in Czech health care, so the remedy will take several years. Of course, there will also have to be some adjustments to the curriculum in secondary schools to gradually increase the intensity of teaching in secondary schools, which, of course, also adapted to those girls who have been entering secondary schools over the years since 2004. And of course, there will be some tension between graduates of both secondary schools and graduates of higher vocational schools and universities, because, of course, sisters who have received higher education or higher vocational education will feel underrated and want greater competence, which has been mentioned here, and will also want better evaluation. But in principle, this law corrects the gross errors that occurred in 2004, and that is why we support this law. I would just like to mention the two amendments that were made to the recommendations of the Health Committee. It is Amendment C1, which concerns behavioral analyst and his assistant. You all got a negative opinion from child psychiatrists. Please get acquainted with this position and then make a decision in your vote. The second amendment, which, in my view, does not belong to the sphere of correction of errors and should not be accepted, is Amendment D1 and D2. He's an assistant to traditional Chinese medicine. You have also been given a doctor's opinion on this. We all see the general support for the introduction of Chinese medicine into the Czech Republic. The health committee was also in Hradec Králové and visited the traditional Chinese medicine clinic. And when we wanted to get information on how the treatment was going, basically we were told that there were two basic packages. Such a basic package with six acupunctures plus some supplemental tea treatment, or extended, where the package was ten acupuncture plus some more tea. I do not think that because of this and because of what is planned in the Czech Republic in the development of Chinese medicine, it is not necessary to accept any special profession or other category, say non-medical, as an assistant to traditional Chinese medicine. [[Is it?]] I believe that this is not part of this law, and unfortunately I cannot support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr David Kasal will be next in the debate and Mr Rostislav Vyzula will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u18	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, let me first propose legislative technical amendments to my Amendment 5857 at the beginning of my speech. It concerns the removal of the comma in § 21c para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Furthermore, in the proposal as a second legislative technical correction, three new professions are involved. Each has its factually summarised paragraph and in the profession of assistant he accidentally got an additional word assistant, and for this reason the word assistant of § 29a para. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Now let me comment on my amendment, and on the short entrée. In principle, we Members are blamed that we do not work systematically. I think you can see for yourself here that it was the other way around. At the beginning of our term, mothers who have children with autistic spectrum disorder, and not one or two years, but ten or fifteen years, turned to the fact that this situation is not at all addressed. They turned to the Prime Minister of our Republic, who, as a result, created or recommended the creation of a government committee to deal with issues of autistic spectrum disturbance in these people, not only in children. This government committee has been meeting regularly at the Office of the Government since 2014. The result of this effort was, and I would like to point out, contrary to what has been said here, through Mr President, from Mr Hovorka, that the Government resolution number 111 of February 2016 was created. This was preceded by the meeting of this committee. There was a proper reminder procedure, which was attended by the Ministry of Health, Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, Ministry of Education, Ministry of the Interior, there was also a representative of pedopsychiatry professor Paclt, there were clinic psychologists and there were all those involved in autism until then. As a result, the adoption of the ten-point programme was precisely in the resolution of this government, the government regulation, sorry. [[objection from the right]] And we went to defend him in the government. It ended at 8:00. This resolution included solving this situation and offering systemic solutions to children with autistic spectrum disorder, and one of the methods is ABA therapy. Nobody here says there's no other method. But this method - we have the advantage that the situation has not been systemically addressed with us, so we have the advantage that we can use knowledge from abroad, because this method is used in the US for example for thirty years and is based on medical records-based medicine, for other colleagues based on evidence. So it is clearly stated that using this method we have clear results of the work that are documented. As far as the method itself is concerned, and as I said it was part of this programme, a number of other issues have been resolved. And one part of it is actually the creation of a learning program. I would like to say that those groups that are against it, so I understand them, I have nothing against them. It is at a time when there is not one single ABA therapist in the Czech Republic that meets international standards, so I understand that those groups who do not de facto know it must oppose it. I also understand the groups, and I thank them for this, in a situation where it was not managed by the state and they participated and they gave a helping hand to parents who had children with an autistic spectrum disorder, so at the moment they are entering a new player on the market, and it is of course unpleasant for them, because, as you know, it is quite interesting business, because one hour's examination of an autistic child costs CZK 4,000. I'm not talking about therapy. [[10.10 hours]] As far as setting up systemic issues is concerned, it is for children throughout the Republic to have the same possibility of equal treatment, that is one thing why I propose these amendments. And for another, the method based on the evidence based medicine has a 47 percent confirmed improvement in the condition of these patients. And take it that there are currently rumors that there are up to 200,000 people. That means another 200,000 moms or dads have to accompany them. Of course, it depends on the condition of the disease. And in this case, if it would help not 47 percent, but 30 percent of people, it's huge savings that we don't have to put into the social system and when we can put these people in a completely normal life. Therefore, I beg you to support my amendments concerning this area, because it is only a splinter that is in the systemic solution to the whole issue of this situation in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. If you have your legislative technical amendments in writing, I would ask you to give them to the rapporteur. I believe that these are admissible adjustments, and we would then vote on them under point 1 in the framework of the procedure. The rapporteur will make a note of it. Mr Rostislav Vyzula will be next in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u20	Mr President, thank you. Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Let me also say a few words about this law, which is coming to an end in the House. Mr Svoboda here said the law is wrong. I would fundamentally disagree with this, because we have been very thorough in the health committee on this issue, we have fine-tuned what was needed, because the proposal that came from the Ministry of Health was not entirely real. And I think we've actually managed to bring the legislation closer to practice if it's approved. I mean, let's just look at what we actually want as legislators. We want to make laws for people, not laws for laws. And here we make laws for nurses, for non-medical professions. We can talk about Lex nurse, maybe. And sociological surveys show that most nurses don't want a college education. They simply want a high-quality high school education and this way 4 + 1 is a sort of temporary option to achieve this. Of course, it's not that simple. Just because we approve this law does not mean that secondary health education will be of good quality. Therefore, I would appeal to the Ministry to act as we have called on the previous Minister to deal intensively with the Ministry of Education to change the curriculum of secondary health schools so that those schools are really good quality. But this needs to be done not continuously, but rather quickly. I have a good feeling about what came out and what we are now presenting to you as a health committee, as a guarantee committee, as well as from the other amendments and laws that the health committee has put forward here. I think we're doing a lot and we've managed to fix a whole range of things in health that past regimes or past governments have managed to destroy in health care. One last comment about traditional Chinese medicine. I think a lot has been said about it, that I've written a lot about it, too, and that you've made your point. And I just want to stress one thing. We here basically want our people to be protected, to protect consumers against scumbags, who today and daily in the form of various charlatanism, healing, questionable healing abuse the trust of desperate people, who then pay outrageous amounts for it, and who don't know what they're paying for. It is for their protection to ensure at least a certain quality of this care. I know it's not a very simple subject. It's pretty controversial, it's challenging, and if we approve this proposal, it's a breakthrough, but it's for the good of our people. Therefore, I would also ask you in this case for support. And thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I have a few factual points to make before the debate. Mr Leoš Heger, then Mr Vít Kaňkovský, then Mr Bohuslav Svoboda and Mr Ludvík Hovorka. So, the first point of fact, Mr Leoš Heger. You have two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u22	Thank you for the floor. I already tried because I wanted to make a comment on my colleague Kasal and ABA therapy. I am a big fan of special education, where the whole issue also belongs, not only in psychotherapy and in health care. But it is well known that you can make a two-year-old artist out of a special upbringing, make him a tennis player, or at least increase the likelihood of him becoming something extraordinarily superior. I say this in a very positive way, even in the context that autism has been clearly named in recent years, it is in a way seemingly on the rise. Probably these people have always been among us, but now it seems that there are more of them than we thought, and that by some intervention in childhood, their lives can be improved. I hesitated whether or not I would support the amendment. I decided to support him, and I would say one of the reasons why I didn't want to support him, and why, if this proposal goes through, there's a need to continue working with the whole problem. It's like sisters. They do not have in the law that they can continue to specialize, but it is dealt with by a sub-legal standard in the way of a government resolution. And then they can become different ICU specialists and stuff. We don't have anything like that in psychotherapy, even though there are specialists, and this proposal makes one of the specialties, the psychotherapy, an exception. [[Attention on time.]] Then you need to make sure it doesn't end up in the Senate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u23	Thank you. Another factual point, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. And there was a factual remark from my colleague Kaňkovský for a moment, but it was probably a system error. You have a proper application, is that it? So, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Let me respond by your means to my colleague Vyzula. He said in the first sentence that I declared the law wrong. It's completely misunderstood what I said. I'm saying that the law solves the crisis situation and that the right thing would be to do it backwards. Not from what a medical graduate is supposed to do, I understand that she has to work with a patient to the extent that she has been doing for many years, but that we should be concerned with making a job for university-educated health professionals, Bachelors and Magists in order to create a job for them that corresponds to their education. So that's the essence of what I'm saying and why I'm criticizing the proposal. He's dealing with a crisis, but the principle why it came up, the principle that college-educated women don't have a job that matches their qualifications, we don't solve that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another factual point, Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u26	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Colleagues, Colleagues, I have one more request for the Minister. This law solves the fundamental correction of mistakes that have happened in the past, but it does not solve one important thing, and that is to correct the sisters having registration. According to the level of education, nurses have registration. Every health institution needs registered nurses if it wants to carry out its activities, and they must meet certain conditions of education and practice. And as there were different categories of nurses' or physiotherapists' education, they have to renew their registration today and it's a rather lengthy process. And those who do not have the appropriate education must study for the considerable resources and time they must put into this to obtain the title of registered sister. It can be handled administratively through the Ministry of Health, but it's very difficult. I therefore ask the Minister to try to resolve this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. And now, with the factual remark of Mrs Miloslava Rutová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u28	Hello, colleagues. I would like to ask you very much if we could support Mr Kasal's amendment. And I'll tell you right away for what reason. I worked with disabled children for 20 years, and there were enough of those kids who unfortunately had this autistic spectrum disorder. Those kids are drug-muffled. And at present, in the West, it is the method referred to by my colleague, Kasal, that is being used. I really think it would be for the support and good of such disabled children, but not only children, but also teachers. Because you know that we have passed the inclusion law, and children with this kind of disability are in normal school attendance. They have their assistants, but working with them is really, really hard. And I would ask you very much if there is a way to correct these children in a way other than medicine, if we could support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u29	Thank you, Madame. And now, after a block of factual remarks, Mr Vít Kaňkovský will speak in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u30	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, first of all, I will make a brief comment on Mr Kasal's amendment. I must say that his activity towards improving diagnostics and therapy not only for children with an autistic spectrum disorder is certainly good, and I have no objection to that. What is the problem, however, and this was indicated in their opinion by child psychiatrists, is that behavioral analysis is just one of the new modern methods for treating autism. And if, at this point in time, we put only this one sector into the law on the education of non-medical workers, I consider this to be unsystematic and problematic in the future. So for these reasons, not because we would reject this method. Not at all. I think it is necessary to introduce it in the Czech Republic, as it is introduced in many states. But I think that this solution to new modern methods of diagnosis and treatment of autism needs to be prepared comprehensively and not merely segmented. For these reasons, the KDU-ČSL will not support this amendment. And I would like to call on my colleague to think with his colleagues in the Senate, if necessary. And I think that if he is here in some way - and maybe by your means, Mr President, he will correct me - as if he was making a little less of the position of Czech child psychiatrists, then I think we should not do this. This means that I want to challenge him or ask him if he would still associate with the children's psychiatrists and colleagues in the Senate and not try to modify this amendment so that it really is a complex change and not just one section of those modern methods. So much for this amendment. Finally, allow me to express my opinion on this amendment as a whole to the KDU-ČSL club. The KDU-ČSL Club is prepared to support the 880 House Press, even though we believe that it cannot solve the current unhappy situation in the field of non-medical personnel in our health care. We have struggled with financial problems in our health care for a long time. I don't think we're gonna tell ourselves that this isn't the case anymore. But what can really endanger the quality of health care in the Czech Republic in the future are personnel problems. And these are personnel problems for both medical and nonmedical personnel. We need to take a number of steps to motivate young people to be interested in working in health care. And it's not just about the funds. Today, young people have a wide range of ways in which they can be realized in their lives. And being a paramedic is one of the tough jobs. Therefore, if we do not only improve the financial and social prestige of health professions, we will not get out of this very difficult situation from the point of view of lack of staff. So my appeal to the Ministry of Health is that, in addition to this amendment, which has done a great job, and it is certainly the first step towards improving the situation in the field of non-medical personnel, to seek further conceptual steps to end up not dealing with the really big health crisis in terms of the personnel shortage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr David Kasal will speak. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u32	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Through Mr President to Mr Kaňkovský. I don't think you listened to me, Vítek. I said it was a system solution. And I'm very surprised. I'll say it again: there's been an internal review procedure where pedopsychics were present. And it reminds me of the situation where we discussed the education of doctors here, when something is agreed, there is a resolution and it is done. And we do basically what the government has given us. And all of a sudden, just in the finals, some groups suddenly start to realize that it's gonna disrupt their business, and they're gonna start talking. We've been dealing with this issue for two years. It's interesting that at that time pedopsychiatric society didn't deal with it, virtually. Her representative, Professor Paclt, was there, and he agreed. Now I don't understand this rhetoric. And now, in general terms. The design that is, it's not the yawn. This is the general introduction of education into our system. So let's not confuse terms in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for keeping time. Now, with Mrs Jana Hnyková's factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u34	Thank you for the floor. I'm just gonna keep it short. Please, the only thing I'm worried about is when gentlemen start arguing with each other like this, so that what was our goal in the end, that is. to change the conditions for nurses, their education, didn't fall under the table. Please discuss this outside of this House and let us decide by voting to improve the training conditions of the nurses, remove senseless continuing education, collect credits and pay for them. This is undignified for our sisters. And I would like to ask you to put an end to this discussion and go ahead and vote and move on with this law. Thank you for all your sisters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u35	Thank you, Madame. You have been the last performer, so your wish to conclude the debate will come true. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in getting off. If not, then I am done with the debate. I ask the plaintiff if he is interested in the final word. [[He doesn't.]] The rapporteur is interested in the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u36	First of all, I would like to thank all members of the Health Committee and non-members in my final opinion. I would like to thank all colleagues who have helped us and do not sit here. I want to thank the Ministry of Health, Mrs. Strnadová's main sister, who worked with us on this, the whole group, who worked on this for two years at the Ministry of Health as well. I agree with my colleague Hnyková by means of you that I would very much hate for two years' work to fall under the table because of one amendment. I hope this doesn't happen, and that if we approve this place today, it won't come back from the Senate. There are three groups fighting against each other about Dr Kasal's amendment, and I really think that these groups should talk each other out of it and not put it at the last minute. Once again, I will repeat to all that we are not interrupting the university education of nurses. Any nurse who wants to work abroad can finish college. It really concerns high school students who will not have to listen to the same thing for two years at higher vocational schools and universities - credit systems, collecting points, education and often listening to things that don't say anything to those nurses - is another step that health professionals are very welcome to take. And when I introduced this law here on July 26, 2016, at first reading, it wasn't a populist gesture, as it was said that I said hello, girls, it's here, and I'm going to repeat that after nine months at last, I believe that we're going to get back the education system for nurses as they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u37	I thank you, rapporteur, and we will proceed to the vote on the various amendments. I will call my fellow Members and ask the rapporteur to return to her seat to introduce us to the voting procedure and then to present the various amendments and to give her opinion on them before the vote, respectively. the opinion of the guarantee committee. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u38	Thank you. I would like to introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Health of the 45th meeting of 8 March 2017 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, as amended, House printing 880. [[Act on non-medical health professions]] The Committee on Health recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic as a guarantee committee after consulting the draft law after second reading The Chamber of Deputies shall vote in third reading on amendments tabled to the Government Bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions of acquisition and recognition of competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and the pursuit of activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, as amended, in the following order: First of all are proposals for legislative technical adaptations pursuant to § 95 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure presented at third reading. As a further vote A1, A2, A8 to A25. Another separately A3, A4, A5, A6 and A26. B1 to B8 will be unvoted because they were identical to the amendments of the Committee on Health A21, A22, A5, A6, A13, A14, A26, A3. In addition, B9, B12 and B13, C1 to C3, C4 to C6, D1 and D2, E1 and E2, E3 and E4 will be voted separately. C7 - if accepted, will be non-voting A7, B10, B11. Here I will note that there were still points F1 to F7 which my colleague Kaňkovský withdrew. If not accepted, A7 shall be voted. If it is accepted, it will be unvoting B10, B11. If not accepted, we will vote B10 and B11. Next, we will vote G, and if it is adopted, H will be unvoting. If it is not accepted, we will vote H. And for the last time, we will vote on the proposal as a whole. It seems complicated, but it's not that complicated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u39	The procedure is not complicated, but it is certainly not simple. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby one more time. [[This is the messenger. Freedom.]] We have already concluded the debate, my colleague. The procedure? [[Yes.]] I will just ask, perhaps it would be appropriate to vote in the beginning of Mr Kaňkovský's withdrawal, so that we can have an overview of what we are voting on. Now for the procedure, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u40	My proposal is simple. I would like E3 and E4 to vote separately, not together.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u41	Yes, I marked this proposal. And now, if the rapporteur agrees, I would have put to the vote that the House would agree to withdraw Mr Kaňkovský's amendments. [[Yes.]] I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal for the House to agree to withdraw the amendments. Who's against it? This is a 427 vote, 162 Members signed up, 151 for it, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Then we will adjust the voting procedure accordingly. And now we would vote on Mr Liberty's proposal so that points E3 and E4 are not voted on together, but on their own. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In the vote 428 162 Members signed up, for 149, against 2. This proposal was adopted. I have not noted any further proposals for changing the procedure, so after these two votes, i.e. in the form of the procedure presented, minus the amendments taken back plus the division of the E3 and E4 votes, I put to the vote who agrees with the procedure proposed. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting 429, 162 Members registered, for 152, against no one. This procedure has been approved and I will ask the rapporteur to show us the individual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u42	Thank you. We will therefore vote as the first item in the proposals for legislative technical amendments, because they have been tabled by Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u43	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] That guarantee committee couldn't express itself. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of these legislative technical amendments. Who's against it? This is a 430 vote. 162 Members signed up for 155, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u44	We will now vote on points A1, A2, A8 to A25. And these are modifications having a legislative technical nature.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u45	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 431. 162 Members registered, for 154, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u46	We will now vote on paragraph A3, which is my amendment. It's about releasing the child care of midwifes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u47	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 432. 162 Members registered, for 135, against 4. This proposal was also adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u48	We will now vote on paragraph A4, which is the amendment of Mr Heger. It is an orthoptic student who will be able to work without professional supervision after one year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u49	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 433. 162 Members registered, for 154, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u50	We will now vote on proposal A5. It is once again my amendment when the amendment proposing amendments to terminology is accompanied by the word 'intense'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u51	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 434. 162 Members registered, for 150, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u52	We will now vote on points A6 and A26 together. It is my amendment when I propose that a medical paramedic be able to work alone without professional supervision or provide urgent care after only one year in the field of acute bed care or emergency income. And A26 is a provision that does not apply to effect before the date of acquisition.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u53	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 435. 162 Members registered, for 152, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u54	We will now vote on paragraph B9. It is my amendment, when the first written part of the probation exam will also be able to be passed in English, French, German or Russian, but the practical part will continue only in Czech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u55	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 436. 162 Members registered, for 151, against no one. This proposal was also adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u56	We will now vote on points B12 and B13, which is my last amendment, and it is a proposal to introduce a new expertise in the profession of chronic wounds and how to achieve its expertise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u57	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] Committee opinion? [[He doesn't recommend it.]] I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number 437. 162 Members registered, for 7, versus 127. This proposal has not been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u58	We will now vote on points C1 through C3, which is Mr Kasal's amendment. It is a proposal to introduce new expertise in the profession of behavioral analyst, behavioral assistant and behavioral technician and how to achieve his expertise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u59	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] Before the vote, I'm registering a request for your resignation, which I'm going to grant, and I'm going to ask you to re-enlist with your cards... The number of votes has stabilized, and I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of the proposal. Who's against it? This is vote number 438. Registered 158 Members, for 80, against 31. This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u60	Thank you. Next, we will vote on points C4 through C6. It is Mr Kasal's amendment. This is a solution to the legal status of pharmacists who have acquired professional qualifications in the Slovak Republic in the period between the breakup of the federal state and the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u61	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] I can see it, I can see it. I'm reading from the O.R. that there's a check on the previous vote. We'll wait to see if an objection is raised, because the result was close... or accurate. [[He's waiting for a while.]] And now we see an interested party reporting in. [[A commotion in the hall.]] My colleague Kudela has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm shocked because it didn't happen to me... [[Laughing in the hall, applause.]] In accordance with my sheet and my colleague's instructions, I voted unambiguously in line with the club's position as negative, and I have an A on the high as a pro. So I'm questioning the vote. I apologize for this complication and for the delay, but the sheet is a sheet and I really always hold onto it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u63	We're in shock, too. I will vote on this proposal without debate, rapporteur. So who - with priority rights Mr. Chairman of the KSČM Club. Please. And please calm down in the hall, there's a vote on the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u64	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, along with a number of you, I am in shock. We've been used to voting here for years in accordance with a parliamentary promise based on our conscience and consciousness, not on some sheet and so on. [[Questioning reactions from the benches. They applaud the members of the YES.]] I just want to remind you that despite the changes that have occurred on the Czech political scene, nothing has changed here, and neither will the rich. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Vice-President Benda, who will perform, also has priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u66	I'm so sorry, but I have to respond to my colleague, Kováčik, however much I respect him. Let's stop making fools of ourselves. We all know that we cannot all know what the vote is about. Let's not play with any absolute hypocrisy here, that each of us knows at every point what we're voting on. [[Let's hear it from the right.]] Of course we have colleagues to follow. Of course, when someone is an expert in health care, I listen to him, and when someone is an expert in agriculture, I listen to him, and I don't pretend to be the smartest person in the world, and I always vote in accordance with my conscience and every question I know where my conscience is going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u67	Thank you. The rapporteur also has priority rights. She wanted to get off, I yelled at her. Does he have anything else to say?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u68	I was just scared, like, if you're in shock, if you want me to intervene as a paramedic. But you don't look like one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u69	Thank you. So let's go back to what we have to vote on. First of all, we will vote that the objection will be granted. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is the vote number 439. Registered 158, for 146, versus 5. This proposal was adopted. So we're going to repeat the vote. Please, rapporteur, once again, about the introduction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u70	We will therefore vote again on points C1 to C3 of Mr Kasal on the proposal to introduce a new expertise in the profession of behovioral analyst, behovioral assistant and behovioral technician and how to achieve his expertise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u71	Opinions have already been made. I'm registering the check-out request. I didn't sign you off until now, so please. [[After a little while.]] The number's settled at 145. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 440. Registered 155 Members, for 76, against 32. This proposal has not been adopted. If there's gonna be a vote-check again? I beg my colleague and colleagues to be patient. [[The vote is being reviewed.]] This is my colleague Kořenek, who I give him my word. And I'm asking for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u72	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize to all my colleagues. I voted yes, and I'm not on drugs. I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u73	Yes, the objection was made clear, and I will immediately put it to a vote. Who is in favour of us complying with my colleague's objection? Who's against it? Voting number 441. 156 Members registered, for 145, against no one, the objection has been accepted. We shall repeat the vote on this point. I think we all know what we're voting on. We don't have to lecture again. Please, rapporteur, at least say the numbers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u74	We will vote again on point C1 through C3. You all know what's going on, so I'm not gonna say it again.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u75	Yes. I'm re-recording the check-out request, so we'll recount. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the proposed amendment. Who's against it? This is the vote number 442. 152 Members registered, for 81, against 32. This proposal was adopted. We will continue, rapporteur, it seems. I ask for peace in the hall so that we hear the rapporteur speaking for the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u76	We will vote on points C4 through C6, Mr Kasal's amendment - dealing with the legal status of pharmacists who have acquired competence in the Slovak Republic in the period between the collapse of the federal state and the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u77	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommends.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 443. Registered 157 Members, for 154, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u78	We will now vote on points D1 and D2 together. It is an amendment by my colleague Vyzula and it is about introducing a new expertise in the profession of the therapist of traditional Chinese medicine and specialists in traditional Chinese medicine and how to achieve its expertise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u79	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] Committee opinion? [[Recommendant.]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is the vote number 444. 156 Members registered, for 111, against 22. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u80	We will now vote on points E1 and E2 together. It is the amendment of Mr Heger. This is a modification of the description of the originally proposed accredited qualification course from the embryology course to the course of the laboratory method in assisted reproduction.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u81	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is the vote number 445, registered by 157 Members, for 148, against 1. This proposal was adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u82	We will now vote separately on point E3, which is the amendment of Mr Heger. This is a clarification of the obligation of lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u83	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating vote on proposal E3. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 446, 157 Members registered, for 22, against 109. This proposal has not been adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u84	We will now vote on point E4. This is also a clarification of the obligation of lifelong learning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u85	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 447, registered by 157 Members, for 29, versus 98. This proposal has not been adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u86	We will now vote on point C7, which is the amendment to point A7, and it is the abolition of the amendment to the proposed paragraph 2, the pharmaceutical assistant after six months in the field of pharmacy, and also the repeal of paragraph 2, as amended, of three years under supervision. This is an amendment by Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u87	The plaintiff's position? [[Recommendant.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Recommendant.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting number 448, registered by 157 Members, for 138, against 10. This proposal was adopted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u88	Since this proposal has been adopted, points A7, B10 and B11 are non-voting. We will therefore continue with point G, which is an amendment by Mrs Chalánková, and it is a re-entry of artetherapy into Law 96.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u89	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 449, 157 Members signed in, for 22, against 69. This proposal has not been adopted. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u90	We will now vote on paragraph H, which is the amendment of my colleague Benda. It's a re-entry of artetherapy into Law 96.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u91	The plaintiff's position? [[Unadvisable.]] The position of the guarantee committee? [[Unadvisable.]] Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 450, registered by 157 Members, for 33, versus 66. This proposal has not been adopted. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u92	Since we have exhausted all the votes, we will now vote on the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u93	I will therefore make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's proposal for Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, as amended, pursuant to the House of Press 880, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." [[Act on non-medical health professions]] I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Voting 451, registered by 157 Members, for 140, versus 1. This proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. I'm ending this item and handing it over to my colleague. Thank you for your cooperation. Thank you to the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u94	Thank you so much, everyone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-002-240.u95	Good morning, dear colleagues. The next item is:
