ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u1	7. Proposal for confirmation by the Chairman of the mandate and immunity committee I am opening point 7, which is a proposal to confirm the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. According to Article 50 (2) (a) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Article 4 (1) (a) (s) the Rules of Procedure shall be endorsed by the Chairs of the Committees after the I would like to inform you that the mandate and immunity committee has elected its chairman, Mr Stanislav Grospič. I open the debate and ask if anyone wishes to speak. Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u2	Good morning, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. A few moments ago, most members of the mandate and immunity committee chose as chairman of this committee of Communist Member Grospič. Since yesterday, I have heard from the Communists, of course, but also from the SPD and the ANO movement accepted words such as "Doctor Grospič is a lawyer, an expert, he has already worked in the mandate and immune committee or at the IDA." All excuses for encouraging a Stalinist to lead this committee. That is why, before the vote, I would like to introduce you to several of Mr Grospič's remarks, which have been heard here on the microphone and which, if you do not believe me, you will find in the Chamber of Deputies' log. On February 11, 2011, when the parliamentary bill on the anti-communist resistance was discussed, I reminded and quoted here from this law - this law, which was in force at the time and is still in force - I quoted this passage: "The Communist Party of Czechoslovakia was a criminal and reprehensible organization." And I have called on all those discussing this point to say whether or not they were members of this criminal organization. Mr Grospič, Dr Grospič, a lawyer and expert, said the following words: "I am not ashamed that I was a member of the Communist Party of Czechoslovakia before 1989, and I am proud of it. I believe that I will continue to be an active member of the Communist Party, and I am far from politicizing and political courts over that history. And just for those who wrote this law or copied this law from the Senate, look at how you yourself are" - meaning us who suggested it - "you define the participants of the anti-communist resistance. The parallel with a similar example in history, which needed to be written by Nuremberg laws, is quite obvious." So Dr. Grospič compared the anti-communist resistance law to Nuremberg laws, he must know, he's a lawyer. Four months later, Mr Grospič had a long speech on the same bill. And I quote only a few selected sentences from this three-page speech: "Yes, every social regime" - now my commentary, meaning our democratic republic - "has heroes. And if he doesn't have them, he has to make them up, he has to make them up. And this government and Members" - meaning the then government - "also say they have to pay for them. I would like to say that every development and every historical stage has its own rules. Sometimes development repeats itself." And he reminisced as an expert in law. "And I spoke here in the first reading of this Act on parallel with Nuremberg laws. Resistance between 1948 and 1989, if it existed," if it existed, "was directed only against the Czechoslovak political and constitutional system. Yes, the individual or group resistance of the population against the regime was also manifested during the postwar years, but the designation of the third resistance is not appropriate here, nor is it for the anti-communist movement of the 1950s to use it. This resistance sometimes had forms of armed action, but mostly the actions that were directed" - and now listen carefully - "directed against the repression of human dignity, glorified murders and were directly bribed by foreign military services. The question needs to be asked," continued Dr. Grospič, a lawyer and expert, "whether the people who have committed this activity," that is, an anti-communist resistance, "who are to be glorified by this law, did not fulfill the nature of treason, and how such people would be dealt with in any other country, including those famous Western democracies that you refer to today in the bill." And he ended his speech with this sentence: "The proposed Act on the Third Resistance is a spit in the face of all honest people. " When I read it and hear it again, I'm just as upset and outraged as I was six years ago. So anyone who votes in favour of Mr Grospič today must be ashamed - of course, with the exception of the communists, of course, I understand that. According to Dr. Lawyer and expert, an experienced Communist Member, the Third Resistance Act is comparable to Nuremberg law. Those who fought against the Communist regime were treasoners of bribery by foreign military services. I firmly believe that this candidate will not win the majority in this Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u3	Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u4	Mr President, my lords and gentlemen, I wish you a good day. That's how we started today. I didn't think Monday would happen again, but I can see that it might. Please, I'm putting myself in a good place against anyone who stickers each other in any way. We have now heard that a fellow speaker has called Mr Grospič a Stalinist. Well, we have different stickers. I'm not bringing them all up here. But I want to beg. Mr Grospič is a Member of the Chamber of Deputies elected in the Central Bohemia Region. He was elected, on the conditions that are after this year's election, quite a large number of electoral votes, and any questioning or labeling of him is also a spit in the face of the voters who elected him. And if we allow equality for citizens, equal rights for all citizens, especially in relation to the right to choose their representatives in parliamentary democracy, I simply insist that any labeling of this type is a spit in the face of voters who have chosen any of us who are dehonested in this way. On the contrary, I would like to ask that not only those communist Members or those Communists sitting here in the Chamber of Deputies, but perhaps the former Communists - you know that, the only party where there are no former Communists is the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. They're almost all in it, aren't they? They may not be with the People's Party, but there's something else. And maybe the Pirát. There are too young to be there any former member of the KSČ, pre-November KSČ, could already be in terms of age. But please, nicely, if we want to stand up in this parliamentary term together in nine parliamentary clubs and in interactions between them and, say, the House, government, society, citizens and not be evaluated as a government again, or the House, which was just arguing about its internal relations, or arguing between individual political parties, whether we want to be evaluated, that we have finally started doing something for citizens and not just for ourselves, please, let us drop these mutual disputes and arguments. In my opinion, the fights are about the thing, not about the people who are around it. I have a number of reservations about a number of you, colleagues and colleagues. With my colleague Kalousek, who is reporting for me here, we have enjoyed many disputes and clashes. Mr. Stanjura, as well. Isn't that right, colleague, through the President? But this must not prevent us from doing anything other than searching for flies on one another at the moment when it is necessary for the Chamber of Deputies to move forward for a month or more after the elections. My colleague Grospič - he was quoted here, so his speeches here were quoted. I have recently heard in another similar dispute, where there were reverse signs that everyone has the right to their opinion. I therefore ask that the right of opinion be left to my colleague Grospič, to my colleague Stanjur, to my colleague Kalousek and to any of us. Let's respect each other and not just target each other with some disgusting attack. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u5	President Kalousek, then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u6	Thank you for the floor. Hello, honourable Members. Through the President - I did not understand you at best, Mr Kováčik. It did not happen here that President Stanjura would question the parliamentary mandate of Dr Grospič or deny him the right to an opinion. He merely quoted Dr Grospič's speech, which, I think, quoted authentically, and based on Mr Grospič's statement that he was proud of his membership in the Communist Party before 1989, he stated that Mr Grospič was a Stalinist. I don't think there's a flat sticker or an attack. That's just a statement of fact. If you call me a religious Catholic based on my attitudes and my participation in the services, I will not be offended either, because it is true. And in no way do you question my mandate or my right to an opinion. Given that the President of any committee, i.e. the mandate and the immune, confirms the Chamber of Deputies, this is quite a serious act. And I would like to thank President Stanjur that, in particular, to new colleagues who do not need to be so familiar with the position of the candidate for the chair of the mandate and immunity committee, he has mediated his positions, his views. None of us is entitled to take his right to these views, but it is a good thing that any of us who vote on him should know these views, be familiar with them, and know how he or she will lead his committee. That's all this was about. It wasn't about labeling or insulting, it was just about adding the necessary information to our choice. Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u7	President Bartošek, then Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to speak to President Kováčik on your behalf. You said the folks were a different chapter, you're right. It's impossible not to look back, to say yes, Communists, it was the party that murdered our members and closed them down. Unfortunately, that's just the way it is. And for a while, we have become a party free because of the way you treated not only our side but also this country. [[12.00 hours]] We need to remember these historical contexts. And there is also one thing that needs to be realized at the same time, and that is that a person has been elected to the leadership of the mandate and immune committee, who has been, if I have good information, nominated by the SPD and the ANO movement. I can only assume that this is indeed the ground plan of the new coalition that is being formed here. And that's regular. It must be said that there are parties in opposition and there are parties in the coalition. That's just political reality. But don't be shy and publicly say yes, the ANO, the SPD and the KSČM are coordinating the elections and taking positions in committees together, so they know that. Let them know, members of the YES movement. I know a lot of decent people within the ANO movement, for example. are not fully identified with the fact that the joint procedure is coordinated with the SPD and with the communists, with the KSČM. But that's nothing to do with anything. Just say it publicly, please. Don't play hide-and-seek around here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u9	Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, Mr. Chairman Kováčik after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u10	Mr President, colleagues, I am glad that Pavel Kováčik here said that stickers should not be given, that we should not be personal. I very much welcome this, and I hope that the Communists will stick to it in particular. For example, Minister Herman isn't here, and what we've heard about him from your side, so I think he's exactly the same definition you criticized. So I'm not gonna be personal, and I'm gonna talk about what happened here. I repeat that it has been declared out of the ANO movement, which has still not called a meeting of all the clubs represented in the Chamber of Deputies, so that we can agree on how the committees will be divided. Of course the YES movement won the election. We accept it. But it doesn't have more than 50 percent. That means they must have more votes. Apparently, he's getting those other votes from the SPD and the KSČM. In that case, if KSČM has also admitted that it is considering supporting the minority government of the ANO movement, then it cannot act as an opposition party. The second thing that's here. At first it was declared by the ANO movement that no one showed interest in this mandate and immune committee. At a time when various versions of how the committee should be organised, which parties should have the chair of which committees, because we have definitely never heard of it, are said to have already agreed on mutual support, that they already have a voting coalition, it has become clear that the opposition is able to generate a candidate for the leadership of this committee. The moment the regular opposition, because I do not consider the KSČM from this point of view, the moment the regular opposition has its candidate, suddenly there is another candidate proposed from the ANO and SPD movement, which is from the KSČM. And therefore, probably the KSČM will have two committee chairmen if they have already been promised another, because originally they should have one committee chairman, and suddenly they will have two committee chairmen. We don't really know. But if that's the case, then it doesn't exactly match the conditions of the election. That means, compared to the parties that had a better result, they're going to have two anyway. The less will be left to the opposition. I think everyone has the right to an opinion. I don't think that means that the opinion is right. I'm sure we can argue about that. But I think it's good to have some facts. And I'll just welcome it if the discussion isn't personal, it's factual. But I think it should also apply to those who suggest it. Everyone should start on their own.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u11	There. Now there are two factual points. President Kováčik, then Mr Filip in fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u12	Thank you for the floor. Only to Mr Bartošek through you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, I wanted to save the people from old friendships, even from the National Front, you know. [[Laughs in the hall.]] As far as the myth is concerned, we're declaring support for some emerging government. I have to disprove again. None of us spoke of supporting the emerging minority or any other government of the ANO movement designed. We are not even dealing with this. Neither do we, aware of our somewhat lower electoral outcome, with no one else on the emerging government. So please, if we have ever expressed our views on this government, we say, if it is worse, we can tolerate such a government. We can talk about it if we tolerate it. But there's no way that we've ever said, and we're not even thinking about supporting such a government. And the coordination that President Bělobrádek was talking about. You know, in the last parliamentary term, the government of the ANO movement, social democracy and KDU-ČSL coordinated until it coordinated where it coordinated. So today, in the assembly of the Chamber of Deputies and its institutions, it may sometimes seem to be coordinated not only with you but also with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u13	Mr. Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u14	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, I would like to refresh some of the historical memory. Here we discussed what belongs to the opposition and what belongs to the coalition. Coalition doesn't come out here. We're in a set-up meeting. And if I wanted to remind you, for example. The request that the supervisory authorities be in opposition was valid for a long time. The principle of proportional representation in this Chamber of Deputies has always been rejected. It was only the outcome of the 2002 elections that led him to make his way here. And I want to remind those who talk about the mandate and immune committee, about the control bodies, for example. Of course, the mandate and immune committee had the then government coalition in 1996 to 1998, Dr. Čerbák of ODA, part of the government coalition. As well as the use of operational technology by the Police of the Czech Republic. ODA, which was also part of it. The inspection committee didn't even exist back then. The battle for the Supervisory Committee took place three parliamentary periods before it was established. And we argued here, please, in 2002. We have already argued that at least the systems are comparable in the EU. Take a look for example. to Denmark, where there is a control system that we could take over. In the second term of 1996 to 1998, in the two-year term, which ended infamously early elections, the mandate and immune committee was led by Dr. Anna Röschová from ODS. Part of a government coalition. The Permanent BIS Control Commission - Mr Bašta from Social Democracy. So please let us use true arguments in this argument, even at press conferences, but especially here in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u15	President Faltýnek, then Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, President Stanjura, President Kalousek, all factual. I brát Mr. Michálek's application as proper. So if he doesn't want to be factual, he'll get the floor after he's exhausted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u16	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. I didn't want to perform, I'm sorry about that. However, a few numbers. Here it still sounds from the side of KDU-ČSL on their jolly press releases that we don't act, we don't work, we babble. And how are we supposed to work, act, and not bullshit when this side right here is sitting at the same table with the Communists and the SPD? That's just a fact, Mr. Vice-President, ex-boyfriend. That's it. But I don't want to be personal. We have chosen the tactics of bilateral negotiations with all subjects. And if we're based on the math that 17 committees are here without organization, according to the results of the ANO election, he's entitled to seven. We let go of one, a mandate, because we said from the beginning that the opposition should have one. Four block or K blok of Mr. Kalousek, four. And he'll have four. Pirates two, SPD two, communists one, social democracy one. That's where it's all solved. I don't know why we're still arguing here when we've de facto all agreed bilaterally. [[12.10 hours]] And as far as the Vice-Presidents of the House are concerned, you all know that, according to the election results, our movement would be entitled to two, if we agree, I don't know, I don't want to assume that we're going to have five Vice-Presidents. And we don't want one. Make sure there's a proportional representation in the House. So KDU-ČSL press releases, happy, cramped - they really amuse me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u17	Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u18	Mr President, colleagues, I will respond by your means to President Faltýnek. If you were really listening to that fun press conference, you'd know that we didn't refuse to deal with all the MPs if it called the ANO movement. That's a lie, please. We merely refused to go to a particular meeting that was without ANO movement. That's right. But that's completely different. So please listen better. I hope you like it, so at least listen to it, maybe you didn't have time for it. As far as the KSČM is concerned, cooperation in the National Front was such that out of our 46 Members emigrated in 1948 10, 12 were imprisoned, of which 4 were tortured or executed: Sochorec, Broj, Plesl, Janáček. Communists were violently appointed by a former disfellowshipped member as chairman. Cooperation, as you imagine it, and what you call cooperation in the National Front - we have, of course, worked together in the National Front before 1948, as well as national socialists, social democrats. And members of these parties, such as the National Front Milada Horáková, and many others, including social democracy, ended up in prisons with heavy prisons for over 10 years, being tortured or executed. I think that we certainly cannot call such cooperation free, and we certainly cannot call it something that should be used to entertain the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u19	Thank you. President Bartošek, then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u20	Two reactions, by your means, to President Faltýnek. Either you deliberately lied or you didn't listen. But this is quite crucial information, and it is important that you know, and today I publicly said that you weren't, because you promised, because you promised to convene a meeting of all the representatives of the parliamentary parties, and you didn't. And we said that if you call this as the winner of the election, we will come with the participation of all the parliamentary parties. So make sure you're on your analytical or PR team, so you've got good information, since you're already public. And the second thing about President Kováčik. I don't see him anywhere. But the historical facts here were told by Pavel Bělobrádek. I can only say for myself that I am sorry that social democracy does not act in the same way. It shows easily on the people's side, but it must be said that even members of social democracy were murdered, tortured, arrested and forced to emigrate. I think it is time that social democracy began to mention its history because it is a part of it and cannot distance itself from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u21	President Stanjura, then President Kalousek, President Faltýnek and President Fiala - all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u22	We see how the debate - in our opinion it was supposed to be political, we hear here about the crimes of communism, then we have a candidate who is proud to be a member of the party that committed crimes - moves us to such 17, 7, 4, 2, 1 - we have surrendered. You say one committee, President Faltýnek, through the President, for the Communists. But if you vote the same way you do on the mandate and immune committee, it'll be two. The message is, and I understand it, and I'm not complaining. I just want to make it clear that the YES movement has given up the leadership of committees for the benefit of the communists. That's the voting coalition we're talking about, and you're just ashamed to admit it. After all, we repeatedly said that when the committees, or committee chairmen, the House's leadership, are occupied, very often, the standard procedure is that it is in a majority way, a government coalition will arise, which draws on what the House will look like, the cross will be assigned by the inspection committee or committees, and the rest will give opposition. Here, of course, and I heard it yesterday from Radek Vondráček: we are actually in a minority, we are unable to enforce anything. If it were true that the election winner has eight opposition parties against each other who don't support the election winners, then there's no way the election winner is gonna make a move here. But the reality is different, we saw it in the election committee, we see it in the election of the mandate and immunity committee, we will see it in a moment when we elect the President of the Chamber of Deputies. We're all we want: don't be ashamed of it. You're in a gang, you're voting together, yes, SPD and Communists. That's just a fact. Who suggested Mr Grospič today that I do not offend anyone at the head of the committee? SPD with YES support. So what bothers you when we're telling the truth? I just wanted everyone who wasn't here in 2011 to know what their views would be if you voted for him, the newly elected chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. If there was any resistance, they were traitors, they were paid by imperialist headquarters, and they were awarded to the victims of communism five days after November 17th. We're five days after November 17th. Which one of you was there, remembering the victims of the Communist regime? [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] And today for those who say it wasn't, and yet they were traitors and were paid, you're ready to vote. And that's it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u23	Thank you, but I'm really asking you to keep time so it doesn't look like I'm keeping someone up. I've got to keep everyone in the same place. I've got to warn everyone if time goes by. Two minutes for President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u24	Thank you for the floor. I would like to respond to Mr Filip and Mr Faltýnek's lords. Mr Filip emphasized that in the past, the mandate and immune committee has always led the opposition. No one's questioning that. I would also like to remind you that the Democratic bloc, which is undoubtedly an opposition, has proposed Mr Gazdík and Mr Grospič for this position. And let it be said that who and why voted in favour of Mr Grospič and who voted in favour of Mr Gazdík. Nothing more, nothing less. Now we will have the opportunity to repeat the vote publicly. On Mr Faltýnek's statement that the Democratic bloc is Kalouskův's block, I wish to say that, unfortunately, that is not true. Because if it was Kalouskův's block, if it was the block I proposed last November 2016, there are 48 members of the Democratic bloc sitting here, but there are 80 members of the Democratic bloc sitting here. It would have been without Kalousek, because I suggested that I would not be on a joint candidate, but YES would not have won elections, and the future direction of this country would have been determined by democratic parties, not by the ANO movement in cooperation with the SPD and the Communists. That would be Kalouskův's block. This is how we have the Democratic bloc, which was designed only for election purposes by Mr Farský, the author of the agreement is ODS, President Fiala, and we are happy to join. When we talk about blocks, let's always remember who designed what and what was real.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u25	Mr. Faltýnek, for real. After that, President Fiala and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u26	Thank you for the floor. I, through Mr President, would like to thank Mr Kalousek for his reply to the President of the Democratic bloc. But in my performance, I forgot one important thing about why I actually came here, and to say this for colleagues who are here in the House for the first time, I am actually here for the second term, or also briefly, but perhaps those who have been here longer, such as Marek Benda, could remember, and this is more of a request to these colleagues, if there was ever a situation when a committee at its first session came to an end and chose its chairman, that the House did not accept this president, so that we did not establish a new tradition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u27	President Fiala, then President Kováčik and then President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, of course I didn't want to perform, but I am responding to the first speech by President Faltýnek, because some things need to be set straight. If you have actually chosen the method that you are acting bilaterally, this method did not lead to success, virtually. You did not bring her to an end because you actually held such negotiations with us, the Civil Democratic Party, but we did not agree on the definitive form of the House of Deputies. You did not invite us to any negotiations last week, we did not know what you had in mind about the configuration of the Chamber of Deputies, and we do not consider such negotiations to be successful or reasonably conducted. On the basis of this, the Democratic bloc was created, call it whatever you want, but it is an association of MPs for the purpose of the elections at the constituent and other meetings, nothing more, nothing less, and with this Democratic bloc we have again offered you negotiations, and I think it was a meeting at which we could agree on the configuration of the Chamber of Deputies. You, President Babiš, have written to me that you will not come to such a meeting, I have no choice but to respect it. And I understand that you don't have to go there either, because you obviously have an agreement on the composition of the Chamber of Deputies, the ANO movement has it with the SPD and the Communists. I have no choice but to respect it, I understand that you have agreed this way, it is to some extent okay, although I may not like it, but let's not pretend that you wanted to deal with everyone here, that we could agree that we were not acting, that you respect the results of the elections, that the Chamber of Deputies would be organized according to some proportional principles. Well, it won't. You've decided to deal with the Communists and the SPD, you've got a majority, you can beat this whole place. Well, beat it, we'll take it, but spare us the hypocritical talk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u29	Chairman Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u30	Thank you for the floor. And I was the one who wanted to perform. [[Laughs in the hall.]] Because I just don't want to keep listening to the Stalinist stickers, the undemocratic side, etc. etc. Oh, what a crime, the chairman of the mandate committee, was elected a communist and also a Stalinist! Ew! And you and the communists are talking about this House starting to work. Work, right? Don't bullshit me, Mr. Babiš. Ew! What else is ew. In my opinion, the election winner invites you to a meeting. Not anyone else, even though they have more noble motives atp. So it takes everyone to deal with everyone. Let's put aside the pointless stickers that belong to the deep past, let's stop stretching here all the time, and speaking of blocks, please, let's just get down in the blocks and vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u31	We will certainly be able to do that, but only after the applications have been exhausted. Mrs Válková, Minister Jurečka and then Deputy Prime Minister Bělobrádek, still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u32	Mr President, dear colleagues, I just wanted to point out, as a member of the mandate and immune committee, that this committee's negotiations are not public under its Rules of Procedure, and I am surprised that some of the more experienced colleagues are operating here, at least they are expressing themselves, the information that should not be the subject of this Chamber of Deputies' negotiations, and we should discuss and approve here, or vote only on the resolutions which are intended for these purposes under its Rules of Procedure. So that's my first point. Secondly, I saw that I was here by chance the first woman to speak, and I am quite shaken by the incorrectness that echoes here, and by politicizing what doesn't have to be political at all, and I join those who want to finally start working in the House. I personally very much wish that I could discuss the proposals that will be presented to us in the Constitutional Legal Committee, which everyone who has made it to the House claims to be included in its programming statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u33	Minister Jurečka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u34	It sounded like a bunch of times: let's work, let's make a deal, let's unblock these things. I have actually heard the President of the Faltýnek Club officially out loud today for the first time today, so what does the winner of the election have in mind which committees to which political parties will belong in the Chamber of Deputies according to the number. I did not know exactly the division of these committees according to their focus and names, but I would really like to ask you here as the winner of the election: What you promised 14 days ago, please fill it up. Bring together all the elected parties who are in the Chamber of Deputies, ideally at the level of Members' Club Chairs, to discuss and tell what will be the idea of the agreement that Mr Vondráček spoke about on Monday, through Mr President, of what the division will look like. Four years ago - for all of you who are newly elected - at this time, we were clear about which committees, including the Committee Vice-Presidents, would belong to which political parties. And we could have saved this discussion. So I'm just calling on you, unless what has been mentioned here several times, that there is a coalition of YES, KSČM and SPD, and I understand that such a coalition can politically decide that it takes most of those committees and gives the rest to the remaining opposition parties, which we did four years ago as a coalition, but those opposition parties knew in advance, and that's just what the agreement was. So I'm just calling you guys out here when we're talking about the work and the work - is there such a problem, please, to call one meeting, and there's a deal to be made? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u35	Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek and then President Faltýnek. Still factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u36	Mr President, colleagues, through Mr President, yours, yes, I agree, President Faltýnek, especially not to lie. President Kalousek is not the President of the Democratic bloc, that is not true. Otherwise, I would like to say that it is clear to me, because we do not know to this day that the KSČM will not have a committee that is budgetary? Because it was declared to have it. Or will they have two? I'm not quite sure. You've read more or less that she should have one, so in that case, she'll probably be free of budget. As far as new traditions are concerned, I think the YES movement has introduced many new traditions. For example, one of them is that there is a House meeting and it is unclear what the number of committees will be. At the last meeting, it was not yet clear whether it would be 18 or 17, if it is clear, I do not know it as the President of one of the parliamentary parties, because I have not been told. As for the appearance of Mrs Válková, they also escaped things from the Security Council of the State, perhaps through your members. As far as sex is concerned, according to some theories, sex is just a social construct, and right now I can also feel like a woman, so it's sometimes complicated. And I don't think to politicize on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, so I don't know why you're here but to do politics. I think politics is fine. What's different is politics. And I think that's exactly what the YES movement is doing. Instead of really having these matters resolved long ago, so that the YES movement, as promised, would bring together all the parliamentary clubs, and that is where we agreed, this has not happened to this day. It's a managerial failure, and I don't think there's much to talk about, and we could have voted, acted a long time ago, and we could have gone to the government's statute. Although it is not yet clear, and it is also a new tradition that there is a government that has neither tolerance nor support nor much, which is a really interesting tradition. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u37	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u38	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to cause another wave of debate here, and because I suspect I'm gonna summon her, maybe I won't even say it. However, if we listened to each other at those meetings, which were 21 with all the subjects in the House, with some more, with some less, we do know who was sitting at those meetings, including representatives of the ODS, KDU-ČSL etc., that each club told its priorities, and we were simply trying to find the intersection of the priorities of those subjects. And it made me feel like we'd found the penetration corresponding to the number. When I give specific examples, the ODS, but I ask Zbyněk Stanjura not to respond to this, if possible - so he simply said that for them the priority number one committee of the school committee, two of this, three of this, etc. And so it was for everyone. And I think we've found some compromise in relation to the number that belongs to the individual clubs based on the outcome of the election. But if you have a different opinion about it, then I'm really sorry that I didn't make it, but I do believe that there is a consensus here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u39	Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u40	Mr President, fellow Members, Mr President, by your means, President Faltýnek, I think you know how you are thinking about this, but somehow you forgot to tell us. I've been to these meetings, and we've said our priorities. And because we assumed that we would be running one committee, we said about three or four, and to this day I don't know which one you assigned us, which one you gave us. That's why it makes sense for you to at least e-mail it to us when you don't want to call a meeting and deal with it in person, and then tell us what you're thinking. I still don't know if the Communists are supposed to have this committee and they're supposed to have a budget committee or not. I don't know what's left of us. So I think it's quite obvious. And there is no doubt that failure, and I appreciate your self-esteem and self-criticism, and I would ask you to introduce us to the way you agreed, because we still don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u41	President Fiala, indeed, then President Faltýnek and then colleague Gazdík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u42	I, President Faltýnek, through Mr President, really only very factually. If we're sitting in a meeting and you and your colleagues are there with me, you're going to say that the school committee probably isn't, because you're assuming that one of your people should be, then three hours later at a press conference, you're going to tell me that the school committee is probably going to be ODS, and three days later, we don't think of the defense committee that you told us earlier that it should look to us - I really don't take that kind of behavior as an agreement. And it's, I confess, a negotiation I don't understand. But I don't want to go back to the past and the complexity that was here. It is obvious that not only me and the ODS representatives who were in those negotiations are not understood by the result, they did not understand it as an agreement. We hear it from representatives of other political parties. So if there is such a problem for the winners of the elections that I fully respect, that is, the YES movement, to invite others or all the political parties in this Chamber of Deputies to the meeting, then leave it to me, I will do it, we will all meet and agree on the composition of the Chamber of Deputies. But I'll do it on the condition that you come to a meeting that I invite you to. If you don't, I beg you once more, invite all the political parties in this House and let's agree on some sensible agreement. Or at least let's try to make a deal and save ourselves a lot of time and a lot of bitterness that's going on in these speeches today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u43	Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u44	I promise for the last time. President Fiala is essentially proposing a system: let's put everything in one pile and fight for it. We have chosen another system to ask all subjects to say their priorities. As far as the KDU-ČSL priorities are concerned, it is the second meeting that took place, so the priorities were: the Education Committee, Economic, Foreign and European Affairs. When we look at the priorities of other bodies and their number of Members in the House and I see the demand of ODS with 25 Members on their priorities, which are the following... I'll just find it, I've got a lot of records, but if I remember correctly, the absolute number-one priority is education. Then security, defense, and then the constitutional committee. I think I'm saying it right. In the debate with KDU-ČSL, of course, a clear offer was made from our side - and the name fell there - by the Committee on European Affairs, Mr Benešík. Because Mr. Benešík, in our opinion, and we all agreed on that, the committee has managed well for the last four years. So let's not lie to each other, folks, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u45	Mr Gazdík, then President Stanjura, Mr Rakušan, Mr Hájek, Minister Jurečka and President Bartošek. All factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, I think that for the public who is watching this, it is an absolutely absurd theater that cannot be understood. Few of you new Members know that the focus of professional work lies in committees. And it's not quite simple - as a double president of the MP's club, I know that I had, for example, 11 doctors in the MP's club and everyone wanted to go to the health committee, where we had four seats. If committees are to be occupied in a meaningful way, they must also be occupied in some way professionally. I don't understand health, and I can't go to the health committee. Many of you don't understand the budget, they can't go to the budget committee, but they're experts on something else. And that's what we're arguing about right now. We miss that so far no one, I don't know if Members of the Yes, but the rest of us certainly don't know which committee which one of us can go to. We in the Mayors and Independents do not yet know which committees we will be in, because we do not know which committee is supposed to have members. I think this is a terrible situation, which is why I would like to publicly ask the election winners to actually convene this meeting, to spare the public of this absurd theater, and to come up with some result of the negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u47	Now President Stanjur has withdrawn, so Mr. Rakušan MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u48	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to briefly review what the negotiations look like, for the smallest parliamentary club here in the Chamber of Deputies. Yes, we were invited to the YES meeting, and Mr Vondráček and Mr Faltýnek actually listened to what we would have imagined. And we said, "We realize we're the smallest." Our demands are not great, we do not have the demands to lead the House, to the President, Vice-President of the House, we want membership of the committees. We have shown the YES movement how the numbers are unfairly adjusted so that the smallest just don't get into those committees at all. However, here is the basis of where the problem is. The way the election winner looks at the little ones he doesn't need. To the little ones who said they wouldn't support the government of the YES movement. He looks at them by listening to their demands and says, "We'll get back to you." So I just want to say that we haven't heard from anyone this week, no one has told us the outcome of the negotiations, no one has told us what committees, as President Gazdik has already said, we will be able to work. I mean, it's not a negotiation. It's kind of the corporate style of the meeting. I don't need a small one. I only need those who will support me in the future, who have promised me support. And I don't talk to the rest of me. Indeed, the point of democracy is that the majority rules, but the rights of the minority are respected. And the fact that a minority doesn't enforce their interests is a legitimate answer. And I'm sure we'd accept it from Mr. Faltýnek eventually, because we're small. But democracy also involves talking to a minority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u49	Mr Hájek has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u50	Hello, colleagues, colleagues. Here you can see sometime, this point is called Proposition to confirm the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, and we're talking about something completely different here. But you'll get used to it being here so often. Secondly, here you can always see, I've been splitting it up in the last parliamentary term as an envoy and a MP. That means, that's the ones with priority rights, and then we, I consider myself the normal, classy one, like most of us here, who have to wait patiently for them to come after two hours in a row. But let me go back to what belongs here, that is. a discussion on how the committee concepts have been developed so far. [[12.40 hours]] It's important to say who's got butter on his head. The butter on his head is the Democratic bloc that changed what was being prepared here. And it was only Monday that the officially Democratic bloc had signed that it would actually follow the Rules of Procedure and want to merge. It wasn't until Monday. That means I'm the vice president of the club where we worked really hard, there were several options. But I repeat, the Democratic bloc has only officially confirmed on Monday that it will really promote this representation in committees, which, of course, changes the concept. Because the Democratic bloc is four subjects, and it is true that it really needs to be discussed. And today we're voting for the President of the House, and then I'd ask the President of the House if he's elected to take up the negation or the negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u51	Now, in fact, Minister Jurečka and then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u52	I'm sorry. You know, if you've known me for the last four years, you know I don't come here to talk for nothing, and I always try to get to the point. But to really say things the way they are here. Two and a half weeks ago, when we were at the second and last meeting as representatives of the KDU-ČSL with representatives of the winning ANO movement, we said priorities - we said the Education Committee, the Economic Committee and the Committee on European Affairs. At that time, President Faltýnek looked at the papers, nodded his head and said: So the education committee will probably be the priority of the ODS, the economy is free. That's what was said at the time. And it was not until today that we were officially informed that we had been assigned a European Committee. And all we're calling for here is a problem to say as election winners: yes, well, with some delay, but shall we call the meeting? Because, as has been said, we are speaking here to point The motion to confirm the chair of the mandate and immunity committee, and someone might say at first sight: this debate has nothing to do with it. But the debate has something to do with it, because then we're going to have this debate with every other committee or at every other meeting on specific committees. So please, start acting constructively and start acting already. I apologise to all the newly elected Members, but there would simply not be such a situation if these negotiations were taking place. And here was said something about the Democratic bloc that Monday. Please, nicely, we, as the Democratic bloc, called for a meeting to take place on Monday, and according to my information, half an hour before the negotiations were held by the ANO representatives. So please, I'll be happy if you say yes, today, tomorrow, we'll meet, we'll invite all the political parties in the House and move on.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u53	President Bartošek, then Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek and then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u54	We find ourselves in a rather paradoxical situation where we all say and call for each other to agree and to hold the election winner. And I can't shake the impression that you're coming out of an old Latin proverb, divide et imperia, divide and conquer. The only one who benefits from this is you. And it must also be said that this is a clear message to the people of this country. The way you treat your partners who are small - and we respect that, we respect the winners of the elections - by disrespecting and disrespecting small partners, you will treat the people of this country in the same way. 'Cause it runs from the head. And this is what it's gonna look like. Whoever's small and can't reach you, you'll treat him this way. The only thing we call for is normal human decency. What we are calling for is normal democratic behavior, so that even as children, we are invited to act and to normally make a decent human arrangement. What we are calling for is normal human decency, President Faltýnek, through the President. All we call for and ask for: call the meeting, treat those who are small with all due respect for the outcome of the elections.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u55	Thank you. Mr. Vice Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u56	Mr President, colleagues. By your means, Mr President, to Vice-President Hájek. We've been in the Chamber of Deputies for just as long. And here's the difference between a factual remark and a preferential right. If I'm not mistaken, neither I nor the Minister of Agriculture have taken advantage of our priority rights today, we have only used a factual remark that you can use as well. So please make it clear to the public, no subpoenas, etc. They're not using anything here. We are properly reporting through a factual remark. And I repeat, we have never received any official answer from the committee. As Masaryk said, the debate is actually a democracy. And we just miss the discussion. You guys made a deal, and you think it's obvious. But you didn't let us know. We could have forgiven each other as a Monday's more than a half-hour debate if we just got together and straightened things out. But you didn't meet with us, and you refused to deal with the Democratic bloc. You refused to deal with us. And then don't be surprised we don't like it. And remember what kind of blunder the other day was here on Monday. And we're doing it again. And it's gonna keep going, because we heard for the first time today that you've assigned us a committee. And I consider that to be very ruthless, and I consider that to be a sklendrian.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u57	Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u58	So I didn't really understand Bartošek's speech, but if we sit at the table and there it sounds like I'm not going to sit at the table with a fascist and not with a communist, it's just some kind of signal to me, my colleague through the President. And you can talk all you want. Otherwise, please, let's try to make a deal tomorrow at 11:00, 12:00, 13:00, as it will suit most, meet the committees and settle this situation, whether we move forward a little bit in today's programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u59	Chairman Kováčik, President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u60	Thank you for the floor. President Faltýnek promised me this was the last time, and it wasn't. But the fact that he said he was calling - invites, sorry, to the meeting. Mr President, please, nicely through Mr President, do you really mean all the membership clubs in the form of club presidents? [[It's a yes from Mr. Faltynek.]] Because I was once invited to a meeting that the callers called a round table, but there was no ANO movement and someone invited there, and now I don't know exactly who it was from the people's people, he said he wouldn't sit at the table with the Communists. That's why I apologized so there wouldn't be any problem. And yet it wasn't a round table, because a round table usually comes with everyone's participation. I therefore welcome the proposal. The point is, he's finally getting on the real round table. Maybe a little late, but still. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u61	Now, Prime Minister Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u62	Just briefly to my mistake, which I said here. That's right, divide et impera. This is my mistake, which I have said here and to which I confess. Second, through Mr President to President Faltýnek. I never said the word fascist. Wrong again. You guys get your shit together again. And the other thing. I said that if the winner of the elections calls a meeting with the participation of all the parliamentary parties, we will come. I said it at the press conference today, and I said it repeatedly. So don't lie here. I have clearly declared publicly that KDU-ČSL will attend the meeting if it is convened by the winner of the elections. Don't twist the facts here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u63	Now, it looks like there are no factual remarks, so Prime Minister Michálek has the floor with a proper application.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, I have duly signed up for the debate and I have waited. I would like to remind you that we have convened a round table of opposition parties at the beginning, precisely with the aim of generating the nomination of the opposition as chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. That is precisely the point that we are discussing right now. From this meeting she apologized to the KSČM and SPD, stating the reason that the ANO movement is missing at the round table of opposition parties. That's why they apologized. So we met in a narrower configuration, and we did what we said, and we created a joint opposition candidate for the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. The YES movement has publicly promised to support the representative of the opposition as chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. What happened, however, is that what we were told here was abandoned by the KSČM Committee on the basis of the agreement and on the basis that the KSČM issued a statement that under certain conditions it would be a tolerant party. As a result, KSČM, who won 7 percent of the votes in the elections, is one of the less successful opposition parties and not the candidate that was generated by all other opposition parties representing 38% of the electorate, which is a huge, virtually dominant opposition force. [[In the left aisle, Members gather together into the noisy and noisy.]] So let's describe the situation as it really looks. YES has agreed with the dwarf here and passes on to him, within some tolerance, the position of chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, which will, of course, lead the negotiations on the release of the Chairman of the ANO movement and the Chairman of the ANO parliamentary club to criminal prosecution. I'd like some peace in the room, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u65	Yes. Please, all those who have fun with each other, please disband the discussion groups, or transfer the discussion to the foyer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u66	So we have already witnessed here yesterday that President Kováčik was lecturing his proposals, and basically these were the proposals of the ANO movement, where in this way they chose a puppet who lectured their proposals on the number of members and adjusted it according to the results. Subsequently, Professor Válková proposed a member of the KSČM as Chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. Unlike her, I think that such information belongs to the public and that citizens have the right to know how the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies is generated. In fact, what has been said here repeatedly is that there is a government of the ANO movement with the support of KSČM and SPD. Of course, I respect and we all respect the outcome of the elections, but we consider it necessary to say that we are not part of this block, this coalition YES, SPD and KSČM. So now it will come to a fundamental vote, where we will see which political parties form the bloc that the parties to the ruling coalition will place their chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, and I would like to declare here that he is not the person who has major support in opposition, or support among the opposition parties who voted for 38 percent of the people. So the citizens will see it now in this crucial vote, which completely exposes how the government will probably function for the next four years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u67	In fact, Mr. Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u68	Thank you. Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to ask the President of the Pirate Club Michálek to apologise. The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia is no puppet. It is a political party that was established in February 1990, registered by the Ministry of the Interior at the time by the Czech and Slovak Federal Republics in November 1990. Since then, it has been operating in the Czech and Slovak Republics and the Czech Republic in a democratic system in a way that allows it to be a permanent part of the Czech political scene. We're not a puppet. [[He speaks very strongly.]] We have our own political agenda. That's one. Secondly, creating a block does not mean that you are the only representatives of the opposition. Here sits the regular government of the Czech Republic, which has not yet resigned. There is no government coalition yet. And if we act like this, this government will sit here for a long time. Because if we fail to elect the President of the Chamber of Deputies, the leadership and the authorities of the Chamber of Deputies, this government will not be able to resign. So please, with this knowledge, approach the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u69	Mrs. Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u70	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on what President Faltýnek has said here about the negotiations of all the members of Parliament. I personally have to say that I welcome this invitation to the meeting of all the Members' clubs. However, I take it as a statement that the procedure chosen by the winner of the Yes elections regarding the negotiations with regard to membership of committees and chairmen has not been successful and has not been happy. YES, it announced that it would introduce new order in the Chamber of Deputies. However, in the case of the negotiations chosen by YES, they did not work. And I'm really glad that we're going back to the old order where the deal always happened if all the clubs acted at the same time, even before the set-up meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u71	Furthermore, I have no applications for debate. I'm done with the conversation. I will make a motion for a resolution, which is... I'll call my colleagues from the lobby, if necessary. The motion for a resolution is: 'The Chamber of Deputies confirms Mr Stanislav Grospič as Chairman of the mandate and immunity committee'. [[In plenary, they shall apply for withdrawal.]] Check out? Yes. So I'm signing you off, and I'm asking for a new registration. Let's take a vote. I have read the motion for a resolution. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees with the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? It's vote number 7, registered 194, for 115, against 66. This proposal was adopted. [[A rare round of applause.]] I therefore congratulate Mr Grospič on his election as chairman of the mandate and immunity committee. I'm ending point 7 and opening point 8. [[Mr Beitl wakes up in the left side of the hall: I did not have a voting device, I voted against it.]] Ambassador, if you wish to comment on the vote, please use the microphone. [[The Member is rushing up the stairs to the President.]] Down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u72	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, my voting device did not work, I voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-22-ps2017-001-02-004-007.u73	Yes. But I suppose it's just for the tapestry that you don't want to question the vote, you just want to put it on the tapestry, as you voted. [[Member Beitl: Yes.]] Okay, so it's not an objection to the vote. Item
