ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u1	6. Government bill on foreign service and amending some laws (the Foreign Service Act) /German press 994 - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the bill submitted will be introduced by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. I shall ask for the attention of the foreign committee rapporteur Robin Böhnisch and Mr Jeroným. As rapporteur for the Constitutional Legal Committee. Now, then, Minister Zaorálek. He's here. Before the rapporteur's table comes, I note that we have ordered the proposal at first reading to be discussed by the Foreign Committee as a guarantee committee, so I will ask my colleague Böhnisch to take the floor at the rapporteur's table. The Committee's resolution was delivered as the House's press 994-1-3, when the second committee or the other committee, to be precise under the Rules of Procedure, is the Committee's constitutionally legal. So now the words will be taken by Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would like to begin with the second reading - I will not repeat everything that has already been said here in the first reading, which I think would make you tirelessly. As you know, the proposal was directed to two committees, foreign and constitutionally legal. The foreign one is a guarantee committee. I personally took part in the negotiations in both committees, and I can only tell you that the discussion was perfectly correct and factual, although there were some comments, but they were often made to explain the various elements of the law. I think it was quite a useful debate for both sides. A single amendment was made in committee discussions. I can comment on that, if necessary, I can support some of what has been said there, but I think at this point I would be limited to this. The debate took place, and I myself was satisfied with it, and I hope that it was useful for Members too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u3	I thank the Minister of Foreign Affairs and ask Mr Robin Böhnisch, the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u4	Vice-President, thank you very much. It was a big event for a foreign committee of its kind, because it rarely deals with law, mostly only - in quotation marks only - international treaties. The Committee dealt with the law twice, interrupted its negotiations first and awaited the negotiation of the law in the Constitutional Legal Committee, which adopted an amendment with which the rapporteur of the Constitutional Legal Committee will probably introduce us. The Foreign Committee did not accept any amendment at its 31st meeting on 7 February, only the resolution I would like to read: After the reasons of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Martin Smolek and the report by Robin Böhnisch and after the debate, the Foreign Committee recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to give its approval, instructs the Committee President to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and empowers the Committee rapporteur to report on the results of this government proposal at the meeting of the Foreign Committee. So much for the meeting on the Foreign Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I ask the rapporteur of Mr Jeroným Tejc's constitutional committee to also inform us of the constitutional and possible amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief because the negotiations of the Constitutional Committee and austerity have also been brief, at least as long as amendments are adopted. The meeting took place on 26 January at the 81st meeting of the Constitutional Legal Committee. [[with emphasis on:]] We have recommended that the bill be approved almost without reservations. We have supplemented one minor amendment with the agreement of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, namely that in Section 58 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2. the words "in the field of service abroad" and "in the field of service abroad" shall be deleted. It is a similar regulation that we have discussed today under the Service Act or the Civil Service Act in relation to employees, i.e. the exception of education, and it was a matter on which the Committee agreed with a clear result. That's all that happened on the Constitutional Legal Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. Allow me, before I open the debate, to make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Kořenek apologizes from 17 o'clock until the end of the day for health reasons. I am now opening the debate and Mr Martin Plíšek is the first to be signed, and this is the general one, and he has the floor in detail. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u8	Mr Vice-President, dear fellow Members, allow me to present to you two amendments or the summaries of the amendments to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. The first one was inserted into the system by the Foreign Committee President Karel Schwarzenberg, and I will justify it in the general debate. First, it is proposed to supplement the principles of performance of a foreign service with the principle of indivisibility and thus organically follows the other principles set out in Section 3 and are in line with the reasoning given in the explanatory memorandum to the draft law submitted. Similarly, the principle of indivisibility of foreign service performance is closely linked to the principle of professionalism and, in particular, to the principle of maintaining obligations for the Czech Republic under international law and European Union law. It is also proposed to amend Section 12 in the submitted draft Foreign Service Act. The purpose of the proposed adjustments is to ensure that, in cases where the foreign service of the State is involved in cooperation with the Ministry and other state authorities or other legal entities, compliance with the principles of foreign service is always explicitly ensured, with emphasis on the principle of uniformity, professionalism and respect for international legal obligations. According to the explanatory report, the petitioner of the bill follows a similar objective. The amendment therefore aims to create a clearer legal framework for compliance with these principles in the area of diplomacy. Furthermore, the amendment concerns § 34. In Section 34 of the draft law presented, the term "personal council" is operated on. This term has been used in the Ministry since at least 1993 for the designation of the advisory grémia of the Minister composed of senior executives of the Ministry at the level of senior directors and deputy ministers, which has proved to be a relatively effective instrument ensuring the occupation of senior positions in the Ministry. The proposal submitted for a new text of Section 34 contained in the amendment, including its title, does not call into question the need for certain specialised professional Gremies, which help to apply professional and career criteria in the foreign service. However, it proposes to lay down essential requirements for members of such grémies so that they can fulfil their role in the foreign service as a very specific field of public service. With this aim, it also proposes to establish the basic rules for the position of these professional gremias in relation to the Secretary of State and, consequently, to the Minister. Following similar laws in some other European countries, he realisticly envisages the tendency of ministers not to put professional and career criteria first, but suggests explicitly quantifying the number of exceptions so as not to allow for an even greater scope. Determination of the name of individual professional gremias, the number of their members, more precise definition, status, etc. proposes to amend the proposed amendment at the level of the Staff Regulations. In Paragraph 39 of the amendment, the amendment proposes supplementing the limitation of the possibility to refer the head of the representative office to non-standard nominations only without stating the reason. In the case of career diplomats, we expect selection procedures in the Ministry to be set so that candidates for nominations are properly assessed in advance in terms of professional, career and personality assumptions. Even such nominees can certainly be withdrawn from their post prematurely later. But it can only happen for a particular, serious and verifiable reason. In Article 41 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: 1 is proposed to supplement explicitly the possibility of a family member's employment by fulfilling the relevant conditions and requirements for the performance of the service or work in a given administrative or other technical systemised place. As regards Article 41 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union is not in a position to rule on the application of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union. A v § 41 para. By way of exception, 3 of the proposed text allows a person who is not a career diplomatic worker with years of experience in foreign service to be nominated as a leader in the representative office. At the same time, it sets out the minimum necessary prerequisites which the nominated person must meet, following the model of similar laws of some other European countries, in terms of occupation on the basis of qualifications and other requirements. So much for the amendment put into the system by the President of the Foreign Committee. And I would briefly mention another amendment, to which I will also sign up in a detailed debate, and that is a kind family policy in relation to career diplomats. In this proposal, this family lacks a helpful policy. The posting of workers with children should, in my view, be borne in mind by the law, at least in the sense that the worker has the right to apply to appropriate territories for the conditions for the secondment of a family, including children, by a compulsory school. At all costs, efforts to cut tuition costs e.g. in the recent past, it has made it impossible to select a member of the family to London. School costs here are so high that they cannot be paid. And, unfortunately, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs argued out of ignorance that there would be enough space in public schools, and then practice showed that this was not the case. As a result, Czech diplomacy has long treated workers with children more Maces than singles and singles. It is therefore proposed to add the relevant paragraph to paragraph 48. The working hours, as described in Section 49, remember the overtime of diplomats who have social responsibilities, but do not mention the overtime of technical staff, who often do not even have time to choose all the hours worked. We recommend to draw attention to this asymmetry, more than half of the workers are forgotten in this text of the bill proposal. It would be quite sufficient to delete the wording so far and replace it with "working and service hours regulated by a special regulation'. And he would then lay down the requirements of other, i.e. technical and service workers at the representative offices. I also want to appreciate § 51 on maternity leave and on the treatment of pregnant women. So far, such persons have been outside the law and their status has depended solely on the goodwill of the relevant executives. So much for my amendment to support, say, family policy in the framework of long-term broadcasting on foreign missions. I will sign up for the two amendments that I have tabled and justified here in a detailed debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u9	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. I'm asking President Schwarzenberg whether he's applying with a factual or normal basis. Mr President, because otherwise your colleague Chalánková takes precedence, unless it is a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u10	I would just like to say here that, as former Foreign Minister, I am very happy that the diplomatic service law will finally be implemented. In our opinion, the foreign service must not be purple, yellow, orange, red or any other colour, but must be the foreign service of the Czech Republic. Therefore, our efforts are to achieve a law that would free the foreign service from excessive political influences. First of all. [[17.10 hours]] Secondly, in order to motivate our young and diplomats at all, so that their career order is clear, so that they are not surprised, that suddenly for various other reasons, less of service, someone else, who has come from a completely different profession and who is learning foreign policy in practice, would take precedence. That is the point of our amendments. This law, which we welcome in this way, may still be improved to be as objective as possible and as motivated as possible by young diplomats to enter the service, to be sure of their careers and not to be threatened by sudden changes in personnel policy in their careers. That is what our proposals have been made by Mr Plíšek. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u11	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I will ask my colleague Chalánková to be patient, because Mr Gabal has also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u12	Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would follow up on the previous speaker through you. There is a question that needs to be answered in this law: Do we want people to enter the foreign service with a career diplomatic perspective, or do we want them to be able to do this through political protection? I don't think the current proposal is consistent enough to support the career principle. I therefore welcome the amendments that have come out there, and I will be very interested in the view of the foreign committee as a whole.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u13	I also thank Mr Gabal for his time on the point of fact. And now, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, duly applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me justify my amendment, which is inserted into the system under number 5838 and replaces the amendments previously tabled, which have been inserted under numbers 5815 and 5824. I will then sign up formally for Amendment 5838 in a detailed debate, which replaces them. It is an amendment to the Government Bill on Foreign Service and on the amendment of certain laws, the Foreign Service Act, i.e. the House Press 994. Here are two proposals for two amendments: Part one. In Article 1, the following paragraph 3 is inserted after paragraph 2: " (3) The provision of diplomatic protection is governed by a special law." And part two. Paragraph 4 (3) reads: " (3) The embassies establish and abolish the Government of the Czech Republic on a proposal from the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic. [[hereinafter referred to as the'minister']] [[hereinafter referred to as 'government']] Before the establishment or revocation of the representative office referred to in paragraph 2 (a). (a), (b) and (e) inform the Government of the foreign committees of both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic." Reason for point 1. I will select a part because you have the whole text inserted into the system: Diplomatic protection of the citizens of the state abroad is, or should be, an integral part of the foreign service. This is not the case yet, because the Czech Republic and its rule of law do not count on providing diplomatic protection to its citizens at all. Although For some 20 years, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been considering preparing a law that would regulate the conditions for providing diplomatic protection to our citizens, perhaps even in the past partial legislative work has already taken place, such a law still does not exist and it is not even known whether it is still being prepared. The absence of this law makes it difficult to help Czech people abroad. There are no rules on how to apply for diplomatic protection, where to ask for it, under what conditions and where. In extreme interpretation, it could even be concluded that diplomatic protection cannot be provided by the Czech Republic because such activity lacks legal authorisation. The draft Foreign Service Act submitted by the Government does not count on diplomatic protection at all. That's not acceptable. This can be dealt with by extensive recasting the proposal. Since the representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are particularly concerned about the accelerated adoption of the Foreign Service Act, it is only proposed to supplement § 1 of the Act in a way designed to at least mention diplomatic protection in the law as part of the foreign service. The reference to the Act on Diplomatic Protection will in fact not only oblige the Government to prepare and present Parliament for discussion in a short period of time, but will, above all, become the only legal support for the provision of diplomatic protection in the Czech legal order. Reason for point 2. According to the proposal, the establishment and abolition of the representative offices should be fully within the competence of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, who should only have an obligation to inform the government in advance. Disturbing and setting up an embassy is not only administrative, virtually. financial decisions, but to a large extent also the question of political ones. The proposal aims to ensure that the establishment and abolition of representative offices is not decided by an individual, but by the government as a collective body of executive power. At the same time, the proposal obliges the Government to inform the Foreign Committees of the Chamber of Deputies and the Senate in advance of the establishment or abolition of the Foreign Office. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u15	Thank you, Mrs Jitka Chalánková, for her performance. This was the last duly entered into the general debate. I'm asking if... Yes, please Mr Plzák, who is reporting for the general debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you weren't at the second meeting of our foreign committee, but your deputy perfectly replaced you. I was one of those who asked more questions, maybe it wasn't pleasant for my colleagues. But it was because I found out when I read the law that I was actually an MP, even though I'm a member of a foreign committee, I just can't see into the department's guts, I can't see into the courses, into the kitchen, so I had a lot of things to explain. I won't be here long. I am only concerned with the amendments. We will certainly meet again as a guarantee committee over the amendments. It is not clear to me in these amendments why something cannot be named once again by the Human Resources Council, once called so, why it should be an advisory or professional grémium. What changes when good efforts may be to limit politicians to replacing career diplomats in diplomatic posts... How far the effort can go, or to what extent. I, of course, also prefer that high-quality educated people go abroad, who will represent us well, and I am not a fan of any trade fairs, but I would not completely rule out the possibility that someone who has worked for years, for example - of course I am a doctor, I do not mean myself - in the foreign committee and works well so that he cannot represent our state somewhere. So I guess we'll still have the debate, and I'll have you explain it to me. I know that the Deputy Minister will draw up a perfect position on the amendments, and I will ask again on the next foreign committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u17	Thank you, Mr Plzák. Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek is reporting for the debate. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u18	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, one of you has told me that he feels sick, that I did not perform in a more thorough and passionate speech, given that my colleague is convinced that the law is quite exceptional and that it is not a common matter. So I went into myself that there's probably some kind of mistake, that I put it here so briefly. I assure my colleague that I, too, consider it essential that the law succeeds. That doesn't mean I'm losing it, on the contrary. I didn't really want to go into this debate with the fact that I know there's a lot of work to do here, and it seems to me here that we have a rather decent agreement on committees. [[17.20 hours]] But after all, my colleague Plzák almost approached me now because he actually asked a few questions about how I would take up some of these amendments, as I understood. Well, maybe it would be quite appropriate for me to comment on that a little bit. I admit that Karel Schwarzenberg's amendments are final, i.e. it's a certain whole that makes sense, it's a more thoughtful set of proposals. That is why I will use it to express myself to them in a way that is understandable. On Mr Schwarzenberg's proposals, I have no problem with the first proposal in which he asks that the indivisibility of the foreign service be noted. I understand that you may not understand what this is about, but the indivisibility of foreign service means that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a crucial role to play, and other ministries should respect that when expressing themselves to foreign policy. That's a thing I kind of like. We even had it there, but at the request of the legislative board that came forward, we withdrew it. So I guess you see, I'm not gonna go against it because it's a formulation. The indivisibility of foreign service, of course, is a very close thought to the State Department, we would be in favour of having a certain defined... I think it's defined elsewhere, but we wanted it to be in the law. If the House had voted and supported this motion here, I would be the last to protest. That's the thing we agree with. So the indivisibility of foreign service. Quite simply - if possible, one speaks for foreign service, or the State Department has jurisdiction over it, and it is a matter that I like. And I'm not protesting her at all. It is more complicated with Mr Karel Schwarzenberg's proposals, because they concern things such as these, you said here, why is it not to be called 'personal council', why is it to be a 'professional grémium', that it is unclear to you why the name is to be changed, and then it is the question of those political nominations. That was also said here. To that end, I would say this: why it should be called otherwise is not so important, but the whole proposal is aimed at making ambassadors in the hands of a rather narrow group of former ambassadors. And I don't think he's quite happy. Do you understand? That's it, those who have served ten years etc. So I guess you can understand that I'm not gonna be entirely supportive of this, because then the appointment of ambassadors would be concentrated in the hands of a rather narrow group of career diplomats. And I don't think that's ideal. And maybe even more serious is the second debate, and it concerns the political nominations. He mentioned it here, too, Mr Gabal. I don't mean to distort what he said, but he expressed his concern that it would be too much of a politician, the appointment of the ambassadors. So that's right. But I would object to that, I'm sorry, but political nominations, if I take it in general, that's not a dirty word. You know that in the United States, political nominations are quite common and relatively large. So I wouldn't say that political nominations are wrong, and I can tell you exactly the extent to which they are happening in the Czech Republic, and most importantly, I think that this is a matter of the Constitution. Look, political nominations, which go beyond purely career diplomats, are sometimes very interesting because we put intelligence specialists in some areas. That's really happening. Or we send experts to some areas. Or maybe a politician isn't something that should eliminate a person. A politician is a person with contacts. That is why political nominations are made, because they are people who have a relatively interesting ability to navigate the environment. So I would be here to a certain extent... or I have to stand up for political nominations to a certain extent, because I think it's important that the House agree that we support them. And the second thing is, if we wanted to cancel them, my friends, it's unconstitutional, because the way some of these proposals are formulated, it would basically mean, for example. The fact that the president has to completely disable himself from his role. If what it says is that I'm allowed one political nomination a year... Do you hear me? It's basically suggested that I have one political nomination a year. Now, if I'm doing roughly, don't take my word for it, but let's say it's called 30 ambassadors a year. And only one could be political. Well, what if the Prime Minister's opinion, the President's opinion, and those who just want two or three? So does that mean I'm gonna turn it down for career diplomats? But I'm in a dispute with the Constitution. And if you ask me how many of these political nominations there are, maybe I can afford to tell you, I think it's really like it's two or three a year. If I were to estimate it to me. And here they say there can only be one. And I should tell the president, anyone, well, you're out of luck, Mr. President, we've exhausted one and I'm done. But we're in a dispute with the Constitution because the president or the Prime Minister, etc., who may have some interest in sending someone, and that may be quite a political concern for someone to go there, they'll just be unlucky. I don't think we can rewrite the Constitution by simple law. If the Constitution simply creates room for certain political agreements on political nominations, then I think that is something that we cannot change here by simple law by saying in the law that there will be only one political nomination per year. And why one, right? Sounds to me like it's... So here I think we should keep what's in the proposal that we put forward. That's where I think there's a space that fits the Constitution. And at the same time, I'm sorry, but I would have imagined the choir, in our submission of the Human Resources Council, in the proposal of the professional grémium... In fact, I do not agree with this change, because I really think that the appointment of ambassadors should not be just a matter of a narrow group. Narrow groups that would become this essentially caste that would hold it de facto in their hands all the time. And I say that frankly, I consider a system that doesn't seem happy to me. So I hope that I have described this in a clear way as to what is going on in these amendments, and I am really very much intercede in order to have a consensus here on the proposal that I am putting forward because I think that this creates an area that corresponds to the Constitution, and I think that the space that we are creating against the so-called. political nomination, it's just reasonable. And I think it's even something that, in terms of the states around us and the customs around us, is quite common in diplomacy. It is easy to prove that there is room for political nominations in a number of countries around us, and it is nothing unusual. It is also my business, or those who are in those constitutional positions at the time, to guarantee the level of those political nominations. Sometimes they can really be for the benefit of the cause in my opinion. I'm not going to comment on the other details, this seems to me to be the most fundamental. We are prepared to argue that in committee, so some of the things that have been said here are worth discussing. The most important thing is what I just picked out of it. That is what I think is a fundamental debate that concerns political nominations and who should have created the Grémium that deals with this at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That seems most serious to me, and this is what the House has to decide. I gave my opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u19	Thank you, Secretary of State, for his performance. I have four applications for the debate before me, and that is factual. The first is Mr Pavel Plzák, the second is Ivan Gabal, the third is Milan Urban, the fourth is Minister Stropnický. I ask Mr Plzák to take the floor on a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u20	Yes, thank you. Minister, since we've done this, I originally thought I'd ask the committee about it, but you mentioned it here yourself as one important thing. I'd like to ask how many employees the Ministry has, I'm guessing about 1,600, I really don't know, I'm completely uninformed here, and what number of people would be subject to this restriction if we were to consider this professional... what it's called... grémia, how many people would it narrow down to if the conditions set out there had to be met. But there's a limit to that personnel board. It is also stated that the member may be the one who has been in the administrative office for the past ten years, etc. I know you're not gonna tell me out of my mind, it's a question we can answer later on the committee. I would like to know, in the case of the second limitation, how many people are about to be involved, which may become members of the so-called. personnel councils, or in the law cited by the Personnel Council. And I'm really gonna save more for the committee. I'm not gonna keep it here anymore. For a colleague of Gabal, who will come after me. I have such an impression, and now I do not know how many politicians went to the representative offices to the position of ambassadors, but I remember my colleague Tomáš Podivínský, who went to a rather important place, to the embassy in Germany, and he is behind the people's side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u21	Thank you, Mr Plzák. And now, before I give the floor to Mr Gabal, I will read an apology. Mrs Kveta Matušovská apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day. prosit, Mr Ivan Gabal, with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u22	Thank you. Just to clarify to the Minister by your means. I was talking about the careers of new young diplomats. I'm not gonna remind you of Sigmund Sigmund's Freud where you brought them. So it is clear that the problem of the political nominations of the ambassadors here is, of course, because there were more than one. But I didn't want to deal with that. I really wanted to address it carefully - and I very much support the law, I very much welcome it, I will vote for it - a clear perspective as the basis of a career in the foreign service of career diplomats in that those political nominations are an exception. And when you mentioned the United States, Minister, there are political nominations for financial contributions to the campaign. Is that what you meant?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u23	I thank Mr Gabal. Among other things, he apologizes from 17.30 to the end of the day. Now I've received his apology. Mr Milan Urban and then Minister Martin Stropnický. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u24	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. I can't take it anymore - talking about where he can and can't be a politician. We're actually making the whole political representation here, if you don't realize it, a herd of people with lower intelligence probably, people like that, who knows if they can read and write, because they can't actually be anywhere. A politician can't be anywhere. We have to do the brakes, the bans, a maximum of one in ten years and so on. This concerns both this story and thousands of other stories. If we keep doing this, my friends, this House or the political representation won't get too much credit. I thought it was crucial if this person knew anything, if he was an expert on the issue, in this case if he had any experience and was a diplomat before, then he became a politician, or was a minister, knows foreign languages, knows the world, knows political science better than anyone else. Otherwise, it may be someone who's an engineer, has a mathematical-physical faculty or a nuclear faculty, can do it, made it to the House, but the moment he got here, he became a jerk. That's what you're saying here. I'm just not willing to admit this. I think, of course, there may be some criteria, some insights, to see if this person really is an experienced person who can do something. But kicking him in the ass because he's a politician, and we're still applauding... Friends, then let's not try to make this House ever get any respect. Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u25	Thank you for keeping the time limit. I have another one with a point of fact here with Minister Stropnický. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a quick few brief remarks, because I wasn't here during the whole debate, so I certainly don't want to do any gebiers to make some complicated judgments on political nominations here. I think, as always, it's a matter of measure. It's just a matter of measure and some sort of setting. I wouldn't exactly argue with the permission of some overseas system. We all know how the appointment of ambassadors is going in the United States. That's non-transferable. And I think it's a good thing it's not transferable. It shouldn't be based on how much you put on the campaign. It should be career service. It should be a professional service. The way they are set up in a number of European countries. We, I mean, faster here, slower here, but we're getting closer and we shouldn't really set up the system to lose quality people. And that's what happened in the last 25 years. I would like to say that in 1990, when the staff changed mass into Jiří Dienstbier's elder, so that a number of people who had just learned it in some way went to long-term foreign internships, annual or even two years old, and that unfortunately many of these people were already in the ministry today because they did not have any stability of perspective. And it's a shame. One of those generations, for example, is Martin Povejšil, our permanent representative for the European Union. And I think we can agree that he's a top diplomat. And we're glad to have him. But there aren't many others like that in the ministry anymore, and I certainly don't blame it on the current foreign minister. It should simply be highly professional and political service. He is simply a person who is to serve a democratically elected government to promote its foreign policy abroad. Period. If he's ever seen himself in politics or in business, that's irrelevant. For me, it's important that he gets the background, which seems to be being discussed here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u27	Thank you, too. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see any such request. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking the Minister if he's interested in a possible final word. [[The Minister asks for a speech in a detailed debate.]] After the general debate? Okay, in detail. I do not see any proposal that we should vote at this stage. I am opening a detailed debate in which Members have joined - first, Mr Martin Plíšek, Mrs Chalánková will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u28	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. In the general debate, I justified two amendments that are inserted under 5758 in the system, that is one amendment, and the other is inserted under 5759. So 5758 and 5759 - I hereby sign up for both amendments. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Chalánková. Mrs Fischerová will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u30	Mr President, allow me to sign up for an amendment registered under number 5838 in the system. I justified it in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u31	Thank you. Next up, Mrs Fischerová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u32	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hereby subscribe to the amendment under number 5831, where Mr Zbyněk Stanjura put it. And because as a member of the Foreign Committee, I was very interested, and I look at the Minister as well, I just want to add that the justification is all there in the system, and I'm sure you'll agree with that because I see it as a great help to the foreign service. It is supposed to help at a time when it is necessary to deal quickly with something so that it is flexible for you, for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. So much for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u33	Thank you, too. At this point, I am not registering any further applications for a detailed debate. [[The Minister is reporting, but the President does not see him.]] I'm asking if anyone else is interested. He doesn't. I'm ending the debate in detail. And I'm asking the Minister if he's interested... More? Oh, I'm sorry, I'm still in the middle of a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u34	Thank you. I've just applied to be detailed. So before it is finished, I would like to comply with § 95 para. The Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has held that the Court of Justice of the European Union has jurisdiction over the application of the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union to the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the Court of Justice of I propose a legal deadline of 14 days to be reduced to 7 days. So from 14 to 7 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-22-ps2013-055-02-010-006.u35	Yes. Thank you. So, at this point, I am ending the detailed debate. I ask if the Minister is still interested in the final word, or the rapporteur. [[The Minister and the rapporteur are discussing each other, and the President is not perceived.]] I don't think they do. We would therefore proceed to the vote on the Minister's proposal, which proposes a shortening of the deadline for third reading from 14 days to 7 days. I'm gonna call our colleagues from the gong lobby, and I'm registering an application for check-out. I'm signing you all off, and I'm asking you to sign in with your voting cards. We'll wait a little while longer until the voter numbers are settled. [[17.40 hours]] We will vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline for third reading to seven days. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting 102, 103 Members signed in for 68, against no one. This proposal was adopted and the deadline for the third reading was shortened. We have exhausted this point and I am ending the second reading of this proposal. Next item opening point number
