ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended /house print 501/6/ - returned by the Senate We discussed this House press on 21 February and the debate was interrupted. I would remind you that, under the authority of the Senate, Senator Jitka Seitlová and Senator Jaroslav Větrovský may take part in this matter, and I welcome the Senator among us. Hello. I ask that the Environment Minister Richard Brabec and the Guarantee Committee rapporteur Robin Böhnisch take the position at the rapporteur's table. I wonder if the Minister wants to speak before we continue the debate. It's not like that. Or the rapporteur, Mr Böhnisch? Not either. We will continue with the interrupted debate that I am opening up with this. The first candidate is Mr Laudát, and Mrs Nohavová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on the previous performances you have heard here. You've heard of lunaparks. I had the performance prepared earlier, I didn't change it, so I may repeat or touch the same things in something, but, of course, because of the fact that the Nature Conservation Act, although in the cut-off form, which only concerns Šumava, has been here several times. The Senate, which was supplemented by a recently elected third of its members, was introduced on the Czech political scene in quotation marks by the amendments to bill No. 144/1992 Coll. On 18 January 2017, in my view, in a very unfortunate way.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u3	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering your speech, but again I must call on colleagues and colleagues to remain silent. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u4	Thank you. I find it hard to believe that most senators deliberately opened the way to another wave of land exploitation by voting. I stress the exploitation of the landscape. Otherwise, there is no way to call it a process in which a relatively narrow group of polistopad rich people, after turning the Krkonoše valleys into carnivals, yearned for personal privatization to change the southern border mountains. Villas built on hills so that the owners have a good view, in which they will not interfere with what they themselves are building, it is a vision of their form of the Czech landscape. Everywhere it's a reality today, you don't have to go too far for examples. And that's the vision that Šumava is having if we went to the Senate bill. Previously, there was a struggle for activities in areas affected by barkworm and orcan Kyrill. Today it is clear that nature can handle itself without our chainsaws and heavy mechanizations. The same group of politicians comes with a moving care for the development of Šumava communities. With few exceptions, I have no impression that the people of Sumava want to live as poor relatives in the shadow of endless strings of apartments. And when the apartments are too many, when the Šumava valleys turn into seasonal Wenceslas, then the rich will look back, which other territories will be concreted and economically mined. For myself, of course. It should not be hindered by municipalities and residents in the areas of national parks to develop their activities and evaluate their property, but we must prevent gold-diggers from parasitic on the qualities and beauty of nature, who economically exploit, devalue and threaten the landscape and nature, or even destroy it. [[9.20 hours]] Last week, one of the senators asked me how I would face the problem of Sumava. I don't think Sumava has a problem. The problem is us, the problem is us, or we're making too much of a problem. Our situation is the result of a centuries - long departure from spiritual values that included humility and humility. We live in an era of minimal ethics, the original existential concept of values has turned into a spiritual and material wilderness, whose centers become a reflection of human self-centredness and primitive utilizarism, no longer with any human consideration and leftovers of humility. People's shaped cultural landscape is not a self-sustaining system. The climate around us is changing, spontaneous processes and landscapes are changing, and human society is changing. It is a huge gamble not to have several units of per cent of the territory where we can watch how natural spontaneous forces with a minimum of human intervention will cope and how nature will seek its variable balance for the given time and place. The reverse behavior of human society is a very risky business, and even more so than transport, you don't think you'll pay. In the Senate proposal, I do not see so much power of the municipalities concerned as the opening of the door to developers and speculators. I am not sure whether the senators realized that not only the protected areas of Šumava but also the Krkonoše National Park, Bohemian Switzerland and Podyjí are at stake. As has been said here several times, this law is not the law on Sumava, this law is about all four national parks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u5	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Šarapatka is registered. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened quite carefully to the views of both sides, and I must say, although I am alone from the mountains, I do not have a completely alienated view of this issue. However, what struck me is a different approach between the two groups involved. While the supporters of the Senate proposal are personally engaged in some way to convince us, even the President of the Republic visited us, so on the part of environmentalists or those who support the parliamentary version, we were just overwhelmed by thousands of spams. I don't know if there were a thousand, two thousand or three thousand e-mails. And I have a very intense feeling of manipulation, and for this very reason alone, I will have much to consider whether I can support the parliamentary version, however much closer to me than the senate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u7	Thank you, too. I'm registering two more factual points. Mr Böhnisch will speak first, Mr Laudát will be prepared with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. There is only one brief remark for Mr Šarapatka. Whoever wants to hear hear hears who doesn't want to hear, doesn't hear. I'd just point out one thing. If you open up a tape of the President's speech and read it properly, to your surprise, you'll find one thing that he hasn't supported the Senate version once in a half-hour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u9	Thank you. Now, Mr Laudát, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u10	Thank you. I'm just going to point out to Mr. Šarapatek that, of course, the way some people respond to our emails about Sumava, and they repeat the same thing a thousand times, is very unhappy, and I've already warned some of the people I know before, and I've said that it's very counterproductive. But here, please, Sumava nature isn't waiting to see if we're gonna survive some e-mail shit. Different psychopaths and lunatics write us intensely every day and months, sending it out to everyone because they have a mass e-mail address for all Members of the House and other officials. However, please, this is probably more than just a possible unfortunate form of attitude. But I keep thinking that it's better that someone in our society cares about something and does it in a perhaps not entirely appropriate way than that a silent majority who watches and rebels or wants changes when it's too late. So much. And I'm asking you to accept that they've flooded our e-mails. It's unfortunate, it's useless maybe, but certainly don't put it on the scale of the national parks - and I'm not talking about Sumava - that it's significantly different and much bigger, more important things than if someone's been smashing up our emails for, I don't know, one two months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u11	Thank you. Other factual points, first Mr Pilný, then Mr Votava and beyond. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. On the other hand, there are tens of thousands of people who expressed that opinion by signing a petition, and I think we should rise above some not-so-handed campaign and really focus on what's important, it means protecting what's left of us here in nature and not giving priority to the interests of the people who just bought the land for speculation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Votava now, Mr Zlatuška will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I would like once again to strongly oppose any merger, lobbying by developers. It's totally stupid. Please, you would have to say that about the representative of the South Bohemia Region, the representative of the Plzeň Region. Do you think they're also naughty that they're also subject to developers? [[Voices from the O.R. Yes!]] The minister's nodding here, I think he knows. So, Minister, if you have any proof, tell him who's being misbehaved here. I wasn't lobbied, Minister. Do you think the people who live in those villages, the mayors, want them to destroy nature when they live there with nature? Most of us don't live there, and many of us who send those e-mails - I got emails from Basel, I get emails from the North Bohemia Region, from the Moravian-Silesian Region - how many times they'll admit that they've never even been to Sumava, that they want to look there one day, and they want to get there so that nature is there as it is today. They don't even know what nature is like when they were never there. So, Minister, I'm just really reserving you to say this - say it out loud, who's being naughty. Say it out loud!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u15	Thank you. We continue in a number of factual points. First is Mr. Zlatuška, then Mr. Mr. Laudát. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u16	I'd like to say in the account of the previous one that I'm from South Moravia, but I don't feel like I should encourage the Šumava to destroy the park. I would also call very much for the e-mail campaign that was launched, I think it's spam, I think it's unfortunate, and I think the Rainbow Movement that called for this hasn't done a very good thing. But in spite of that, any campaign like this can't cover up the fundamental mission of the law, and what Sumava looks like. If we say that because of the fact that there are a lot of people who are willing to send us emails, and those emails weren't at least duplicated, they were copied addresses, but otherwise inside, it was obvious that people took a job to really write their position on the matter, so if we were to let this derail us, it would only be manipulation!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u17	Thank you. Mr Laudát will be next, Mr Kučera will be prepared, both with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u18	Thank you. I am not going to say a lot of lobbyists here, but nevertheless I am very sorry that, for example, the citizens of the South Bohemia Region have given support to politicians such as the Zimol and others. Sorry. And, you know, there's something else going on here. These people are committing something. They're applying for something. Unfortunately, when it will be late and Šumava will look like some surroundings and directly mountain resorts in the Giant Mountains, so just what will you wear on them? That's the problem. And I don't want emotions to rule here, but since I've talked to everyday citizens of Sumava in years past, they don't even know, nobody's talking to them. They don't even know what to expect. Maybe when their houses were surrounded by the monsters that stand in Spindleruv Mlyns, Rokytnice and so on, they might change their minds. Unfortunately, it would be too late. So I wouldn't say too much emotion here or stir things up. I think we can act calmly. And if you wanted another Šumava than the National Park Podyjí, Czech Switzerland and Giant Mountains, then you should have come fair and said: we do not want Sumava as a national park. And then we could fight here. But at this point, you're not just threatening Sumava, you're putting all four national parks at risk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u19	Thank you. Mr Kučera will be next, then Mr Gabal, Mr Votava and others. Everyone with factual points. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u20	Hello, thank you for your word. I can only allow myself a few words about my previous speaker, Mr Votav. Mr President, there is nothing wrong with you defending the views of developers and investors. That's a perfectly legitimate view. It's not something to be ashamed of. If anyone has the idea that there should be investment in that territory, investment and developers are not cheaters or thieves. That's a perfectly legitimate matter. If anyone imagines building there, that there will be construction there, which, of course, will take place, I suppose, on the basis of all the laws of the Czech Republic, will meet all the relevant standards, someone imagines the landscape built, someone imagines that the landscape will be there as it looks today, which means they want to protect nature, its natural development, that is perfectly legitimate. Both attitudes are legitimate, I guess we don't agree on that. TOP 09 takes the view of nature conservation, takes the view of natural development in nature. Maybe you're looking at the view that Sumava should be built up and that there should be some kind of building activity. Why do people from all over the Republic comment on this? That's pretty obvious. That's the name of the national park. I've already said here last time, it's not a common park, it's not a district park, it's not even a county park, even though the county council is talking about it. It's a national park. This means that the Chamber of Deputies and the entire nation are expressing their views on this. This also means people from other regions of the Czech Republic. Moreover, it is not only about Šumava, it is, as my colleague Laudát rightly said, about four other national parks. This means National Park Podyjí, Krkonoše National Park and Czech Switzerland. [[Attention on time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u21	Thank you. Just for the record. Mr Kučera will be voting today with replacement card number 13. Mr Gabal, Mr Votava, then Mr Jakubčík and others, will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Madame Senator, colleagues, Minister, I just wanted to point out that the participatory component of the decision-making on this legislation is completely legitimate, as important as the territorial, environmental content. First, we experience as the House that people actually write to us that it isn't generated or copied. For your information, I recently met a dog walking around the Letná Lady who told me: thank you very much, you changed my 16-year-old daughter's opinion of Parliament just by answering her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u23	Thank you. Mr Václav Votava will now speak, then Mr Jakubčík will speak with factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'm the last one who wishes nature in Sumava was destroyed. And I believe that this is the case with most of those people who push or want him to win here, winning the Senate proposal as a compromise proposal. Trust me. We really need to retreat. And, Minister, I'm really sorry to hear you say that these mayors are being bullied by some developers. Of course, I don't want what you have in mind, any development projects, flats, and I don't know what it's all about. I don't wish for it, and I don't think it's quite possible. There are a number of legal standards, construction law and so on. Anything can't be built there. People want to live there in harmony with nature. And I said here last time, you have to consider that there aren't only trees and plants and frogs, but that there's also a human, really. And that person needs to be looked after there, too. I don't think any of them want nature to be destroyed. Let's keep the wilderness there to an acceptable degree. To an acceptable extent, it exists together with the wilderness and man. And I think that's what the Senate proposal is. Don't be mad at me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u25	Thank you. I will correct that Mr Kučera is voting today with a replacement card number 15, not 13. Now, Mr Jakubčík, Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u26	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, I will follow up on Mr Laudát. He told Sumava to be the same as the other national parks. But do you realize that you can't? Tell me one single village, which is on the territory of the National Park Czech Switzerland, which is on the territory of the National Park Krkonoše, which is on the territory of the National Park Podyjí. I'll tell you exactly how many there are. Zero, zero, nothing. In the territory of the Šumava National Park there are municipalities, in the intravilán of the National Park there are municipalities. That's the huge difference between Sumava and all the other national parks. If the Šumava National Park is separated from this bill, I will raise both hands, and if possible, I will lift both legs for the bill. But I can't raise my hand either, or I can't lift my finger for this bill of law, if it includes Sumava with its municipalities, which are in the territory of the national park. I can't. Next thing you know, my colleague Kučer. TOP 09, conservation. Yes, I agree. I agree with nature conservation. But let's remember one thing. Not only the conservation laws must be observed in the territory of the national park, but also the fire protection laws must be complied with there. In order to comply with the laws on fire protection, protection of the forest, conservation of nature, there must be fire tanks, natural fire tanks, there must be communication where firefighting equipment can operate. Do you realize that there are three million dead trees in Sumava that are partially laid down, partly upright, completely dead, dry trees? At the moment when the fire starts and this bill will be passed, the firemen will not get there. [[Attention on time.]] And the two choppers we have that are able to put out, they can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u27	Thank you. Today, from 10 to 12 o'clock for work reasons, Mrs Putnová apologizes. Mr Zahradník, Mr Komárek, will now make a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u28	Dear Vice-President, this is just a reaction to this lapse of opinion. The whole campaign against the Senate proposal is based on two basic lies that the Rainbow Movement produced. First of all, the Senate bill aims to abolish national parks, and second, that the Senate bill will have as a result of concrete, extermination and subsequent construction of Šumava's fairgrounds and golf courses, it is undisputed. Unfortunately, those uninformed people from Moravia, from the Ústí Region, who took over the motivational e-mail of the Rainbow Movement, and as Professor Zlatuška said, modified it by adding some emotional emotional attitudes, that is understandable, that is simply the case. These people haven't even been to Sumava many times, or they're just reading these things. But unfortunately, some fellow Members are coming forward and spreading these theories here, using words like wealthy people and things like that, that's really under all criticism, and it's proof that unfortunately, or maybe thankfully, there's already an election period ahead of us, and many parties are looking for their constituents where no one else seems to be looking, among those environmental activists who have left their Green Party, who are completely out of control, and they - I mean, my colleague, Mr Laudát, who seems to be looking for voters among former Green Party voters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u29	Thank you. Mr Komárek now, Mr Kučera will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, this debate is not about the law. I'm used to the fact that there's no public debate about the law, but she's led by some illusions. But we don't even run it here. On the one hand, they say someone wants to concrete the Sumava. On the other hand, the minister wants the bark to eat people. It's actually pretty simple. This is why there are two legitimate interests. One legitimate interest in the development of municipalities and the most satisfied life of people in the national park, the other interest in the conservation of nature. But beware, that's not the nature's interest. Nature doesn't have interests, really. That's also human interest. That's the interest of another group of people who want nature undisturbed. And the interest is reasonable. The whole debate is useless because the President, who joined it, has also taken part in the illusion. I'm sure the president read the law, but he just didn't want to read it right. He didn't want to for a reason. That law already takes account of the balance of these two legitimate interests. This law creates a compromise between the interest of people living in national parks in the development of their communities and the interest of people who want national parks intact. From my point of view, the law is very good, very decent and very considerate, and I think there is no problem with us voting for it. At the same time, it is not true that mayors who want to change it a little bit, and senators who have incorporated their comments into their amendments are some werewolves who want to concrete Šumava. [[Attention on time.]] They just want to move legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u31	Thank you. Now, with Mr Kučera's point of fact, Mr Laudát will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u32	Thank you for the floor. I must respond to my two previous speakers, which means Mr Jakubčík and Mr Zahradník. I would like to say to Mr Jakubčík - through Mr President that the Šumava municipalities really lie on the national park cadastral and are not interested in being removed from the territory of the national park. [[President: Through me.]] This means, on the direct question I had for Mr. Mayor of Modrava, whether he would want the built-up territory of the municipality of Modrava to be removed from the national park, he replied that he did not. So he's where he wants to be, in the national park, and he's taking advantage of all the benefits he gets from the national park. To Mr Zahradník and, more or less, to Mr Jakubčík, we have other laws that prevent those municipalities from investing in the way they should not. I mean, they were - I want to remind the village of Moldava in the Ore Mountains, where a large photovoltaic power plant was built, although it did not have a building permit, because there were some bribes at the construction office. The clerk doesn't work there anymore. And I think both gentlemen know which parties were behind it. So today we have - it was your two parties, Mr Jakubčík, through Mr President and Mr Zahradník through Mr President. That means we don't have to wonder if there's an election campaign or if there's an election campaign going on. I think we should get back to this discussion about Sumava, and we shouldn't blame ourselves here by looking for someone or not looking for desperate voters. I think that this topic was discredited by events such as the photovoltaic power plant in Moldova. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u33	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Laudát, after whom Mr Jakubčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u34	Thank you. I'm just gonna respond to these notes where I hunt or don't hunt voters. A lot of you know I'm not running anymore, so I don't know why I'd hunt voters somewhere. But I'm saying my thoughts here. And as for that - and we had fun and we touched the regional council of Plzeň and the South Bohemia Region, I'm afraid I'm not going to get the honor of testing them here to see if they know anything about the country's basic security systems. They might read there that biodiversity is one of the essential components, and even integrating and basic components for the safety of each country, and thus the population living on that territory, in a broader context. So when I'm talking about something here -- and if you're shaking about it, and some of you are using it to depress the fugitives here and so on, the real reason wasn't the Američan, as someone keeps shouting about why the Middle and Middle East nations were marching. These were climate change and the collapse of social systems. You set it in motion. That they then wrapped up in some fanatical religion is a secondary problem. And if you want to create an unsolvable situation for those young people sitting up there, if you want to force them to give maybe a trillion investment with uncertain results to maintain the environment, please continue! I know very well, unlike other people I'm talking about. And this isn't about getting any more stuff and parasiteing. Even in Prague, in a completely different guard, see what it looks like here. Then when someone pushes into a conservation park and parasites on it without bringing new quality. So at this point, I don't have the need to hunt any voters in populism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u35	Thank you and now Mr Jakubčík. Mr. Junek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u36	Thank you. I hope I get to perform for the last time. One thing. Yes, some kind of solar power plant was built somewhere in the Ore Mountains. So be it. But I don't know it's in national park territory. Otherwise, a birdhouse will not be built on the territory of the Šumava National Park without the approval of the management of the national park. We've got a lot of state authorities here expressing themselves on the construction projects they're supposed to be, or they could be in national park territory. And the last person to decide that is the management of the national park. So that's one thing. And the second thing about the Minister. You're nodding that the deputies are being misbehaved. Please show me which regional representative, who mayor from Pilsen and South Bohemia region has ever been misbehaved by! Please prove it to me. Tell me Deputy XY would be naughty with lobbyist XY to have a skyscraper built on Sumava. Please prove it to me! It's all just a phrase. Just like the developers. It's just a phrase! [[9.50 hours]] One thing. All of you who are fighting for the beautiful nature of Sumava, please go and see the border. The National Park Šumava follows the Bavarian Forest National Park. Take your time to see what the Bavarian Forest National Park looks like. There are satisfied municipalities, there are satisfied citizens, the Němec are satisfied with how the Bavarian Forest National Park works. Do you think the Němec are such idiots that they would have one of their jewels cut apart like the Bavarian Forest National Park? No. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u37	I'm registering your application, Minister. I thought you were applying for priority rights, but you're reporting with a point of fact. All right. Mr Junek will now speak with a point of fact, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u38	Thank you for the floor. I would also like to respond to a few things that have been said here in the debate. I would like to refer to the fact that some citizens who live in a region other than South Bohemia or Pilsen have no right to comment on what a national park should look like. It has already been said, and every citizen of this Republic can and should comment on this, has the right to do so. Another thing that has been said here, I do not know if from the mouth of Mr. Zahradník, but also others, that there is a kind of lie being created here, that the supporters of the Senate proposal want to build this Sumava, and that is not true. Mr. President was here, and you applauded him, and what did he say? He set the Austrian side of Šumava for example, where we have slopes where it works perfectly, where there is an economic forest. That's what he's been giving us for example, that there's a way for Sumava, and you've applauded it. So how are we supposed to understand that? That you support this and that is your intention in Sumava. Where's this coming from? And another one. What's in the Senate proposal? There is a change in the definition of the cultural landscape zone that will allow the construction in the national park. Then don't tell us it's not true! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u39	Thank you. I'm recording three factual points. First of all, Mr Kučera, then the Minister, then Mr Schwarzenberg. [[Mr Kučera cancels his point of order.]] In that case, the Minister and then Mr Schwarzenberg.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u40	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I didn't want to get off right now, because I know I'm gonna bring down more notes again. I think today's the only thing that's going to happen. Colleagues realize that there will not be enough votes for the Senate proposal, but everything is aimed at not being approved by the MP's proposal, so it is intended, of course, to delay, then the President's veto and not to approve anything at all. The game is transparent, it's a regular game from a certain side, but let's at least get it straight. We can each have our own opinion, but at least please don't lie. Mr Jakubčík, by your means, Mr President, or perhaps it is not a lie, but it is simply that you have not read it. Find me somewhere in that novel that can't interfere with fires. This can happen today, and it can even be preventively done according to the novel, these are things that, of course, are. Prove to me today that a fire truck or a helicopter can't get in there. That's total nonsense. That's the first thing. Second thing. It has been repeated many times, and Mr Kučera spoke about it, we offered, I was there two hundred times in the villages, I had x seminars, and all the municipalities, all the mayors I asked if they wanted to leave their territory from the national park. Nobody wanted to. Because it's a fantastic marketing brand. So let's not be hypocritical. The village wants to stay there and they don't want to stay there. She's a smart hobby, a little dressed, a little undressed, just a princess Koloběžka. That's the real truth. And then the lobbying. It doesn't have to be a lobbying of money, it's also a lobbying of hysteria. The hysteria that started around it. I spoke to the governor, I spoke to almost all the regional MPs, I offered an opportunity to explain. But there are such pointless arguments that you can't think of anything else. And, yes, I have some news that I can't really communicate, but I think they've also appeared in the media, read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u41	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Schwarzenberg, Mr Kučera, followed by Mr Kučera, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u42	Mr President, honourable Members, we are a very special nation, because we are the ones who like to cheat on ourselves. When I look into the past years, we were rebelling against the fact that the European Commission acknowledged that we should not cheat our own customers in the Czech Republic and call butter something that was a cheap substitute, a famous dispute about butter spreads. It's either butter or it's not butter. The same thing when a product that is known around the world that is made of sugar cane, rum, we wanted to replace beet and it was also called rum. This, too, is actually cheating on the customer. And now the pasquil has arrived from our Senate workshop, where we are told that where things can be done, there will continue to be a national park. According to all international boundaries, the national park must be without intervention. It's not right for us, so we'd rather cheat ourselves, call ourselves a national park that isn't at all, and that makes us happy. Really - Why do we always want to cheat ourselves in the first place? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u43	Thank you, too. Mr Kučera will now appear. After him, Mr. Ambassador Klučka. It's all factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u44	I will respond briefly to the words of Minister Brabec. More or less with you, Minister, I agree that this tactic is more or less the one that does not pass either version, which means neither the House nor the Senate, so that we do not have time to discuss it by the end of the parliamentary term. However, I want to say that you too are responsible, Minister. We've been discussing the amendment here since October 2015. She could have been discussed a long time ago. She's been in the House for disproportionately long, disproportionately long, she's been discussed without any major obstructions around it, even I don't think any obstructions. That's just a fact. So your part of the guilt that this novel is threatened in time is your part, Minister Brabč. I also want to remind you of another thing to stand up for these regional councils. So it is a fact that the regional council voted as it voted that there could probably have been some kind of lobbying in the good sense of the word. By lobbying, I don't mean the word bribe, of course. However, I would like to remind Minister Brabco that they were also representatives of the ANO movement who voted against the House version and voted in favour of the Senate version at the Regional Representation of the South Bohemia Region. And the only people who voted against the Senate version were the TOP-09 representatives.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u45	Thank you. Mr Klučka will now appear, Mr Jakubčík will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u46	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I can't not respond to the fire protection issue. You all remember the second reading of this law, where I was speaking with the amendment, by which text we were looking for a replacement at the time of paragraphs 7 and 17 in the submitted amendment, which strictly, strictly made it strictly impossible to exercise state fire surveillance in the area of prevention. We found the replacement in the text that extinguishing fire and implementing preventive measures against forest fires under the Fire Protection Act, preventive measures can be taken after prior consultation with the nature conservation authority and taking into account the objectives of national park protection. Before I put it, we were thinking with the Home Office, if that's the right definition, it's a compromise definition that needs to look for a way out in the operational deployment of fire units. We need to prepare all things around firefighting, such as access roads, stand-off areas, water supply and other and other components to ensure that firefighting units are effective and effective. I just want to believe that as described in the law today, and it concerns both the House and the Senate proposal that this will not be a problem in the future for understanding matters of fire protection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u47	Thank you. Now, Mr Jakubčík, Vice-President Vojtěch Filip will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u48	Thank you. Minister, you said here that representatives may not be maligned by money, but they may be maligned by hysteria or whatever you said. You're right. I see that a large majority of Members here are being vexed by the hysteria of the Duha Movement and the thousands of e-mails. Ad 1. Ad 2. You were talking about fire protection. You know very well that several fire inspections took place on the territory of the National Park of Šumava. I'm sure you know how those controls went down - a clear violation of the Fire Protection Act. The National Park has been fined several times. When there's an interpelation, I'll ask you if you know exactly how it was there and how many tickets the national park got, how many checks there were. Not one check went well. Reason: First, fire tanks. Second, the inaccessibility of the fire tanks. According to the Fire Protection Act, access communications must have a width of at least three metres. During the check found twelve important roads completely impassable - fallen trees etc. And one thing that is very smiling and amazing - in the plan to take care of national parks there is an absolutely beautiful sentence: The fire is a natural restoration of the forest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u49	Thank you, too. Now Vice-President Vojtěch Filip. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would not have performed without the comment from Minister Brabec. The law is wrong from a legislative point of view. Neither did the Senate. And I've told the Minister several times. If we put the general grounds for protecting parks in Law 114, that's fine. But if we put all four national parks into one law and put in special ways of protection, at any opening of law 114 we will basically open five standards, because everyone can load change into a special way of protecting Podyjí, Labské sandstones, Šumava National Park. The park border can open at any time of opening a hundred and fourteen. This is not a question of the current bill. It is a question that in the future, Minister, you will make such a mess that everyone who has a legislative initiative here can use to prepare worse conditions for your successors than Mr. Exminister Bursík did when he created solar barons here. That was a disgrace! And you prepare the same.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u51	Thank you. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 9.30 to 10.30 for working reasons, Mr Kořenek apologizes and from 14.30 to 17.00 for working reasons, Mr Adámek apologizes. So we will now continue with proper applications for the debate. Mrs Nohavová will be the first to speak, Mr Vilímec will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u52	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, once again we are discussing the amendment to the Law on the Protection of Landscape and Nature. This amendment has its supporters and opponents. I'm sure we can all agree here that the amendment is necessary. The dispute is whether national parks need one legal standard despite their specifics. What is true of one national park may not suit another. In such a case, there would have to be a detailed solution in the amendment to the Act for individual national parks and not to circumvent the non-individualities of sub-legal standards, i.e. some decrees. As a Member elected for the South Bohemian Region, I do not care what is happening especially around Šumava. In recent days, we have been overwhelmed by e-mails expressing disagreement with Senate amendments, with which the amendment actually returns to the Chamber of Deputies. I have to say that the manuscript of these e-mails is the same in all cases - to preserve the wilderness and to impose non-attackability on most of the area, i.e. I would say, the wishes of various environmental associations. This may not have a major impact in a small national park, but it will have a destructive effect on Šumava. Moreover, it will have an impact on the overall climate of southwestern Bohemia. These ecological associations are trying to establish regimes typical of national parks where people have never lived, i.e., in the populated Sumava, where they have lived for centuries. to promote a large-scale wilderness. Actually, let's ask ourselves what wilderness is. It's not legal. Thus, this word cannot be treated as if it were part of the law. Therefore, it is not possible for the public to identify with this view of environmental activists who support it. After all, protecting nature and improving its preserved condition should be the basic duty of every citizen. Today, eco-activists have managed to promote the wilderness to 23 percent of the Sumava. Well, what's the result? The loss of the green forest, as a result of which changes in the water regime, disappears the air humidity, drys the forest, but also the wells of the inhabitants of Šumava. The last relatively dry years have made the situation in Sumava worse, and the Vltava spring has also lost water, which all eco-activists, although seen by thousands of visitors, are cheerfully denying, stating that it is clogged. The Ministry of Environment announces billions of programmes to maintain water in nature, but by its approach to Sumava, it practically does everything to keep water as low as possible. The proposed standard can eliminate the effectiveness of forest law in terms of the obligation to intervene against pests. The Ministry's actions are superior to the infamous decisions of Ex-minister Bursík, whose decision was destroyed by 20 thousand. acres of forest in Sumava. The criticism of the activists from the Rainbow Movement, which is strikingly consistent with the law's promoter, is aimed at sustainable development of municipalities, especially the fear that various golf courses, water parks, and I do not know what everything will be built on the most heavily protected territories. But that's a lie. For exactly everyone knows that there is no way to build in strictly protected zones. So why both the Rainbow and the Ministry are purposefully silent about the protective conditions that must be met? I mean, there's an EIA law, there's Natura 2000. On the one hand, you want to open the Sumava to tourists. You're lying in this case, too. Today, 26 per cent of the area is not allowed, and the design is 50 per cent. I mean, you're gonna de facto shut her down. Sumava has just so many specifics that the only possible solution is a separate law on a national enterprise... a park, not a business... National Park Sumava. The initiative for a separate law from Members and Senators for both the South Bohemia and the Pilsen Region was presented several times, but there was no political will to move the proposals forward to further reading and discuss it in committees. And the reason has always been that there is no need for a separate law on the National Park of Šumava, that the central amendment on the protection of landscape and nature and, of course, the subsequent care in individual national parks will solve everything. [[10.10 hours]] Given the scale of the amendment and the confusion in terminology, few people can orient themselves in this, and that's probably what the petitioners are counting on. By design you are trying to push through many times rejected efforts to create a museum at Šumava. If you really want to save Šumava and not make the situation worse in other national parks, then it is necessary that they really have their own law. This resolution emerged from the meeting of the Regional Representation of the South Bohemia Region. The representative of the South Bohemia Region has adopted several resolutions in the past, which have long supported the independent bill on the creation of the Šumava National Park. The main reason for this position is that, unlike other national parks, municipalities are also part of the Šumava National Park and this implies the need to ensure their sustainable development. Unfortunately, the originally submitted amendment does not correspond to the long-term intention and limits the participation of municipalities in the events and formation of the Šumava National Park regime. The amendment allows for further expansion of zones to be left to spontaneous development, creating prerequisites for the implementation of quiet areas and the creation of new zones where the highest possible protection is applied. The Institute of Peace Areas, of course, allows them to be created in any zone. The nature of the individual acts issued by the Šumava National Park Administration is also changing, and the possibility of municipalities influencing their form is reduced. And taking into account the long-term position of the South Bohemia Region on the issue of the Šumava National Park, the amendment to Act No. 114 on conservation of nature and landscape, as amended by the Senate resolution of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, seems acceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, allow me to read a letter from an I.D. who lives in Sumava. Mrs. Květa Pěničková from New The hut has given me permission to present this to you. "Dear Member, I appeal to you with a request. Please consider what you will do if you support Amendment No. 114. I live in Sumava and my family lived here for 300 years in one residence in Staších. All generations behaved with respect to nature, including the forest they cultivated and liked. They worked hard to keep it from being destroyed by a barkworm. The forest was their breadwinner. After all, for money from collecting blueberries, cranberries, and mushrooms, they dressed their children and took things into the household. Even today, many go to Sumava in the summer to look for mushrooms. They're gonna disappear. They will vanish if the wilderness prevails. You won't be able to find them in that tall grass, twisted trees, and you won't be able to move. Unfortunately, not only the gifts of nature, but also the charming unique character of Sumava, beautiful views, huge trees, magical mountain meadows, springs and streams will disappear. It's all for people who've let themselves be dominated by diseased demagogy. Unfortunately, they have enough money and ruthlessness to affect people who don't know Sumava. As the President explained in his speech in Parliament, enough of our Šumava nature has already been destroyed. Please vote for the green Sumava, for us who love it so much and live here, not for the morbidly destroying ideology of people who live in cities and want to use it only for their personal interests." Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u53	Thank you. I have two factual points - the first Mr Junek, then Mr Böhnisch. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u54	Thank you for the floor. That really needs to be answered, just one thing. I like how you just have to snap on that dry note and make the fear that people in Sumava don't have water in the wells. They don't even have it in Eastern Bohemia. It was dry for two years, my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u55	By means of me, please address them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u56	Through Mr President. Blinking on this string is really misleading, and it doesn't seem fair to me at all. If you click on the pages of the Czech Hydrometeorological Institute, look at the beautiful map of water saturation. Sumava is definitely the best at it. The worst, for example, the Eastern Bohemia I mentioned here. So it would be nice if we didn't use the unfair arguments here. It is really strange, therefore, that it is also dry in Sumava when you cross the Elbe dry foot in Ústí nad Labem. And to blame for the fact that there are places without intervention, attacked by a crust, and because people's wells are drying out, it's really unfair.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u57	Thank you. Now, Mr Böhnisch, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u58	I was just interested, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, in my speech by Mrs Nohavová, in the nice Freudian slip of the special undertaking. It is, of course, not too far away when Šumava could become a special forest business. I hope it doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u59	Thank you. Another duly signed up is Mr Vilímec and Mr Holík after him. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u60	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I must analyse in some detail what is at issue in this law. Above all, it is the impact of the proposed provisions on the Šumava National Park. Unfortunately, this also shows up in the House, the debate is no longer on a material level. It has taken a hysterical and completely absurd form. I confess that I am very impressed with the hundreds, perhaps thousands of e-mails directed against the Senate amendment. Some of them may be written on their own initiative and with their own opinion. But it is hard to get rid of the impression that the vast majority of them are the work of a completely targeted and professional campaign. It is supported by skilled and media-trained NGOs. In any case, we agree that the lobbyist pressure created by this group is incomparable with any other area where lobbyists are moving and which are also subject to quite a fundamental debate. Since I have read at least some of these letters honestly, I do not mean those simple letters of two sentences, but some letters of a more material nature, I believe that really only a minimum, only a minimum of those writers really know what changes the Senate has adopted and what they mean or do not mean to the Sumava National Park. They usually don't even know the text from the House. I'm not surprised. Surely their efforts are not to read the texts of the laws under discussion. On the e-mails, and it has already been said, is actually the only thing interesting - where their writers come from. Many of these people, and I am merely stating this, do not disclose any further information about their residence, or have in the vast majority, if what they say is true, their residence on the hunts not only to the Šumava National Park but also to other national parks. But so be it. Everyone can comment on these problems. Any citizen of the Czech Republic can comment on this. I'm sorry that the wave supported by the pressure group of some environmentalists has also been hit by some media, often without knowledge of the matter. For example, the week before last, I asked one at least in the region a well-known editor supporting the emergence of the so-called wilderness in the vast majority of Šumava territory and the partial and unconditional parliamentary version of the law, whether he had read the Senate's amendments at all. I didn't. He answered three times the same question to me that he did not, because it is based on the opinions of the scientific community. It seems to me that the infamous expression of so-called work teams before November 1989 is missing to complete this absurd game. [[10.20 hours]] Yet among these letters are letters from people who deeply love nature in Sumava and have a deep relationship with their hometown. And one such letter - it does not attack anyone as opposed to others. And one such letter, at least a substantial passage of that letter, I would like to read. I'm just pointing out that she's a college student, a resident of Sumava Prášil. "Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me comment on the burning issue of approval from the point of view of a person who not only comes from Sumava, but who loves deeply instead of his origin and from the case that revolves around the approval of the law, he really hurts his heart. Let me remind you that unlike other national parks in the Czech Republic, Sumava is unique in the fact that people live right in the heart of the national park. And it's not a negligible period, it's the order of centuries. There have always been people who loved and cared for their landscape despite all the hardships of history and seasons. I firmly believe that the bond between local and forested hills has been very strong since the ages. Life in contemporary Sumava is often idyllic, also challenging and especially logistically complex. Support for the development of this area is also necessary for maintaining the balance between people and nature. In spite of everything, I believe that none of us, the real Bohemians, want development projects to grow here. On the contrary, we very much wish to preserve nature as we have here. Despite the inconclusiveness of most of the current vegetation. We have a need to defend the territory in which we were born, and we deeply love it. The bill presented by the House may seem happy, acceptable to the other three national parks. But not for Šumava National Park precisely because its inhabitants are also part of this unique biosphere. From the time I understood a little reason, I perceive that Sumava has become a biological laboratory that many employees of the national park despise and desire to change the situation. To build on the growth of a new generation of mixed forests, even at the cost of endless clearings, where the forests are dead, can take centuries to recover according to this scenario. However, no one is dealing with the current situation, whether it is a change in weather conditions or a drying spring of flows. Šumava has one great disadvantage compared to other national parks. It is too large for its non-impression zone to be shut down in a breathless manner following the model of the Bayerischer Wald National Park, the area of which is several times smaller, which is a necessary and unmistakable fact. I believe that, and I have tried to study enough the fact that the Senate proposal is not nearly as disastrous as the media call it. I dare say that inspiration is also found in the Laws on the Bavarian Wald National Park, which is a great example of a well-functioning national park in Sumava. The dream changes of the grown mixed forests, as Karel Klostermann writes about them, will come, but we will not see it. Maybe not even our grandchildren. But it is for this natural development that I would like you to stand up. Not for the radicalization of activists, not for the fear of development, not for the power of the media, but for the people whose pieces of beloved Sumava are flowing with blood and have it deeply rooted in their hearts." So much for the essential part of Kate's letter to Kateřina Kabátová to state this name. Now I would like to return to the Senate bill itself. I'm from Pilsen County, I go to Sumava. Even my grandfather built a water plant there when I was a kid, so he always brought me to Čeňkův's sawmill, so I have a kind of connection to this area. I really didn't hear from any mayor or residents of the local communities that they wanted to deal with the national park. I really didn't hear that. They want only one thing: to survive in their communities the massive effort to create another wilderness. If the Minister mentioned that he was offering, he even offered several times to the mayors of Šumava communities to leave the national park, I asked Mayor Modrava about it. You know, when you're offering something, you have to say under what conditions. Because I, as an elderly municipal politician, could not decide on the basis of an offer by one minister, even the Minister of the Environment, that the municipalities may leave the national park. How would the cadastrals of these communities be dealt with? That's not an easy thing to do. So you can't simplify it in this way completely. So if there's a one-sided view here so simplified that the mayors don't want to leave the national park at any cost, it gets easier because no one really talked about it. If you were to talk about it and make a serious offer, the offer would, of course, have to be specific and have to deal with things that aren't easy. You know, please note that the residents of these municipalities who live there have a constitutionally guaranteed right to self-government. To the sustainable development of the communities in which they live. If this right is called into question by the fact that everything must be subject only and solely to an effort to preserve and gradually restore natural ecosystems on the prevailing territory of national parks, including those areas that have been altered by the activities of man, then we really deny the right of people in these municipalities to live. People have always lived in Sumava, we know that, and I don't see why it should be any different. I therefore find it completely pointless that it is here, and it is sad that the interests of the inhabitants of the municipalities, the representatives of the municipalities and the people who live in Sumava and some higher interests of environmentalists or the scientific community are at odds. We should not allow the Nature Conservation Act to trample the municipal law into the country. Both laws should be in harmony, they should communicate with each other. I would like to comment on one more thing, which I also often hear, and perhaps in an effort called. a little discredit the Šumava community. There are repeatedly data that convince the public, often uninformed, what huge financial advantages come from the fact that they are in the territory of national parks. It's not true again, and I insist! First of all, municipalities do not receive any compensation for the fact that the State does not pay real estate tax on its land in national parks. They do not receive any compensation for being limited to their rights. And secondly, their operation in the middle of Sumava involves quite a number of costs. I have read in this context, even here, some analysis by the Rainbow Movement in October 2014 in response to the Senate proposal. At first glance, do you know what caught my eye? That the author or authors, even though they carry scientific titles, have not yet registered in 2014 that there is no self-governing West Bohemia region. I think that's a small thing, but it also talks about a lot of things. However, incorrect data are given in many other key passages about the financing of municipalities and their incomes. I can only guess if it's ignorance or purpose. The most common quote is Modrava. Yes, this community benefited from the taxes of a wealthy entrepreneur in certain years. But, as you know, the House has cancelled any incentive of the municipalities to receive personal income tax since this year, and therefore such a situation is no longer valid and cannot be repeated. Not to mention that this entrepreneur, as you know, no longer has a permanent residence in this village. I would consider it pointless to blame this community for not throwing out the funds received and having certain proceeds from them to this day. [[10.30 hours]] The authors of the above analysis published in 2014 also used mainly data from 2011, i.e. before changing the budgetary determination of taxes, which abolished the unlimited netting of the cadastral area of municipalities. Since 2013, as many know, only 10 hectares per capita have been counted, and therefore the tax revenues of most of these municipalities located in the Šumava National Park have fallen significantly. After all, the tax revenue of the municipality of Modrava last year, you can all look at the official record, amounted to 1.8 million. Crowns. Even in the case of other municipalities, it is not possible to talk about any completely atypical above-average income. Now I would like to go back to the proposal itself. I do not want to discuss it in detail, although I have read all the 40 amendments to the Senate, and I would like to point out first of all that we may well know that the Senate, or at least I assume it with the Minister, left in the law a long discussion of Article 23 on the prohibition of the disposal of land on the territory of national parks owned by the State. I consider this essential information that I would like to recall. In its light, it is clear that stories about the possibility of disrupting the most valuable territory of the national park by some development projects are completely false science fiction stories. In relation to the fact that municipalities are part of the national park, it is right for municipalities to continue to express their views on the principles of care, to seek agreement with the nature conservation authority of the national park on the design of zoning, quiet areas, routes and routes in these territories where people live. And if anyone thinks, including the Minister, the opposite, and wants to take these opportunities away from the municipalities, let them say it out loud here. I see Senate proposals as an attempt to find at least a partial compromise between the extreme concept of national parks and some guarantee that people can also live in these territories, as it has been in Sumava for centuries. They are not flawless, I realize that too, but in no way seek the demise of national parks or the possibility of development projects. Those are absurd and false claims. Perhaps I don't need to remind you, and it has already been said that for the Senate version of the law, the council of both regions, on whose territory the national park is located, has also expressed itself. I have been a representative of the Plzeň Region since 2000. I have a strong opinion on the question of the Šumava National Park and certainly in the management of the regions, and now I speak for the region of Pilsen, there are not people who would like to give way to any building boom in these parks or to dispose of these parks. There are people who know the situation, frequent visitors to the national park. Don't let there be any doubt about it. Similarly, the Association of Municipalities and the City of the Pilsen Region, which has also often produced a lot of ecologically focused mayors and representatives, has clearly stood up for Senate amendments. When we voted in the Plzeň Region's Representation, 38 of the 42 members present voted in favour of the Senate proposal, including the vast majority of the representatives for the ANO movement, I note that. And only one representative opposed, objectively speaking, was also an ANO representative, and three representatives, including the representatives of the TOP 09, abstained. This does not apply to what Mr Kučera has informed here that the TOP 09 would be against. She abstained. You see, I am a person who is not subject - I have been in politics for a long time, as a municipal politician I have been in politics since 1990 and I have not been subject to any artificial emotions and I am always trying to get acquainted with what I actually vote on. I think that Šumava really knows the best people who live in it and those who visit Šumava who are most interested in keeping nature here for generations to come. Today, therefore, with a perfectly calm conscience, I will support the Senate version of the law, and if neither version, nor Senate proposal, nor parliamentary proposal pass, nothing so catastrophic will happen. In Sumava, nature will continue to be protected, people will live there, and I think that maybe this is the best solution in this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u61	I thank Mr Vilímc. I now have a comment from my colleague and Vice-President Bartošek that it is now Mr Jaroslav Holík's turn and then Mr Vácha. I've got it marked this way in meeting management. I have a written application from my colleague Holík to see if she was out of the system. I take it that's what the previous management told me. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have come to my speech a little late, a lot of things have already been said here, so I would not like to repeat them. Yes, I too was flooded with about a thousand letters, but maybe I was one of the few who tried to answer them all, and from the reactions that came back to me, I found that behind each letter there was a certain person. Ladies and gentlemen, many of you will say, "Please, what are you talking about?" You're from the east, from Moravia, what do you know about Sumava? If I don't know something, I'm going there. And I visited Šumava several times and I have to say one thing that the barking calamity was not caused by this beetle, but that it was caused by a man, because about 50 years ago we ordered the wind of the rain there were eluted tributaries of the Warm Vltava, were deepened and the water level dropped there by 1.8 meters. Yes, please, you're six feet tall! So the spruce that is most represented there, which has shallow roots, was practically so weakened that we offered all those forests to the crust as if on a golden platter. Here, have a good lunch! I am very pleased that the initiative led by Dr. Bufková was created here, when these drainage channels, these elegant flows are once again filling in. Thanks to this, I would also like to invite you to a seminar that will be in room 205 next week, where Dr. Bufková will perform, among other things. Ladies and gentlemen, man has been transforming nature for about 5,000 years, and 200 of which have been intensely extolling it, but vegetation on this planet has been here since the time of the Cambria, or about half a billion years. Thanks to the creation of continuous crops, oxygen appeared here, and oxygen produced animals. And I don't think nature's done that bad for half a billion years. That's why I want us to give her another chance. Ladies and gentlemen, national parks represent 1.5 percent of the Czech Republic's area, and law 114 proposes that we give nature a 15-year chance to show if it can save what man has devastated. So let's give nature a chance! [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Ladies and gentlemen, over the last 100 years, a much larger surface area has been concreted and assaphalted than the 1,5 percent. We're here to destroy nature for a few crowns. A nature that actually gave us life. And for a few crowns! Can I have a little peace, please?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u63	Yes, I understand you, Mr Member, and I would like to remind my colleagues that discussions on a subject other than the law on conservation of nature and landscape returned to the Senate should be conducted in the foyer. I'll wait a little longer - even my colleagues here directly against me! Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, have you ever considered in your greedy desire that we want to make things better all the time, how will our children and our grandchildren live to breathe? So for that reason, I will vote in favour of the government proposal. Nature will survive without humans, but we will not survive without nature. So, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, this is 1.5 percent of the Czech Republic's area and it is 15 years old. And once again I ask, are you indifferent to the fate of our children and grandchildren? Let's give nature a chance. Let's give her 15 years and vote for the government proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u65	I thank Mr Holík. I shall now read the apologies received by the President of the House, and this is from Mr Milan Urban and Mr Pavel Antonín. Mr František Vácha will now prepare Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Nature Conservation Act that we are discussing here today is certainly a fundamental standard for our nature, and I am convinced that it brings a compromise solution for both sides - both for the party that wants to protect nature and for the municipal or human party. And by community, by municipalities, I mean real communities, not individual interests of individuals who hide behind the interests of municipalities and their citizens. We have heard enough arguments from both the proponents and opposers, and we will hear them again. However, I would like to turn against the President of the Republic's approach to this issue and, above all, to its obsceneities, which we have had to hear here. The president mentioned people who disagreed with cutting down trees in Sumava. He spoke of the girls who prevented the lumberjacks from cutting down these trees and expressed his regret that the lumberjacks had not cut them. For the disgusting laughter of some of you then fondly added that of course he meant the trees. Don't be mad at me, but did these poor things really seem funny to you? I believe that such drooling perversion does not belong on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, and I would like to express my fundamental opposition to these statements. I am no fan of the demonstrational binding to trees, I have never agreed with him, I disagree and I am his great critic. I'd like to tell Mr. President that there were students of our faculty among these girls. And if he urges someone between the lines to hurt them, he must expect to have something to do with me first. And that's not gonna be as easy as he thinks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u67	That was Mr. František Vácha. Mr Jan Zahradník will now respond with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u68	Mr Vice-President, I will not respond to what Mr Vácha said. I'm just pointing out one thing. Minister Brabec here seems to be a bit darkly pointing out that someone, some dark force, is trying to prolong our negotiations so that there is no vote. And if you look at who's logged on to the debate and who wants to talk here, and especially who's reporting with those factual comments, they're the Members who can be assumed to be, on the contrary, the supporters of the law. So I guess they're the ones trying to prolong things around here. Why? I don't know. I mean, the coalition here in the House has a majority, so hopefully it can handle it. So not the opponents of this House law, but, on the contrary, the advocates here extend the negotiations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u69	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We continue with Mr Václav Zemk. Mr. Miloš Babiš will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u70	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me also contribute my proverbial little bit to the mill. You know, I'd like to give you a look at the person with Law No. 114 deals for about twenty years, of which most of it at a professional level, because I worked in public administration and during my years of practice I learned to be in a certain neutral position.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u71	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you and ask for peace again. Please all from the left, from the right, from the center, to the debates that do not concern Act No. 114, they conducted in principle in the foyer and, if necessary, if they want to respond by a factual remark to the lecturer to listen to him. Otherwise, we're not going anywhere. Thank you, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u72	So during my years of practice I have learned to be from the position of public administration in a certain neutral position to different interest groups, either from one side or from the other. I listened carefully to all speeches not only here at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies, but also in the media and in various debates. And really, especially in relation to the Sumava National Park, the debate was very emotional. Maybe we should learn to get rid of those emotions a little bit and get to the essence of what these two novels are about. This is, of course, not to say that we should not share our experience here from regions and the like, as has been said here by various letters from different people from national parks or from people from NGOs and so on. Anyway, we should probably listen a little bit more. Because as I listened to various speeches and tried to look for what was common, there were oddly many common things both from one side and from the other side. For example, I have not noticed that anyone would want to disturb national parks, except for some minor exceptions, but there is a great consensus that national parks should be preserved. Also, I haven't noticed that anyone would want to banish people from national parks or parks. Another consensus is that we want to open national parks more to visitors and tourists. Once again, I didn't register anyone who said it wasn't, either from one side or from the other side. Indeed, the common platform is quite broad, and from my point of view, there is a certain misunderstanding of the patterns that can then lead to a lack of agreement. But let's get back to the blueprints. First of all, I would like to say that I do not think that the Party of the proponents of the House's version is intended to expel the people of Šumava or to close the national park, preserve it, prepare another grazing for spruce-eating icy-eating etc. But at the same time, I don't take the view that the proponents of the Senate version are being bribed by developers. I don't suppose that the colleagues who are fighting for this proposal here are involved in any way financially. I refuse that, too. We're not in any vacuum at the moment. There is a valid regulation of Act No. 114, on conservation of nature and landscape, which paradoxically is by far the strictest when we take it in relation to municipalities and visitors. There was such an opinion that we should at best leave the current option, but I think it is already very outdated, for time reasons, because the law was created in 1992, as the name itself suggests, as well as in terms of some unnecessary bans that are contained there. It simply is no longer modern and does not follow current trends in environmental protection, nature and landscape protection. As for the version of the Houses, I will address the conflicting points. There about the biggest argument of opponents is that there is not enough to take account of the role of municipalities that there are municipalities being oppressed, that their rights are being damaged. We must realise that nowhere, not even outside the national parks, we cannot carry out activities without complying with the law. For example, in protected landscape areas, you also have to follow certain rules. Of course, the fact that the municipality is in the territory of the national park means certain restrictions. But those restrictions, on the other hand, are redeemed by other opportunities. And I did not register that, for example, in the villages in Šumava - and it is not true that the municipalities are only in Šumava, they are also in the Krkonoše National Park - that development would be stopped there. Of course, from the point of view of the population or from the point of view of the municipality's administrator, the development could be even greater. On the other hand, we need to realize where the village is. It is simply in a national park, the purpose of which is to protect nature and landscape. [[10.50 hours]] The House version. Against the current state, and it is my opinion, as I said, I have been working with the law for some time, and I have some small experience, against the current state, the House version significantly mitigates the conditions for municipalities. There is a fourth zone of cultural landscape, where the conditions are very anti-existing. Some of the bans that have already been overcome are left out there. I can think of a ban on driving off the road or making fires. The municipalities acquire in their territory the status of a public authority, a party to the proceedings in cases where, for example, a general measure of a type is being discussed, I am thinking of declaring quiet zones where the municipality is a party to the proceedings. On the contrary, the position of municipalities is strengthened in relation to park visitors. The House's version cancels the preserved surveillance and access to the ban on entry into the first zones. This ban falls, which means that park visitors can enter the first zones where possible. I wonder what this dispute is about, the rest zones. Of course, the peace zone basically replaces the forbidden territories where they must not enter. On the other hand, if the House's version is adopted, there is quite a great opportunity for the public to intervene both on the part of the municipalities and on the part of the professional public. Relaxing zones should not be declared aimlessly, they should be where it is justified in some way. This means that in the finals, the places where it cannot enter should be much smaller than the existing first zones, where it must not enter under the current regulation. Another big dispute is how many percent - we are talking about the Šumava National Park - the park will be left without intervention. I've been consulting it in some way, looking at the maps. It follows that according to the current regulation it is some 25 per cent, which will remain preserved in the current version, or in the House version, which is the first zone according to the new breakdown. The second zone, so-called nature close, which should sometimes in the future in this long-term plan be without intervention, we are not talking about the horizon of more decades, so it is now about 25 percent in Sumava, which means that in the finals we would get about 51 percent, which is the diction of Section 15, when the majority of the park should be as non-imageable. In fact, it is also a condition for the park to be categorized according to IUCN international standards. If we don't keep it in the long run, in which case, let's resign from the ambition to have national parks. However, this does not mean that from tomorrow or from the time of the entry into force of the law or the amendment to the law, it would cease to affect most of the territory of the Šumava National Park. It's not like that. On the contrary, in those territories, in those other zones, the aim is to ensure that existing forests are stable, that there is a natural species composition of the forest, that is, the predominance of the deciduous, and there is a need for human intervention. So it is not true that these areas were left to rest right after the law was declared and grazing was provided to the crust. That is, of course, nonsense. I see that some people have different ideas about what a natural forest is supposed to look like. For some it is unacceptable to see dried trees, which are also part of the natural forest, when actually some cycle, there is some age development, there are dried trees, there are small trees, a variety of ancient vegetation it is. Everyone doesn't have to like it, but we just want to have national parks, and that's supposed to leave nature there room for natural processes to take place. Now, about the Senate version. I perceive that the authors of this text were guided by good faith or good intention to improve the position of the municipalities, to improve it beyond what the House version provides. Unfortunately, if I take it from a professional point of view, from a legislative point of view, the result is rather trivial. Of course, I don't suspect anyone that he wanted to hide some back door for developers or some timber traders, but some of the provisions of this law become impossible and there is quite a lot of confusion. Let me give you a specific example. If I take this in relation to the municipalities, where the purpose of the petitioners was to improve their position, then basically the provisions where they introduce in Section 15 as one of the objectives or one of the purposes of the national park to ensure the development of the municipalities, I cannot imagine that the management of the national park would be able to address the development of the municipality. It can't be done, they don't have the resources, it's not a development agency. This is ensured through spatial planning. And then it follows § 18, which says that projects in the fourth zone, in the cultural landscape, that is, in the territory of the municipalities, can only be implemented if all the purposes of the national park are fulfilled, that is to say, those relating to nature and landscape conservation. And in that case, any further development in the fourth zone becomes impossible. I can't imagine it being combined. There's just a clear contradiction. Other matters relate to § 15, where long-term objectives are left out, for example, and then referred back to them in the text, that is to say, reference is made to non-existent paragraphs, which brings confusion there. This is another legislative error. Then there are such bizarre situations, which I would like to briefly quote, where, for example, in § 15 para. The amount to be reported in column 060 of this row shall be the amount reported in column 060 of this row. (c) it argues that the purpose of the national park is also to use the territory for education, tourism and recreation, unless this is contrary to the purpose. This means that the purpose is something that is not contrary to the purpose. Again, a senseless formulation. That's one of the few examples. I'd find a lot of stuff like that in there. From my point of view, even the Senate version, although it declares that it strengthens the position of municipalities, it reduces it. I will, of course, vote in favour of the House version. I think it is better, there has been a better longer-term discussion, it is better legislatively. Of course, I do not deny that we could discuss in the future how to improve the position of municipalities, but I cannot vote in favour of the Senate version at this time. Probably most clubs have already decided how to vote, but I wanted my opinion to be heard from a point of view by a person who has worked with the law for a long time. I trust you'll take some thought out of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u73	I thank Mr Václav Zemek. Now, Mr Petr Bendl, with a point of fact. If there is no further factual point, then Mr Miloš Babiš. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u74	Thank you for the floor. I took it on purpose that I should not delay, because we have already fought a lot at first, second and third readings, but I did not receive one answer. I had one fundamental reservation to the bill and it concerned the seal and the pre-emptive right of the state to property of people who live in the territory and in future zones. When the state says that no one can actually start trading their property, it cannot take a mortgage to possibly expand its housing and the like, at the moment when the state puts the seal on the property of individual people, and the zone is movable, that means that over the years it can change, increase, shrink and so on, so I wanted a clear answer if the person who lives there is in the zone and the state will give it to the cadastral office on his property with a pre-emptive right, if he can take an ordinary mortgage. Because I don't think so, so it's a significant restriction on the people who live there, and it's basically driving people out of there because they won't be able to expand their activities anymore, or to provide for housing or expand their business activities inside the property that they own. Please try to answer me, Minister, or someone who defends this bill, whether it is true or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u75	I thank Mr Petr Bendl. We will continue with Mr Miloš Babiš's speech. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, the debate we are having here is presented as a dispute between two mutually exclusive concepts of life in national parks. As it happens, reality is much more colorful and much more complex. I am aware that we are talking about all four national parks, but let me focus only on Sumava, which I know very well. I will not read sterile texts about businesses in Sumava nor will I use the propagand word of the wild, but I will only talk about what I experienced in Sumava in 40 years, in the 40 years that Šumava went through my heart. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] [[11.00 hours]] I've run down all the Šumava rivers, silicone, I'm high on the studený Vltava from the Stozka. I remember the time when there was a border kid dressed in plainclothes on the Bridge, and he said, "Where are you going, don't you have a cigarette?" I'm high and gorgeous under Lipno Certova currents from Loučovic. I also know the beautiful stone sea, which is in the Vltava gorge -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u77	Ambassador, I will interrupt you too. I'm really asking all my colleagues to stay calm!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u78	I drive through Šumava on my bike from Železná Ruda to the Nový Hrade Mountains, where Šumava is slowly ending. Therefore, I cannot agree with the Senate version presented to us. Senator's supporters say they don't want hotel complexes, but we already have them. I do not want to use the words that František Laudát used before me, fairs that are in close proximity to the Sumava National Park, on Lipna. For the fact that they are no further, we owe the Government's order to establish the Šumava National Park in 1991. If it weren't for this government regulation, let's put our hands on our hearts where we would be with these activities today. I support the version of the law which has already been approved in the Chamber of Deputies. It is not true that it is directed against tourism, the development of tourists. We just don't want to be in national parks, for example. unnecessarily interfere with the water regime of the landscape, build dams or build asphalt roads for firefighters. And there's a question -- well, what about the development of the municipalities, what about the mayors? Much of the villages in Šumava do not want to build tourist resorts and hotels, on the contrary, they appreciate the undamaged nature and this is the right tourist attraction for them. What would some municipalities in Mosteck in northern Bohemia give for it! Dear colleagues, it is the reality and the absolute truth that Sumava has not harmed even as much bark as she has been hurt by changing political moods over the past 25 years. They were changing concepts, changing intentions, often more than 180 degrees. Here I see one of the greatest benefits of the draft of the Ministry of Environment and thus preserving the status of zones for the next 15 years. I see it as the hand of nature, and I see it the way I feel it. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, please note the enormous responsibility that lies in our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u79	I thank Mr Miloš Babiš. Mr Jiří Junek, Mr. But the electronic application comes first, my colleague, unless you've applied with fact. [[Member of the Klan: I am the rapporteur!]] Oh, I'm sorry, Mr. Rapporteur. In that case, Mr Jan Klán as rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u80	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Minister, fellow Members, I am the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and I am a bit of a backwater compared to the rapporteur on the environment. But to make a little comment here about the speaker, Miloš Babiš. It seemed like a tourist tour to me, what he was doing here at the moment, or telling us here, some sort of tourist walk through the Sumava. I've been to Sumava too, I've said it many times here, we've dealt with the problems of mayors, municipalities. Indeed Šumava has the problem of being a national park where municipalities are located. That's still gonna be a big problem. And we have always dealt with this in public administration and regional development. It's nice that my colleague Miloš Babiš, through your way, drove down some rivers, was there to see, drove down something on his bike, it's certainly commendable that he was parading around so nicely when I say it with exaggeration, but here we are dealing with the issues of the municipalities and the development of the municipalities. I have already said here that the purest solution would be if Sumava had its own separate law, such as the Plzeň Region, or to remove individual national parks from law 114 and then declare them a separate law. That would be the cleanest solution. That is why I have said here that, as rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, I will not vote in favour of a single version. I said that not one version is sufficient in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, but also in others. That's undoubtedly a fact. I just didn't really understand what my colleague Babiš was trying to say. Here it is really necessary to somehow compose the national park and municipalities. It's always gonna be an apple of contention. It's always gonna be a problem with Sumava. Just until we figure this out, Law 114 will keep opening up, if anything changes, we'll go back to Sumava. It's always gonna be a problem. I really appeal that the individual national parks be removed from the law. That is what we have tried many times here, and I have also tabled an amendment of this type here, which unfortunately has not been accepted. I'm sure I can see that, in the next parliamentary term, we're going to be dealing with nature and landscape protection again, and then we're going to have to have the sporadic apple of the Šumava National Park. I can see it vividly, because I think it's gonna be an endless story. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u81	I thank the rapporteur for the speech. Mr Jiří Junek now. I hope that we will come close to the end of the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u82	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to get acquainted with the KDU-ČSL club's position, which will clearly support the House's version and will not support the Senate version, however, in the context of speeding up the debate, which is already very long, and all the arguments have fallen, I will not discuss this in detail. koneckonců all, my colleague Zemek made the arguments clear, why not support the Senate version, and I identify with them, and our club identifies with them. So I'm giving up my opportunity to do this even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u83	I thank Mr Jiří Junek. Now, Mr Miroslav Kalousek, in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that I will not cause Mr Brabco any problem in the family business, but as the chairman of the opposition party, I would like to thank him for his performance and highly appreciate him because he has actually worked off the proposal for conservation of nature and landscape. The proposal required strong and patient negotiations not only in Parliament, but also with representatives of municipalities, conservationists and the professional public. The result is from our point of view a balanced compromise, which will allow the approval of which to preserve Sumava and future generations. That is why we will be happy to support his proposal and not support the Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u85	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. Mr. Jan Zahradník. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u86	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to speak in this debate on the second time, and I would like to remind you of some things. For one thing, it is very insulting for them to keep lashing out the decent mayors, the citizens, the representatives of both regions of being corrupt, the vicious, and I must say that they are decent people, honest and worthy of our appreciation for how they carry out self-government at regional level, at community level. [[11.10 hours]] Secondly, the House version is not a balanced compromise, it is the victory of environmental activists and the defeat of the people of Sumava and its self-government. Scientists who promote the wilderness are wrong. There are opinions and one of them is the Emeritus Professor of Forest Protection of the Forest and Wood Faculty of Mendel University in Brno . Radomír Mrkva, CSc. He says that while the original forest, to which professors such as Professor Kindlmann draw attention, is only about 13 percent of the area of Sumava in heights of about 1,200 meters and mostly where there were once edible-beech mixed forests with a mixture of spruce, which a man has cut off over the past centuries, that there are really only tiny fragments left, there is a problem. Part of the professional and scientific society is of the opinion that the original natural communities need to be restored, to use the preserved remains of the natural forests at the center of the reconstruction and to expand them further, says Professor Mrkva. On the whole other area then intensely plant beech, eat and other trees and transform spruce monocultures and prevent them from breaking caused by bark. There are no other ways to restore the natural forest. I agree with that view. We don't want to disturb the national parks, we don't want to cut out the Sumava, we don't want to concrete it. However, in the Professor's view, the concept of non-inhibitiveness has a different impact. If the aim is to protect nature without interference, it will sooner or later lead to bark gradation, sudden death and decay of the old economic forest, and then to succection and formation of a new forest community. There's nothing natural about this process. There are no beech trees, maples, asses, fir trees that were here before, it's just a succection where only the trees that were there are being restored, and those that have flying seeds, but at the same time they have not been eaten by animals. In these two opinions, of course, I am rooting for Professor Mrkva's opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, today is an important day for national parks. In 1872 on 1 March he was declared in the United States of America Yellowstone National Park. It happened in a territory where no permanent settlers had ever been, where some Indian tribes, trappers went after their hunts or discoveries. This national park is thus 145 years old and is one of the most beautiful, though not the largest, national parks. It's really a national park. In 1872 people lived in Sumava, intensively farming there, faced at that time the crusty calamity, which they thought was a gift from heaven, a Bohemian paradise, and then the owners of Sumava from the family of the princes of Schwarzenberg restored to the forest monoculture, and the consequences are still there. It's just a people's landscape. We have to take her, we can't leave her to her fate. Dear ladies, dear gentlemen, today is a good day for us to decide the fate of the Sumava National Park. I think that each of us will vote according to our conscience, not only according to what environmental activists order him or what intra-party club discipline commands him to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u87	I thank Mr Zahradník, and if no one is reporting from the point of view, I am done with the debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? Yes. Wow, newsletters? Not anymore.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u88	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have a short vote in front of us on two standards, two versions, two forms. As prepared as I was in the Senate, and I said it here and last time, to vote in favour of some amendments, and there were not enough amendments, there were about 10 or 12 of them, which were the appropriate addition of the parliamentary version, so unfortunately, the absolute breakthrough that occurred there put us in a position that we must, with full seriousness, reject the Senate version as a whole, as a proposal that has significant factual and legal defects. Indeed, when the Senate proposal was adopted, there would be great legal chaos. And that is not the justification of the Rainbow Movement, that is the justification of this state's renowned lawyers in the field of life in the middle. The MP's version, however perfect it is, can hardly be completely perfect, so I believe that this is the path of stability, that this is the way to really stabilize the situation for at least 15 years and let our followers, considering all the circumstances, decide how they will continue to protect nature in national parks. I say here with full seriousness, and I am deeply convinced of this and quite frankly, and I would swear it, the MP, or the government's parliamentary version, is a version that will mean no expansion over, let's say, as has been said here, tomorrow or in a year, over 50 percent of the wilderness, there will be no threat. I believe that this is a balanced standard, that it is a standard, which of logic things is really national, not municipal, not regional, but really a version for national parks, and everyone there will find their own. Please vote in favour of the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u89	Thank you. Mr Böhnisch is not interested in the performance, Mr Klán is also not interested in the performance. In that case, we shall proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm gonna sign you all out before, because I asked my colleagues who were noisy to have a debate in the lobby, and I'm gonna have to put them back on hold, and I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will vote on the motion for a resolution for which an absolute majority of the Members present are needed in the following vote. But before that, I will make a motion for a resolution. So I'm gonna run the gong again if everyone who's interested in making a decision on this matter is here. So allow me to make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended, according to the House's Press 501/6, as approved by the Senate, according to the House's Press 501/7.' [[give a lecture]] I've started the vote on order number 183, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 183 of 158 for 28, against 109. The motion was denied. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. In that case, we must proceed according to § 97 para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure and we shall vote again, in accordance with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt this resolution, a majority of all Members, namely 101 Members, have already been set up to agree. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the Conservation of Nature and Landscapes, as amended, as referred to by the Senate, according to House Press 501/6.' I've started the vote on serial number 184 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 184 of 164 for 117, against 20, the proposal was adopted. [[Let's hear it.]] I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteurs and finish point 2. [[11.20 hours]] Before we proceed with the next item, I would like to make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Karel Pražák apologizes from the meeting in the period from 28. 2. 3. for health reasons, Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec apologizes from 11.15 a.m. to the end of the meeting day and apologizes from 14 a.m. for working reasons for today Mr Matěj Fichtner. The next item is item number 11 and before that, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura has been given priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u90	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, allow me to ask for a break at the ODS meeting for 60 minutes. We waited after the final vote. It doesn't have anything to do with the last point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u91	Sixty minutes. That's 12.20 hours. Well, in that case, all I have to do is interrupt the House of Deputies' meeting for a break, a meeting of the ODS. Meet me at 12:20.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-01-ps2013-055-06-001-002.u92	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break is up. We will continue the agenda as approved. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
