ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u1	293. Crisis situation in social services due to lack of staff and poor pay assessment I will ask the plaintiff of this point, Mrs Jana Hnyková, to take the floor. And I would like to point out that the first one entered into the debate will be the rapporteur on this point. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'll just put on my glasses. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good afternoon. I would like to thank you very much at the beginning of this point for including this item at the Chamber of Deputies' meeting. Yesterday I described the reasons why I wanted this point and why I wanted to include it in the Chamber of Deputies meeting. I would like to remind myself of some important things and describe the situation in social services. Social services staff are permanently overloaded. We all expect them to do good work for the people they care for. But no one cares how little money they get for this highly physical and mentally demanding work. They take care of seniors and disabled people. Today, for example, it is common practice, and unfortunately, I have to say that it is also necessary in my facility, where I came from, that only one worker serves for the night service in a department with 30 to 35 clients, most of whom are dependent on the help of another person. In our facilities, we do not have persons other than those who are dependent on the help of others. I will remind you that only clients with a degree of care allowance in stages III and IV are currently admitted to the facility and this is associated with care in all daily activities. It is hard to get new employees to fill a vacancy in social services, because few people will meet the requirements for them. They must have a course, educate themselves for life, be criminally blameless, have exemplary moral qualities, be manually skilled not only in the care of the client. They must control communication skills because they meet clients with various diseases that are limited in communication. And I do not describe the importance of social workers who run the whole process of social work. He must have a college education. Unfortunately, these are the worst rewards among college students. It's very rusty. [[14.40 hours]] All of this together makes new employees normally leave within one month. There are even cases where he won't finish his shift. I have to agree with the statement that extreme working conditions have driven health care workers out of hospitals, and now the personnel crisis has fully started in social services. Today, low wages at the level of working poverty are no longer accepted by workers. Whoever can, goes to the industry, to the store, anywhere else. The starting salary of the employee in social services, which provides basic care, is in the fourth stage for the incoming worker CZK 9,650 and for a worker with experience over 32 years CZK 14,530. In the fifth grade there is a starting salary of CZK 10 470 and after 32 years of practice in this field is 14 530 - but I'll probably have a typo here, I'll get back to it. The average wage in Lidl business chains is CZK 24,897. Caregivers and caregivers work in three-shift traffic on holidays, Saturdays and Sundays. While wages are rising faster in the field of education and health, social services are experiencing a real problem. In addition, these professions are among the worst-rewarded categories in the Czech Republic in the long term. [[There's a disturbing debate going on in the hall.]] In the motion for a resolution, I want to compensate for the historic injustice when, in 2006, with the effectiveness of the Social Services Act, the newly created category of employees "worker in social services" was grouped from the health table to the basic table. Do you think they changed their work by converting them from table to table? Not at all. On the contrary, they have been added to the administrative work, the obligation of further education, the duty of a key worker. They had to learn a number of techniques and methods of work. [[There's still noise in the room.]] The personnel crisis due to poor remuneration in social services in elderly homes, homes for disabled people, care services, daily staff and other facilities is critical. According to the Association of Providers, the current estimate is that over 10,000 employees are missing. Lack of employees is already causing the collapse of social services, the capacity of individual facilities is beginning to decrease. The quality of care is also reduced and existing workers are overloaded. Mr President, I don't want to scream anymore!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u3	I understand. I don't want you to raise your voice, but I'm going to want my colleagues and colleagues to move their discussions, which are not related to the point in question, from left to right, from right to left. And I hope you'll be in a dignified environment... that's not funny. So, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u4	I understand that colleagues have something to say, but I think they should pay attention to social services, because we really don't know when you're going to need those social services. I'd like to recapitulate the current situation. From 1. 11. 2016 staff salaries in this area increased by 4 %. Promised increase from 1. 1. 2017 did not take place. It was yesterday that the Prime Minister misled you. This crisis situation has been highlighted by both providers, employers and trade unions since mid-2016. That is why I have tabled an amendment to the state budget to increase the salaries of employees in social services by 6 percent. Mrs Semelová also submitted this amendment. He failed, and the situation continued to deteriorate and deteriorate. I would like to quote from the press release of the Association of Providers and the Union of Health and Social Welfare. We waited several months with the unions to negotiate with the Prime Minister. The deadline has been postponed four times. We have not received an answer to the joint letter of September 2016 and the result of the last meeting of April is that the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic and representatives of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs have recommended that we go to the Minister of Finance. Social services and their users may not be a priority for this government, adds the President of the Association of Providers Jiří Horecký. I consider this situation to be a crisis, and I call for an accelerated discussion and an increase in the funds for the salaries of employees in social services and, in particular, social workers and workers in direct care and their transfer to Health Table number six. If this does not happen, social services are threatened with collapse and collapse of care in social services. Yes, there will be voices saying it will cost money. It will cost over 900 million crowns, but otherwise it will not be possible, colleagues and colleagues. If we don't pay employees in social services, we'll bury social services and their quality. As I said before, we don't know when we're gonna need these services. That is why I would ask you to support the resolution that I have handed out to individual parliamentary clubs. All improvements and good ideas that will benefit workers in social services, I will be happy to accept in this resolution. I don't want anyone to think it's a populist move from me. Who knows me knows that I have been fighting from the beginning of my mandate and I am convincing you of the importance of social services, their workers and ensuring quality health and social care. I held a seminar on this, warned repeatedly on the Committee on Social Policy, interpolated both the Minister and the Prime Minister. Please help these people, you will help yourself. I realize that if the resolution passes, it will not only be my credit, but it will be ours, all of us who care about the future of social services in our country. I therefore propose to you this resolution, which I will then sign up for in detail in the debate, and I will ask for his vote. Chamber of Deputies 1. Instructs the Government of the Czech Republic to address the critical personnel situation in social services without delay by means of jumping increases in salaries and salaries of employees of social services directly caring for clients and social workers; 2. Instructs the Government of the Czech Republic to promptly adopt an amendment to the Government Decree amending the Government Decree No. 564/2006 Coll., on the salary ratio of employees in public services and administration, as amended, which will be adjusted, inter alia, by the salaries of employees in social services. For staff stabilization it is unconditional and at least necessary to repeal the current Annex 1 and 2 of the Government Regulation. The staff member listed in Annex No 1 shall be placed in Annex No 3 and the staff member listed in Annex No 2 shall be included in Annex No 3; 3. Instructs the Government of the Czech Republic to allocate and secure sufficient funds from the state budget to increase the salaries of employees in social services. In conclusion, I would like to correct one of the amounts when the incoming worker in the fifth grade has CZK 12,910 and after 32 - no, wrong. I've made a bit of a mess of it. I made a mess of it. I'm gonna get you that number back, please, because I made a mistake here. I'm sorry, but the amount isn't high. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, very much that the debate be substantive, on this point, so that we can approve the resolution and continue the next agenda for our meeting. Thank you for your attention at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u5	Thank you, Mrs Jana Hnyková. We will continue with the speech by Mrs Marta Semelová, who will be rapporteur for this point. Then the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová will perform. Then we will continue the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, first of all, I would like to thank those Members who supported the proposal by Mrs Hnyková to include a point concerning the critical situation in social services. Social services provide indispensable assistance to the most needed groups of citizens, and it can be expected that the number of these people will increase in future years. Therefore, the requirement for their quality and availability and for dealing with the serious situation in which they are located is absolutely logical and most timely. I expected that they would automatically raise the hand of the Member and Members for Social Democracy, which has the Ministry in its own power. Unfortunately, only four Social Democrats voted in favour of the proposal, and so did YES, and only four Members for this movement, and I thank the eight for that. The proposal for inclusion in the program went through, and I'm glad. I would much rather be able to adopt a resolution, the first version of which was read here by Mrs Hnyková, who would oblige the government to take measures that will lead to solving problems that are more than enough in this area. Their common denominator is long-term underfinancing. Hnyková and I have repeatedly proposed, when discussing the state budget, an increase in funding for social services, with the fact that the situation here is critical and that, if it were not for annual financing over the course of the year, there would be many extinctions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u7	Madam, I will interrupt you for a moment and ask my colleagues to welcome the delegation that visited the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. It is a delegation from the Committee on Culture of the Parliament of Estonia, led by the chairman of the Committee, Mr Aadu Must. Welcome. [[Members rise and welcome the delegation with applause.]] Please, madam, you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u8	Trade unions are also pointing to an unbearable situation each year, which rightly ask for an increase in salaries and salaries for social services workers, which are well below the national average. Direct care workers take 12.5 thousand. Up to 14,000. monthly, including surcharges, overtime, Saturdays and Sundays, nights. Many of them would rather be paid to stay home and receive social benefits. Moreover, their low salary is later reflected in very low pensions, leading to a fall in poverty. As we are all aware, this is a very necessary and demanding job, both physically and mentally, on which dependants with disabilities, senior citizens and other groups of residents are dependent. However, the catastrophic salaries of employees lead to social services workers leaving and having no one to replace them because the new ones are not coming. The situation is very tense and getting worse from day to day. Personnel bases are at the limit of possible. There's nothing unusual about three or four workers caring for 50 clients during a 12-hour shift and a night shift. When one employee resigns, it takes several weeks or months for someone to take his place. After finding out what all this work contains, how demanding it is, that it is complete care of health, social, hygiene, leaving either after the first shift, or ending with the first payday. Today, employees who have always taken their work as a mission and dedicated their whole lives to it are leaving as well. If the government does not take concrete steps, there is a risk of a reduction in quality and other restrictions on care. It can be expected in facilities that those in need of care will not be accepted. At the same time, social services establishments record a large number of requests for admission. The situation in social services is very serious in all sections. It also concerns the positions of social workers with higher education, which, due to the lack of funding, cannot be adequately paid, so they are being dragged over by various companies. The same is true for technical and economic sites, which means cleaners, maintenance workers, laundromats, cooks, also with very low wages, with very low pay, cannot be maintained in social services. The health section provides care with the lowest possible number of people. At the same time, health care in social services is increasingly needed. Old people in senior homes or nursing homes are not grandmothers and grandfathers running in corridors, gardens or parks. They are in the vast majority people with a third and fourth degree of addiction, people with dementia, Alzheimerův's disease, Parkinson, just those who often need full day care, professional care for 24 hours a day. Today, in many residential establishments, the situation is that nurses serve during the day, but they are not on night services because there is no money for them. Their care is replaced by a quick rescue service. I guess it's clear to everyone that these trips are more expensive than if medical personnel were paid. So today it seems that there is a large group of people for whom the availability of quality health care is more or less unrealistic. However, responsibility for what happens when there is not a doctor or enough nurses in the facility is borne by this residence facility. That's not normal. There's got to be something we can do. Health and social unions are proposing, and I support this proposal that the government should decide that social workers and those who are directly caring for clients have been transferred to the tables where nurses are today. At the same time, it is necessary for the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Health to stop throwing the problem of nurses in social services as hot potatoes, and given that they cannot agree, the government should address the current situation, as proposed by the Committee on Social Policy, at its meeting. If the State wants quality care to be provided by qualified workers, it must also pay them. It is a service that is referred to by a large number of people. Perhaps members of the families of some of you are also dependent on her. Maybe we'll be depending on her someday. Then it is likely that our view will change, that we will realize how important a patient approach is for willing, welcoming, unloaded social and health workers and workers who can provide not only professional care, but also find time to talk with a person normally humanly, to fill his time and try not to feel alone. Perhaps then we will also see much more clearly the conditions under which workers in social services carry out their activities. I'm just worried that it shouldn't be too late for some social services to work here at all. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u9	Thank you, Mrs Marta Semelová. She will now speak with the priority right of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and then in the debate with the factual remark of Mrs Hnyková. Mrs. Válková will be ready. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u10	Mr Vice-President, Members, thank you for this point. I must say that, in the vast majority, I completely agree with my previous speakers. The only thing I don't agree with is that this government is perhaps ignoring this situation, or, for God's sake, my Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is ignoring this situation because it is absolutely not true. I'm fighting to raise salaries and wages for these people who are doing so demanding and necessary work all the time of their government activity. Over the last four years, the salaries of social services workers have increased by 14.5 percent because of this government, when we add it all up, but of course when we look at what it means in each individual person's wallet, it's still not enough for me. [[15.00 hours]] However, we must realise that under the ODS and TOP 09 governments, public service workers have overall reduced wages by 10 percent. So basically, what we've been trying to do here for the last few years of our government still equals what's been reduced here. And I would much rather see that we increase it considerably. However, any increase in money means simply an increase in the state budget, and we all know here what it looks like, how it's fighting for every single item, how it's increasing, and how many people blame the Department of Labour for wanting more money all the time. We've sent an increase in salaries and wages to social services from our reserves every year. In 2014, 338 million workers in social services went up, 720 million in 2015 and 650 million in last year. And when I look at the total amount of subsidies for social services, I would like to remind you that in 2013 only CZK 6.5 billion went to social services from the state budget, and this year it is CZK 9.27 billion, so the total increase is about CZK 3 billion. This means that this illustrates the fact that the current government, the current Ministry of Labour, has already taken a number of necessary steps. But as I say, of course, I'd like to see a significantly higher increase. And I would also like to point out here that it is always the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which fights for this increase and which, like in this government, it is not only in this government, but in all the governments before and undoubtedly it will be in the following governments, so there is a constant struggle between the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Ministry of Finance. But that's what I'd say to evergreen quite regardless of the political situation. However, we, of course, continue to fight. And here the resolution that is proposed here, I have absolutely nothing against it, I actually agree with it. The only thing I think is a little redundant. But that's all I'm saying, and that's "excessive" because the government's regulation on employee pay in public services and administration is already being amended, which we want to see effective from 1 July 2017. This will increase wages by 5.1 percent for direct care workers, as well as for other workers, by 9.4 percent. And the total amount that will only apply to the increase, but only in social services, because workers in other areas will be able to do so, so it is about 650 million. And that's actually part of the resolution. So that's on the way. And it's been prepared for a long time, but since this is about raising funds, of course it was the subject of a long negotiation. Otherwise, there is another option, which is also mentioned in this resolution, which is now called for by the unions, and it is that workers in direct care should be rewarded as health workers, where there would be about 20% increase, which could amount to up to 4 000 per month for social workers. That, of course, I would very, very much like to see us push through, but unfortunately, with regard to the funds, I do not see this real until 1 January 2018, but unfortunately from 1 July. However, in about two weeks' time, I will carry to the government a foundation where both variants will be, i.e. In fact, what the resolution proposes will be in the government in about two weeks. Once again, I must say that we do not have a government where there is only one party and where the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs would be a person who can decide for himself. We are always in the coalition, we must agree, and then the budget is presented to the Chamber of Deputies, where there are also many conflicting interests, and we must agree again. And I am very glad that this point has been included here today because I would say that it strengthens the argument that I have said many times in the government - and that, first of all, we need to pay these people properly, because, as has already been said here, we never know when we will need them either in person or when they will need our loved ones, and secondly, it is simply scandalous for people from such important posts to have to go to the private sector, not saying that with college, they actually pay more to go to the register of a large supermarket, because they just have a few thousand more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u11	Thank you, Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. Now, with Mrs Jana Hnyková's factual remark. It will be prepared with the priority right of Mrs Černochová and Mr Kučera. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I apologize to all of you for not telling you the fifth grade here before, because as I copied it and wanted to have the best speech for the Chamber of Deputies, so in the fifth grade or the basic one with which employees enter social services, it is CZK 10,470 and after 32 years they have CZK 15,70. I don't want to mislead anyone, these are gross amounts, no extra charge for exchange, of course, but that's not that high. Even if I take this opportunity, I would of course like to thank the Minister for supporting us on this extraordinary point. However, I would like to draw your attention, colleagues, to the fact that this increase for workers in direct care on what has been agreed by the Minister and then the Prime Minister with the social partners is only about 5%. And if you look at the basic amounts of those salaries, it's a very minimal increase, and that doesn't solve the situation. Please, I would very much like those direct care workers who take care of these clients to be really transferred to the health chart, where they belong, and there are social workers with their work to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u13	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Now, with Mrs Jana Černochová's priority right. Mr Kučera will be ready, then another enrollment. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. For a long time now, I have felt from this government that it does not realize that we are at the end of the parliamentary term and that it is you, the ministers of the government of the ČSSD, KDU-ČSL and YES who have to account for what you have done or have not done for 3.5 years. I'm fascinated by what was just said here by Secretary Marksová. Excuses that the TOP 09 government and the ODS didn't do anything. The TOP 09 and ODS government ruled more than three years ago. Three and a half years you've ruled. And as she rightly said here by your means, Mr Vice-President, Mrs Hnyková, the increase for workers in direct care is absolutely ridiculous. I am also sorry that Minister Marksová will not learn in this regard from how we do it in Prague 2, where she is a representative and where she has been vice mayor of social matters for a few months in this area, where we have an established social services centre, which provides from palliative care to PCB care, to lightening service, the range is very wide indeed. And the Minister knows very well what problems this centre is facing, the financial problems that are lacking in employees' salaries, and that we must do so, because we want to maintain this service for our seniors, the disabled, and to improve it and give more money to it. So, as Prague 2 we are finishing up with considerable social service funds from our budget. [[15.10 hours]] After all, the Minister knows that it is not systemically right for self-government to make an effort, to find buildings, to reconstruct those, to find complex personnel to work in these facilities. Finding a man who will work in the social services center for a salary of 17, maybe 19,000 is almost unthinkable. If you imagine that these workers really need to be physically fit to help immobile patients, it is a superhuman task to find someone who is able to take care of these people without destroying the health of a fragile social service worker. On the contrary, I would like to hear from the Minister the promise of what she, as Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, will do for these people. We only hear promises here, only proclamations, only political floscule, but the reality of your government in three and a half years is completely elsewhere. As far as you can agree in a government coalition that you will raise the salaries of civil servants, you have a consensus on that, but a consensus is that you really raise the budget in this area and that municipalities, regions, do not have to complete the services they provide for the state, for no one else. We are not as founders, it is a contribution organization, we are obliged to have these contribution organizations, but because we want to take good care of our seniors and disabled as municipal politicians, so we are doing this work for the state and the state is mocking us here, and Minister Marksová is ironic so that the governments that ruled four years ago are responsible for this. Please come to your senses. Remember what year we're in. We're in April, almost May 2017, and you've been in charge for four years!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u15	That was Mrs Jana Černochová. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, also with priority rights. Mrs. Válková will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u16	Thank you for the floor. I'm just going to briefly amend my previous speaker, Mrs Černochová. I have to agree with her. To me, it seems like a total outrage from Secretary Marksová about what was here four years ago. I would like to remind the Minister that the item we are discussing today is called the krizový Situation in Social Services as a result of a lack of personnel. Madam Secretary, this is your result, your governance, your result, the result of social democracy, the result of the YES movement and the outcome of the People's Party. No one else. You haven't been able to do anything about it in four years. You haven't been able to change the condition in four years. You didn't even come up with a solution in four years, with any proposal that would change the situation. All you've come up with is an increase in civil servants' salaries, an increase in the number of civil servants, which I think you're doing very well. I also want to say that fundamentally - Madam Secretary is leaving, I don't know if we're going to move on?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u17	We probably won't, because I have to ask the heads of the government party clubs to secure at least one of the ministers, because the Minister is actually right that she has apologized properly since 15 o'clock this morning.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u18	Allow me to respond briefly. We ended the meeting last night because the government coalition here did not have the necessary quorum in discussing the laws of Secretary Marksová on social housing. That's why we stopped acting. We had to meet as presidents of the MPs and look for some sort of deal to get out of it. Now there's another point, Wednesday afternoon, there's not a single minister. Do you rule here? Is there a government here? Are there any ministers here, or are they totally blowing it off? I say they don't give a shit. The Ministers of the CSSD, YES and the People's Party don't give a damn about ruling in this country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u19	Thank you to the Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. I can only read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, and then I will interrupt the House's meeting until at least one of the Ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic arrives to comply with the Rules of Procedure. That's all I have to do as president. First of all, Mr Josef Novotný's apologies from 18:00 to the end of the day, from 15:00 to the end of the day, Mr Milan Urban apologizes. [[There's restlessness in the room.]] The Human Rights Minister Chvojka has arrived and my rights as President are therefore fulfilled. I'm gonna ask my colleague Válková to wait, because I have three factual points here. First, Mr Kořenek, then Mr Gabal, then Mr Karel Fiedler. Before with priority rights, rapporteur, or just factual? Mr Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u20	Thank you. I will try to be very brief. I wasn't in the House in the previous period, but I watched it as a citizen. I myself have a parent who is disabled and requires 24-hour care, so I know what that means, and I support any assistance to social services. On the Margo of my previous speakers, I would have made one comment from the way I saw it as a citizen. You have devastated these social services in seven years of government so that this government hasn't been able to put it together in three and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u21	Thank you, Mr Kořenek. Now, with a factual remark from the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u22	Thank you. I'm not gonna judge who's responsible for everything. I think that in 30 years, citizens and social services workers will evaluate it themselves. However, I consider it an outrage that such a serious problem as the social services and their critical situation, in which the majority of this Chamber of Deputies agreed, was included, that this is what the government benches look like when one sacrificial lamb was found, and this is Minister Chvojka. This is indeed an outrage, and it is a continuation of the fact that we are unable to discuss the placement and transfer of children from diagnostic institutions here in the Chamber of Deputies, because we have put in our resolution that the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs must be present, who is always boycotting it. And this is a sequel. I think it's a disgrace to this government!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u23	Thank you for keeping time. Now my colleague, Ivan Gabal, will also make a point of fact, and then Mr Karel Fiedler will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor with a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I did a little tuned up because I didn't know the Secretary would leave, but still. Of course, the situation is not good, but it needs to be realised that the Social Services Act was approved in 2006, I believe in 2006, which means that we have eleven years. Over the past 11 years, and even in this parliamentary term, we've been making changes in funding, and we've been transferring funding to the county, which is - I don't know whether we've simplified or complicated it, but we've changed it. Meanwhile, in 11 years, there has been some development in the capacity of services, organisations and everything, but also in the growth and development of demand. Eleven years later, the number of people who need and are simply vitally dependent on services has grown enormously. When you look at social maps, they are mainly allocated in peripherals, on the outskirts of regions where it is the hardest available, addable, everything. Even here in the city, it's difficult to deliver these services. This means that we need to know how to rationally develop and invest in services. So I wanted to propose, and maybe I'll give such a resolution as to whether the Minister or the Government could process a map of social services and offers. They have the data. It would be possible to have fun in the specific figures that we lack there, in which regions, how much to allocate on the edge, and what the government is able to do in this. We can curse ourselves here who did or didn't do what he did in 11 years, but we can't help anything. So if there's a detailed debate, I'll try to load it in and see what else the government can process. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u25	Thank you for keeping time with Mr Gabala and my colleague, Mr Válková, for our factual remarks have come to a great extent. Now, then, Mr Karel Fiedler, Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u26	I'm going to start a little different than I originally wanted, because what my colleague Gabal said here, I don't understand what he meant. I'm just going to repeat what my previous speakers said. You've been here three and a half years, and now you're gonna find out yourself, the party, the government coalition? I mean, think about yourself. You've been here three and a half years. I ran for a movement that wasn't here, I wasn't in the Chamber of Deputies last time, I don't care if there were others here before or if this government is here today. It's exactly the same. Unfortunately, even the new YES movement did not bring anything new, because, as we discovered in three and a half years, it became a very quickly standard party that only promises and solves little. About what's going on here with the laws that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs is presenting. We saw it here last night, we see it now, we saw it earlier. I think - today I allow myself to be very sharp - that the Prime Minister, when he changed the ministers of his government, was too careful and too modest. I cannot defend myself, or I will not forgive myself, that I personally see a great lack of quality in the materials presented by Secretary Marksová. I'm bohužel so.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u27	I thank Mr Fiedler. Another factual point is that of Mr Michal Kučera, Mrs Černochová, Chalupa, Chalánková, Gabal and Válková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u28	Thank you for the floor. I'll just follow up on my previous speaker, Mr Gabal. In principle, what he said may have some sort of core. It is certainly true that social services are one big chaos. At least from the point of view of who's funding them. We don't have to do a full review of this across the state, we just need to see who is represented in the cities and see how social services are financed in the cities. So, of course, they are financed from the city budget, they are financed from the regional budget, they are financed from various grants and, as a nonprofit, they are financed from the state budget. It's a total mess. We saw what it meant, for example, last year, when the retirement homes were waiting for money until the last moment and when we had to lobby directly with our regional representatives to kindly send us the money that, more or less, belonged to the retirement home in our city, but just stayed somewhere hanging in that system. And what I'm blaming Minister Marksová for is that she couldn't bring order into it, that she didn't bring order and she didn't bring the system. That's not worth a penny, please. You don't need hundreds of millions of dollars, billions approved by the Treasury Secretary or anyone else for that. Please just have management skills, have some vision, give it a system, give it order, and social services could have been operated more subtlely and efficiently.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová's factual comment. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like to respond to my colleague Ivan Gabal through you. Here, of course, and he, as a sociologist, knows it, is given some demographic development, according to which one can be expected to be very exact, when which age group will need some kind of social service, whether a lightening service or a service that relates more to the wound of a carer, etc. Please, I've been at City Hall for 18 years, and over the past 18 years, I've been signing visions, strategies, tables that we sent to the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, thousands. Now, I believe it was two years ago, a large map was made for the capital city of Prague. The data is. The D.O.D. has the data. Only the data can't read, it can't prepare for the future, and they're making excuses for not doing anything four years ago. It's ridiculous! Colleagues and colleagues, you find it truly dignified to have such serious matters - and the Civic Democrats' Club will support this resolution by Mrs Hnyková, not that we do not want to vote on it. But is it really dignified that we will discuss such a serious matter without the presence, with all due respect, only the Minister of Human Rights of Chvojka? And neither is the Prime Minister, neither is Secretary Marksová, neither is the Minister of Health, there is no one else here from the government. I do not really want the chance of adopting this resolution to put the ladies to shame, but would it not be better to propose an interruption to the Minister's presence when the Minister is able to sit and listen to these proposals?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u31	Madame, you have run out of time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u32	I know, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u33	Well, then don't make me break the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u34	I don't want to force you to break the Rules of Procedure, it just seems undignified to me as well as to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u35	I'm sure you do. Now another factual point by Mr Chalupa. The rapporteur wants priority rights? So please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u36	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues I've been listening to, I'm sad. I also belong to those citizens who have a family member in my family, in my case a mother who has had a severe stroke, and I know what it is to take care of such a person. The bureaucracy that is associated with caring for this person, for a family member who, for example, goes to work, is almost... Who doesn't know, doesn't know. It's unimaginable. Nothing has been done to help these people. Yesterday I was in Karlovy Vary, dealing with excluded locations, and there I will learn that there are people in this republic who own dozens or hundreds of apartments, rent them out, cost seven billion crowns, support people who do not go to work, and for these people who need care, we are unable to do anything for them. In 25 years, we haven't built senior homes here, the state doesn't care. Older people's home now costs 40,000 or more for these people. Is this how he's gonna take care of his seniors? And now I don't speak as a coalition member, I speak as a citizen and an MP who is very unhappy with that. And if the state doesn't do something about this and start taking care of its seniors, then we have something to be ashamed of, folks! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u37	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Ivan Gabal, with a factual remark, then Mrs Válková, will be prepared by colleague Soukup, Ondráček, Fiedler, Adamec and Laudát. Now, Mr Ivan Gabal, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u38	Thank you again. I agree with what Jana Černochová said, because the data is there, and the service organizations and social administration are constantly loading up the data. The problem, as far as I know, is that we're not able to flip the data interactively and start using it to coordinate funding. This is a very complex task, a very complex task indeed. That means we're not even able to figure out how much money we're missing at the moment, in my opinion. Still at the Margo of excluded localities in 2006. We made the map of the excluded locations. At the time, the government said it couldn't be mapped at all. We have the maps today, we know what's in there, and we can do something about it. We're not doing it super fast, but something's just moving around here. So you need to not whine and cry and look for a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u39	Thank you. Now, Mrs Válková, with a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, unfortunately a point of fact, otherwise I wouldn't have seen it coming, I think I'm going to withdraw my contribution. In fact, I wanted to follow up on the contributions of the previous speakers and the previous speakers, who are mainly in the absence of a system approach. I think that in 1990, Jiřinka Šiklová and I established a department of social work, which was modelled by departments and other universities. I think it's about education, too. So I turned as a member of the ANO movement to the Minister, now to the Minister of Education, before that to the Minister of Education, with a view to promoting education in the field of social work both at the Bachelor's and Master's degree. Why? Because I have a very positive experience in criminal justice, where we have just cried over the 90s and over the remuneration of social workers and over their lack of professional erudition, if they were to move in the field of criminal justice. I was preparing the Probation and Mediation Act with two colleagues, which was approved. We have qualifications for Bachelors and Masters, they're called probation officers, they're social workers specialized in criminal justice. [[15.30 hours]] I end my point of fact by challenging those who doubt that a social worker cannot be paid well in the Czech Republic. It's possible. Ask the probation and mediation officers who are specialized social workers. And once again, the positive account, when we are already politicizing, the YES movement, has managed to significantly, but really greatly increase the situation from 200 to about 450 of these probation officers. There should be even more, then we should be even better dealing with the situation of overcrowded prisons, because they primarily take care of those who receive alternative sanctions as social workers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u41	Madame, you too have expired your deadline for a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u42	I could keep going, but unfortunately...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u43	You are still duly signed up for the debate, so I'm sure I'll give you the floor later in the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u44	Thank you, thank you. Yes. Thanks for the heads-up.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u45	My colleague Soukup, Mr. Ondráček will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u46	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate, the debate, has moved on to somewhere where it should not have actually gone. I would like to say - of course I want to respond to Mrs Černochová and other previous speakers. In the regions of community planning and lists and the idea of what services to provide is there. And the D.O.D. works with the idea. But the biggest problem in these services is that there is no money in the regions. Mrs Hnyková rightly named the problem that they are poorly rewarded workers in social services. Moreover, although the funding of social services has been transferred to the edge, the Ministry still decides on the funds. And it's the right thing to do. However, there is a delay in the payment of money. They're delaying flats. The money's late. It's too late to announce grant proceedings. These are the problems that burn the basically development of our social services. Let's not look like that here, or let's not argue that they don't know what social services in the regions... You're a lot further in thought and imagination than we are here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u47	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. We will continue with Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u48	Thank you, Mr President. I'd respond to Mrs Černochová. Madam, through Mr President, I understand, of course, your indignation over the presence of ministers, virtually. It's more like absence. [[Only Minister Chvojka is in the hall.]] I would also understand the possibility of proposing a suspension of this point in the presence of the Minister, who should be here. But I dare say that maybe I go to church more often than Madam Secretary here to work. So in this case, we'd probably never discuss anything. And let's try to get on with our work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u49	I thank Mr Ondráček for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now another registered comment, Mr Karel Fiedler. Member Ivan Adamec, František Laudát, colleague Černochová and Martin Novotný will be ready. Those are all the actual performances so far. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u50	Unfortunately, it's regaining the level we had here last night. I will only say the same to my colleague Ondráček that I also think that if the Minister is present or is not present, he has no influence whatsoever and will have no effect at all. I'd like to say to my colleague Bohuslav Chalupa, he said here that he had experience in the family with the care of his mother, and he also said that nothing was done here. Mr President, you are a member of the Government Party, you are basically the strongest party in the government, even if it does not seem that way according to the mandates. You have the Treasury. You're crying on your own sand that you didn't do anything. We from the opposition can't enforce it. You block our designs, you don't approve. For God's sake, what are you doing here, colleague? You're a member of the government party. Your movement is one of those two leaders of the movement, and you have the Treasury. It's up to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u51	I thank Mr Fiedler. Now, Mr Ivan Adamec, on a point of fact. A colleague of František Laudát will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u52	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, I have been provoked here by some speeches by colleagues who have spoken before me. By your help to Zdeňk Ondráček, a colleague, I would like to say that Minister Marksová is here more often than you are at the church. Let's be fair again. [[Report to the O.R.]] But I wanted to respond here to my colleague Chalupa when he was talking about retirement homes. Well, I'm very sensitive to that, because it's not the government's fault. Retirement homes now fall mostly under the regions, they are established by the regions, or in a better case, and I say in a better case, they are established by municipalities. And I can tell you that in this field, in this respect, the retirement homes have changed significantly and improved, and it didn't matter what the government was like here, because it was the particular mayor's or the captain's. Especially the mayors who were working on it. I know what I'm talking about. I'm speaking from my own practice. I had a house built for seniors, where we have about 120 seats in a completely modern facility that was unprecedented in the Czech Republic at the time. So please, let's be fair, let's say things how they are, and let's not throw everything into one pile. Maybe when we're talking about the situation in social services and the lack of money, I'm fascinated by what social improvements this government is proposing here, and we usually approve it here, it costs a lot of money. But let me tell you, for example, we've been fighting the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs as a city for two years, because they're actually cutting our money short for the performance of the OSPOD, which is very important within our region, in such a way that it's probably going to happen in court, because we can't finance this anymore from public municipal money. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u53	I thank Mr Adamc. [[Mr Zavadil is reporting in an alley and is hissing at the President's attention to him.]] And before I give the floor to my colleague Laudát, I must point out that I will also take note of the factual remarks from the place, not electronic, but it will come to you only after the e-applications have been exhausted. So if Colleague Zavadil wants a factual comment, please e-mail the application. [[Member Zavadil sat down in the bench and asked: How?]] Squeeze on the appropriate button. [[The MP has stumbled: Which one?]] Šedivý. It's there, it's delicious. [[Fun in the hall.]] So now, Mr František Laudát, also on the point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u54	Thank you. Please press the button for login. Šedivý. [[The President is laughing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sorry, but you can see the very trivial conclusion of the term with your own eyes. Communists go to church, and Marksová, as secretary, doesn't even go to parliament anymore, maybe he's wondering who's gonna run, he's gonna win. I don't know. But it's very undignified to discuss this matter when it's not here, when some have already resigned and say it doesn't matter. To my colleague Chalupa. He said, "Nothing's been done." Say after those four years, we didn't do anything. He makes a pretty big difference, like he did in that one movie back in the '60s, when there's a debate and one affected pest, when he admitted that someone had been heavily salted, he dictated "confessed" and the opponent said "confessed only by a cow." So I'd really like you to look at the look on this side, for example, of the ANO Group of Deputies. Looks like drum music, all pauses. [[More than half of the members of the ANO movement are not sitting in their benches at the moment.]] I don't know where Komárek's work is. He even put it on billboards: We're not like politicians, we work. He's obviously become a politician, so in the spirit of this, as he looks at politics, he's probably not working anymore. This really is completely undignified. Social Democrats have grown in the meantime. However, I warn. If you look at the Czech countryside, you can see. And then you're surprised that people are frustrated. But on the one hand, robberies, special-purpose privatizations, I don't know where, and now handing out often and unnecessary, but on the other hand, don't blame those people. Somewhere you can see that under communists, the country was looted, and now it may have changed just because there had been 30 years. Go see if you've lost any ties to what's going on in this country, and then don't blame these people. I don't blame them. And I'm quite surprised they haven't beaten us out of here yet. So, hands in the hand, please. And I would also recommend that the Secretary of State get on very quickly. Or maybe she's supposed to get a club president to be here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u55	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Černochová - resigned to a point of fact, so, in that case, Mr Martin Novotný. And Mrs Pastuchová will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u56	Colleagues and colleagues, I am here to tell you the stories, certainly interesting, how good projects were done by the Olomouc Region in terms of capacity development for seniors or, as we planned in Olomouc in the framework of community social services planning, I will not call them to you. I think that every institution has as much dignity as it wants and which it forces itself to do. I don't know if you're feeling this, but now maybe it would be appropriate for the gentlemen to loosen their ties, maybe take off their jackets, put their feet on the table in this dignified courtroom because there's a free debate that I don't think is even close to the seminars we hold at the level of the Chamber of Deputies. We here, as Members of the institution, which has some autonomy and is endowed with some kind of authority, are having a free debate about what anyone thinks about social services. If you think it's useful in anything, if the line behind us is completely empty, then I don't think it's useful in anything. And I'm not going to propose a suspension because of my colleagues who have been logged in for a long time. But if we don't feel internally that we can't negotiate like this, then we can't expect the government to sit here. It's her fault, but we have to force that authority by insisting that someone be here. And if you want to have some fun, let's put our feet on the table.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u57	Thank you. I can understand that even though I couldn't hold the topic of the conversation. But since each of you spoke to the social services, I could not take anybody's word under the Rules of Procedure. But I'd also prefer that we proceed to a routine hearing. So much for a comment. There was no proposal that was positive, so we will continue with the factual remarks. Mrs Pastuchová, then Mrs Hnyková, Sklenák, Chalupa, Zavadil and Semelová. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u58	Thank you. I'd just respond to a colleague of Fiedler. We, ANO, are in a coalition, that's true. But unfortunately, the YES movement does not have the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. [[Unagreed feedback from the benches on the left.]] And I just want to say that last year, the Minister of Finance actually added to social services. He's added to social services. So the government-- it doesn't rule, I think it's coming along now and approving things like that if the secretary wanted to, he'd move this forward in three years.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u59	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová. Now, Mrs Hnyková. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u60	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you very, very much for all social services workers to get back to the matter. I understand that you want to comment on this, that the issue is very broad in social services. I understand all this, but please, on this point today, it's the salaries of social services employees. I would like very much, we have a unique opportunity to change this situation. I would ask you very much to be constructive and to go back to why this point was designed and come to a conclusion. I'm begging you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u61	Thank you, Mrs Hnyková. Mr Roman Sklenák's point of order is now in effect. And I'm also going to measure his time for a factual remark. A colleague of Chalupa will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u62	Thank you for the floor. So the 70 minutes we've been discussing this point have confirmed to me that I made the right decision when I didn't vote for this point yesterday. Because it really doesn't have any meaning. I think that this issue and such matters are at the meetings of the House bodies, which are committees. And if the majority recognizes that it would be good for the House to adopt a resolution on the matter, then a resolution should be tabled and the House should express whether or not it agrees. I don't think the discussions we're having here really make sense. And I must respond to repeated reservations as to whether or not Madam Secretary is here. It is so that the Minister also has a different program than sitting in these benches, so he doesn't just go to work at the Chamber of Deputies. She's been on a different schedule all day. And when the House decided to place this point, it reorganized the program so that at least part of that point, for half an hour, could be here to say her point of view. She did, and then she had to do other work. And I'll remind you that yesterday, she had a whole day reserved to defend the social housing law and the ODS over there and the TOP 09 over there took four hours of breaks and it was over. So please don't take the Minister in your mouth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u63	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now Mr Chalupa, also with a factual remark, will be prepared by Mr Zavadil. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u64	Thank you again for the floor. As one of the 200 Members, I certainly do not give up my responsibility for not discussing this, or I did not contribute to it. I deal in defense and security, mostly. And I will certainly be more intense about these things. I have this file at home about what I came across when we were dealing with our private problems. [[shows the thickness of the folder]] [[Reactions from the O.R.]] It's not a file on any of you, it's a file on caring for an immobile person. I'm not an expert on whether it's building regions or cities, I don't give a damn. The important thing is that we can take care of the infirm and the old. And I insist, for two years, I've been looking for a place, and the smallest digit is 28,000 plus 12,000 contributions from the state to the person in the fourth group. So that's a total of 40,000 for one. And if I want to put both old parents somewhere, it's $80,000! There are very few people in this country for that! That's not how we take care of old people.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u65	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr Zavadil, my colleague Semelová will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I have long hesitated if I should come to the microphone, because I am fully identified with what Mrs Hnyková said, so that we can move very quickly and vote this point. However, there were two things or two points that raised me a little bit, because they come out of ignorance or I just don't know, I can't name it. So I will turn to my colleague, Mrs Černochová, whom I respect, and to my colleague Kučera, whom I respect, but the ignorance is that it is as if you did not realize that when I return to the past, and I will now say the actual figures that you can examine, there has been a reduction in a number of professions, whether they were nurses, whether they were schoolchildren, whether they were firefighters, whether they were cops, there has been a reduction in the nominal value of 10 percent. [[Teachers?]] And it was because he wanted to maintain a certain state budget. I'm not gonna discuss it. At fair value, at fair value, this was between 14 and 15 % by 2013. And if anyone says nothing's been done, they either don't know or they don't understand. Because over the four years, these 14 percent of the reals roughly got to the level they were supposed to get to. That's all I wanted to say. Nothing more, nothing less. You can check these numbers. It's a shame Mirek Kalousek didn't sit here, who I was arguing with about all the possible numbers at the time, and it turned out the way it did. He would've confirmed it to you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u67	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mrs Marta Semelová, Mr Kořenek will also be prepared, we are still in factual remarks. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u68	Thank you. I have four notes. First of all, I understand the propositions to interrupt the moment Secretary Marksová isn't here. However, Prime Minister Sobotka and Vice Prime Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, who should hear what is happening in social services, should be here, in my opinion. I am really concerned that we should interrupt this resolution to the presence of Secretary Marksová that we would never really discuss it. And I think it makes sense. I think so, in contrast to the opinion expressed here by Mr Sklenák, who points out here that he did not vote for this point. If we manage to push through and declare the resolution that we have drawn up, it certainly has a purpose. Because there are concrete steps to be taken by the government, what to do to improve the situation. So for this reason, I would encourage that we do not propose interruptions so that we really discuss it all. As far as the committee is concerned. Yes, we discussed it x-times on the Social Committee. And Mr Sklenák was present and he knows very well that unfortunately we have not moved on, and that is why we wanted to include it in the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. And the last comment on Mr Gabal's resolution, on the proposal he wants to add. We don't have any problems with that, and we think that even if it's part of that number 5, it's possible to take that as another point to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u69	I thank my colleague, Marta Semelová, for keeping time on the point of fact. Now, Mr Kořenek, with a point of fact, will be prepared by Mrs Černochová. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u70	Thank you. I apologize for my schoolwork attitude, but I'd like to correct one inaccuracies here. The Minister is not the one giving money. The Ministry is an authority of central administration and there is a specific competence. The Minister is a politician who is leading, so he is an administrator. The government gives the money, the House approves the budget. Those competencies are clearly given. So I would very much warn here about the simplified view - the minister will give or won't. That's not his decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u71	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová, my colleague Michal Kučera will be ready. And we're still in factual notes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. A brief response by you to my colleague Zavadil. Yes, our government ruled at the time of the economic crisis. The economic crisis has ended and has been a boom since 2014. It's just to clarify the numbers that a colleague mentioned here. Mr. President of the MP's club, through you, Mr. Vice-President, the Sklenák guy is probably a big joker. Anyway, he's a joker, but most importantly, he's a very incompetent chairman of the ČSSD MP's club. Because if they accuse the opposition of taking a break here, the opposition took a break because the members of the government coalition didn't have a majority here! That's just for the record. And if the public looks at those benches behind me, where Secretary Marksová is sitting in the seat of a colleague of the TOP 09 Chalánková, so that it doesn't look like - or maybe just to make it ironic, then you really don't see yourself in the mouth, through the Vice-President. [[The government benches are empty, except for Mrs Chalánková and Minister Pelikán, who sits on the other side]] Blame us for taking a break after the House, thanks to the laziness and incompetence of your colleagues and your coalition, has become unbearable, but that is the pinnacle of perversion!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u73	Thank you for keeping time. Now, Mr Michal Kučera with a factual remark, Mrs Jana Lorencová will also be prepared with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u74	Thank you for your word. Only briefly to my foreman, Mr Zavadil. You see, my colleague, through Mr President, your government has done nothing but pour more money into that leaky social system. And the money leaked again. That's all this government has done. She didn't have the slightest effort to improve the system, fix it, make it more efficient, slim. I'm blaming this government, not whether she poured more or less money into the system. Because if you talk to social services workers, paradoxically, they'll tell you that maybe there's quite a lot of money in that system, they just don't always go where they're supposed to go. And I think Vice-President Černochová has said enough about my second speaker, President Sklenák. I also consider it an outrage to point out that the negotiations were suspended because of the ODS and the TOP 09 when the government coalition was unable to secure Members for the extended evening discussion of the House. She didn't even have enough government MPs here. That sounds really chucky to me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u75	I thank Mr Kučer. Now, Mrs Jana Lorencová, President Sklenák will prepare to make a point of fact. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u76	Mr President, colleagues, I think that we all know very well how we are here that this is not designed to be cared for. This care is a source of income. It's about the money. No one can see how money is being treated in those private homes because we don't have enough information about what goes on wages, what goes on other needs. [[Noise in the hall.]] I mean, we should be united in this regard. I was recently visited by a man who transported his mother from home to home. In the first two permanent smells... Please, I'll wait.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u77	I would ask a colleague and a colleague to remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u78	What he said to me... That's where the diapers are changed by the clock, not according to their needs. I find that scandalous and awful. I think we should pay close attention to this area. Those people, not only those on those beds, but those who go to them, those relatives, are afraid to protest. Because they're gonna leave, but their loved ones are gonna stay on that bed. Interesting thing is that in the third case - that was the third retirement home that he moved his mother to - the lady even started to walk and walk to this day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u79	Thank you, Mrs Lorencová. Now, Mr Roman Sklenák, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u80	Thank you. I'm sorry, because I wouldn't want to run away from the subject that we should be discussing, since the House has already included this point. But I just have to turn against the lies presented here by my colleague, Mr Černochová and Mr Chairman of the TOP 09 parliamentary club. The facts are clear. The Chamber of Deputies voted yesterday to act after 19 o'clock and after 21 o'clock. Members were prepared here, the petitioners, the rapporteur, etc. were prepared here. Of course, we have had the necessary number of Members and obstructions here, because clearly, at least proudly sign up for this, that you have decided not to allow the social housing law to be negotiated because you simply do not want it, so you have proceeded to obstructions. First she announced - she took a break from her colleague Černochová to so-called. a meeting of the ODS Club. And when we made it quite clear and declared that we were ready after that two-hour break at quarter to ten p.m. to meet here, which I guess we surprised colleagues because they thought we'd give up, a colleague of Kučera came and said that at that moment he would take another two hours. That's how it is. At least sign up for it. I mean, it's not fair for you guys to be obsessing like this and then talking about how the coalition isn't capable of pushing those points. And I'm warning you, I'm gonna come up with that point over and over again and we're gonna try. So everyone will be able to see if you will actually accept that point and we will vote on it or not. Let me remind you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u81	Thank you, Mr Sklenák. Two factual points - Mrs Černochová and Mr Kučera. My colleague, I'm gonna read the papers. Mr. Ženíšek apologizes from 16:30 to 19:00, and Minister Pelikán wants to apologize from 17:00 from attending the meeting. I don't know if he'll be able to if there's an advocacy hearing. And then from 15.15 Mr. Pavel Šrámek. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u82	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. The fact that a colleague of the Chairman of the ČSSD Members' Club does not remember what happened less than 24 hours ago is sad, and I think that all those who were sitting at the club chairmen's meeting were blushing when they heard the goddamn lie that the President of the CSSD Club has told. For viewers or those who have not given up yet, everything is documented in the records of this House. And President Sklenák forgot one very important thing, and that the club first proposed to marry him because it was discovered, and it was clearly published on the board and written that the House had lost its quorum. And it has lost its quorum precisely because colleague Sklenák is unable to co-ordinate a club chairman who can't even coordinate ministers - you see empty benches behind you - or his colleagues to sit here and vote on things. And if the Social Services Act is being discussed here, I hear Mr Bartošek, Vice-President of the KDU-ČSL, who is very strongly opposed to this law, I will read the opinion of the Ministry of Finance of Mr Babiš, and I will record his comments in the media that he is very strongly opposed to the Social Services Act, and something here for us, Minister Marksová, who sits here like a soldier in the field, says, so it is logical that I insist that those who have the same problem with this law are present here, as the Civil Democratic Party may have to tell us. They're ministers of this government, so we wanted to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u83	Madame, the time has ended for your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u84	- to present those who oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u85	Thank you. Mr. Michal Kučera now. That is the last point of fact so far. She's not checking in, excellent. In that case, we can continue the discussion. Mrs Helena Válková has applied, but she is absent, so we will continue with Mrs Chalánková's speech, Mr Vít Kaňkovský will prepare. Madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have waited a long time for my proper application for discussion, and I wanted to advise the Minister personally, perhaps even what he might actually do in his government engagement as Minister for Social Affairs. If I were the minister, I'd do something like this. I would base on the fact that the financing of social services in the form of subsidies for providers in 2006 amounted to CZK 13 billion. In 2016 or 2017, it went to so called. care allowance of CZK 22 billion, plus CZK 8 billion in the region in the form of subsidies. Here we see that the money is relatively large and the error is probably in the system. And we need to talk about what everything in that system should change so that needed care is provided, and especially to those with high needs of professional and nursing care. I would just like to respond briefly to Mr Gabal, I have not used the factual application for the debate since there was talk of planning. This planning is, of course, done, the planning takes place at regional level, it is called drawing up a medium-term regional plan, which is based on community plans of municipalities and is translated into the National Social Services Plan, depending on funding. So the medium-term plan really is being developed at regional level. Unfortunately, the problem with the entire financing of social services is also not entirely ideal functioning so called. Act on social services, which has been effective since 1 January 2007. This law has been prepared for a long 14 years and has been pointed out very honestly, but not everything in this law has succeeded so that all the necessary care is actually provided. The main focus of funding for social service providers was to be the contribution to care. We know that we have it in four categories - from category one to category four. It also differs according to whether they are children or adults. I would certainly be in favour of increasing the care allowance at the highest level, because for that money providing quality care for persons in the fourth degree of dependence on the care allowance is indeed almost impossible. However, I would like to point out that 75 per cent of the entire package of this care allowance, which is the dictatorial expenditure of the state budget and is now roughly CZK 22 billion, is 75 per cent of this amount, or from all of this financial package, goes outside the social service providers' system. I consider this to be a big problem, and that is why I wanted to advise the Minister - again not here - to address a comprehensive approach and a systemic change in the entire financing of social services, as is the basis of the Social Services Act, and perhaps to look at what could be changed in this law after all these years of its effectiveness. In addition to the care allowance, which is the administrative expenditure of the state budget, there is still non-mandatory non-claim expenditure. It is called a subsidy for social services providers. I myself brought the amendment here, it is about two years ago, which was to suspend or delay the efficiency of transferring this subsidy to providers from state level to regional level. My amendment to the Chamber of Deputies did not accept it, it did not approve it. I was very sorry because we could get at least two years, but it would probably take more, but at least two years for us to have fun, and that is what this government and this Minister should have done to talk about a systemic change in funding for the provision of social services. In addition to this subsidy, which is a non-profit item of the state budget and is around CZK 8 billion, I would like to point out that this subsidy has been transferred to the region in a relatively official manner, prepared in a relatively official manner, and although I have pointed out that this transfer might not have received notification from the European Commission, I have been told that it is so called. services of general economic interest and that this possibility has been consulted by the Office for the Protection of Competition. I am not fully aware of this, because the competition authority is only a consultative point and a definitive opinion should be given by the European Commission, and I believe that this transfer of such a high subsidy should be notified by the European Commission. Why would that be so? This should be the case, in particular, because the grant decisions are issued by the regions under separate authority, and these regions are, at the same time, a separate responsibility for setting up their own contribution organisations, i.e. they are undoubtedly in conflict of interest. Other social service providers also operate on the territory of the regions, with municipalities or non-profit organizations, primarily charity. I believe that there are no equal conditions for social service providers. Other options are contributions from the founder directly, directly from the budget of either regions or municipalities. Again, I must say that different communities treat their citizens differently. Some actually contribute to the founders, whether own or even to those, for example, from the level of the region, to citizens, or to those who are in other facilities, they contribute to their citizens, but they are also municipalities, unfortunately they are also rich cities that do not contribute to their citizens. Another source of funding for the provision of social services is called. payments from the user, which, of course, are mainly based on their pensions, where the condition is to leave 15 per cent to the allowance, but these payments from the user are limited by the upper limit, are therefore regulated. If they were not regulated, it would not be possible to include this social service provider in the subsidy system. And here I would see another possibility of further negotiations, because if we have a provider here, he has to go through the process of registering a social service provider and at the same time being included in the so-called social service provider. the subsidy procedure. All of this from the Social Services Act is tied up. There are initiatives from among those interested in building other networks of social service providers to separate these two components from each other, and it is clear that the provider would of course be obliged to pass through the registration process to meet standards and various personnel equipment and the like, but if he was not interested and eager to be included in the subsidy title, he would not simply be included in the application system and would of course have to obtain the money otherwise, for example by direct contacting the members of the family of the needed. So it has to do with the payment regulation and the law itself, where they are bound by registration and subsidy processes. [[16.10 hours]] The municipalities play a significant role in the whole system. This has also been said here by one of my previous speakers. As I said, municipalities behave very differently and their position may be based on the municipal law, where municipalities take care of the social needs of their citizens on the basis of local customs. And we, who may have worked at regional level, know that these local customs are often very different. So I would like to say the key message here on the microphone - firstly, I believe that the transfer of the subsidy title from state to state level to regional level should have an opinion from the European Commission. I think he should be notified. At the same time, I would like to apply the motion for a resolution and resolution No. 4: "The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to immediately start work on a systemic change in the financing of social services." Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u87	Thank you, Madame. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. We will continue the debate. Another duly signed up is Mr Kaňkovský. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u88	Mr Vice-President, honourable member of the Government, dear colleagues, I would like to respond to one more comment from my dear colleague, through you, Mr Vice-President Jana Pastuchová, who mentioned that the Minister of Finance had found the money for the salaries of social services workers. A colleague of Kořenek mentioned it here. The Minister of Finance is the administrator of the state budget. As far as I know, he's not the owner of the state budget bank accounts. Therefore, if last year, when money was being sought to raise pensions and actually twice, if I have the right information, the government's negotiations were interrupted because the Minister of Finance did not agree to it, but after he finally agreed to stand up in front of the cameras and heartily said that he found the money with the fact that, as if he was putting it out of Agrofert's account, I don't think this is completely correct. But I'm going to go back to the subject that we put on this afternoon, and I'm glad we've included it in spite of the various political frictions that we've heard here today. I think that the subject is so serious that it surpasses the need to push some more points forward and push them through in the legislative process. Anyone who moves around social services a little bit and is not deaf and blind must admit that there is a slightly higher level of crisis in personnel than in health care. That's what I was talking about this morning. An alarming situation was described here by the promoter of this point Jana Hnyková and other previous speakers. I believe that if we choose nihilism in this situation and if we continue to call ourselves 'but it will resolve itself', they will collapse in a number of segments of social services. I have spoken with a number of directors of various types of social services not only from my region, which is Vysočina, both with those whose founders are regions, and with those who establish cities and municipalities, and with those who establish nonprofit organizations. And there, as you know, the situation is by far the worst. There are not many directors in the field of social services who would call the current personnel situation a crisis. It is very sad when many of these directors say that, although they do not like, they may wish for a return to the economic crisis, because at that time, of course, only temporarily, a number of their former workers returned who, at the time of economic growth, went out to pursue professions that provided them with better financial and working conditions. Yes, that's how some directors think today. Yes, it's a little bit of a sense of desperation. Maybe a few examples from practice. The financial evaluation of an experienced caregiver is around CZK 13 to 14,000. I found several websites of personnel agencies today, and if we look at the job offers that are registered here in tens or hundreds, so while job offers in the social worker category offer a salary of between 13 and 15 thousand gross without any benefits, in other segments, whether it be trade, other types of services, administrative work, etc., the offered salary conditions are at least 3,000 higher and in many cases they start at CZK 20,000. To do this, various types of benefits, such as salary 13, meal vouchers, etc., must be added. And where does the salary of the incoming higher education social worker begin? Somewhere in 18,000 gross with a very small chance of salary growth. And I don't want to compare the complexity of the profession. I don't want to call one easy or easy. But one thing I can say responsibly, social work in direct care really in all respects is one of the most demanding, whether it be physical claims, stress factor, or risk of burnout syndrome. That is why I would like to ask you, fellow Members, to jointly support the proposed resolution tabled by my colleague Jana Hnyková. Indeed, this is a vital task that needs to be urgently addressed. And we can overshoot the political balloon here, who is responsible for what, but that does not really help the workers in social services and the functioning of social services. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u89	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mrs Hana Aulická will now appear. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also contribute to this debate, because I am not really sure whether the members of the government coalition understand the seriousness of the situation. Since 2015, the funding of social services has gone to the edge. Yes, the regions wanted this change and agreed to it. Unfortunately, at the same time, there was also immediate concern that arose during the negotiation of this law, due to the lack of funding from the state budget for this area and the need to cover the missing needed money from regions or other sources. After public pressure not only the Association of Social Services Providers and Unions, wages for social services workers increased by 4 percent, on average by 600 CZK gross. Unfortunately, this year the regions again did not receive money for this approved wage increase, so they again have to reach into their own. Of course, there are also requirements in hand to finance social services, which is also significantly reduced, and legitimate requirements from providers across the region are provided between 60 and 70 percent of the funds needed. Perhaps someone would dare to banish individual regional and municipal projects as another possible source of funding, but they are odd arguments. Individual projects last about three years and one day they will actually end and we will have to seal up an even bigger financial hole. An example of the Ústí Region. According to legitimate requirements, the region requested CZK 1.6 billion for this year. We got $900 million in cash. So how are we to successfully develop social services when finances keep going down? I must say that I am really glad that Mrs Hnyková has raised this issue on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, because this debate, as has already been said by my previous speakers, has mostly been conducted only on the floor of the Committee on Social Policy. If an employee takes 12 to 14 grand gross with all possible overtime allowances, and I think my colleagues have already explained enough the need for these workers, it is really necessary to do something about it right now. I therefore ask all of you to agree on a prepared resolution and, across the political spectrum, at least in this area, to prevent a collapse. And one more point, unfortunately, to the absent Mrs Marksová, through Mr President. If the effort, as the Minister said, was really great, at least the adoption of an annual adequate percentage increase in finance to workers' wages in social services would be proposed. There would not have to be arguments that the currently requested 20 per cent will not be able to bear the state budget. Unfortunately, for three years, I have not noticed such an effort from the Ministry of Labour workshop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u91	Thank you, too. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I do not see an application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for the final word. prosit, plaintiff. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u92	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the discussion, for your comments, for your support for social services workers. I would still return to the resolution you were given. You have now also received an extended resolution, which will be supplemented here by a colleague, Semelová, against what I first presented to you. I'd go back to point three. Yes, the Minister said that the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the Government had already taken steps to cancel the first and second tables and that the workers would be in the first table, i.e. Cleaners, cooks, janitors should have gone to table number three when there would have been an increase of 9 per cent. From the second pay table, where workers are placed in direct care and social workers, they should go to table number three, which is an increase of 5%. Oh, please, it's not gonna solve the current situation. In our resolution, which we have put to you here and which will be widespread, I want and I propose that workers from the second salary table, that is, those who take direct care of those workers by the bed, and social workers have gone to table number six, which is generally taken as a table for health workers. [[clients]] Please, if there's no such increase in these salaries, we're back to where we were. I would once again - through all the social services workers - and believe it, I have worked there for 27 years, I have worked by the bed, I know what their work contains, I have done it myself, and I know how difficult and difficult it is, how much work they have done since 2007, when the Social Services Act came into force, where we have all raised the quality of social services. The quality, if we want to preserve it, we must also start with the workers, evaluate them properly. It's been said here today. During this parliamentary term, it was just - I have to say it ugly - fucking with these workers. Four percent are really inadequate for the work they do. I would ask you once again, on behalf of all the workers, both in the residential and field services, very, very much to approve the increase and those employees have been duly evaluated. This is the last time we can actually say that we all appreciate their work. Thank you very much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u93	Thank you, too. We will therefore now proceed to the debate in detail. In the context of a detailed debate, the motion for a resolution should be heard so that we know what we are going to vote on. So I will ask to read the motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u94	I would like to thank you for the debate that has been said here. As far as the performers are concerned, the biggest discussion here was in the form of factual comments. For a while, I felt that we were not discussing the crisis situation in social services, but the crisis situation in the Chamber of Deputies. However, I thank you for the suggestions that have also been made here within the four proper or five proper discussions. I am referring specifically to what has also been added here by Mr Gabal. We have extended the resolution to five points. He was caught by representatives of all the clubs. We have extended it in agreement with some of the Members from other clubs to make it as consistent as possible. Then I'm counting on Mr Gabal's proposal to be made here, so we can extend that further, and we have no problem with that. I just wanted to add to the point that Mrs Hnyková was referring to, so I can confirm her words. The increase approved by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is indeed very inadequate here and will not attract new employees to social services. Let's remember that starting salaries that are at 11,000, by adding as approved by the Department of Labour and Social Affairs, will get employees at 12,000. This really does not attract us with new workers of social services. That is why there is such an emphasis on that point in the three resolutions. I would now read the motion for a resolution. Resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the 56th meeting of 26 April 2017. Chamber of Deputies under point Crisis in social services due to lack of staff and poor pay assessment 1. Instructs the Government of the Czech Republic to address the critical personnel situation in personnel services without delay; 2. Instructs the Government of the Czech Republic to discuss significant increases in salaries and wages for employees who are directly caring for clients and social workers; 3. This is the point we talked about - it obliges the Government of the Czech Republic to quickly adopt an amendment to the Government Decree amending the Government Decree No. 564/2006 Coll., on the salaries of employees in public services and administration, as amended, which will adjust, inter alia, the salaries of employees in social services; for staff stabilization it is necessary to delete the current Annex 1 and 2 of the Government Regulation. The staff member listed in Annex No 1 shall be placed in Annex No 3 and the staff member listed in Annex No 2 shall be included in Annex No 6; 4. Instructs the Government of the Czech Republic to allocate and secure sufficient funds from the state budget to increase the salaries of employees in social services; 5. instructs the Government of the Czech Republic to initiate a process of systemic change in the financing of social services. Now, let me read the sixth point, this is an extension of the House's resolution on the proposal of Mr Ivan Gabal. 6. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to process the development of demand for social services in the Czech Republic and to process adequate supply of services and their financing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u95	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mrs Válková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm considering, as a former member of the government, whether the term really "preserves" is the optimal one, if we should not replace it with the term "requests." In that case, the content would remain the same, only instead of "save the government" "calls the government." And thank you for the consultation given to me by an ex-government member on this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u97	Thank you. Now, then, the rapporteur, whether she will adopt this proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u98	Yes, I'm adopting the proposal, so there's gonna be the word "request" instead of "save" everywhere on those points. Otherwise, I propose a vote on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u99	On a single note, okay. Thank you. Mr Soukup's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u100	Thank you. I also wanted to ask for a vote on a case-by-case basis. It seems to me that Mr Gabal's proposal is really redundant because, as has been said here, and I have also said it, it has been said by Mrs Chalánková, those medium-term plans for the development of social services simply exist. There are community plans, etc. So in my opinion, it's pointless to create some other material.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u101	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for a detailed debate. I don't see anyone. In that case, I am ending the detailed debate. I am now asking again for the final words of the appellant or rapporteur. It's not like that. I will therefore ask the rapporteur to present the various motions for resolutions, and I will vote on the various proposals. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the front door to vote. I'm still registering a request for your check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. I will now ask you, rapporteur, to read the first motion for a resolution. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u102	First item in the resolution: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to address the critical personnel situation in social services without delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u103	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 476, registered 121 Members and Members, against no one. This motion for a resolution has been adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u104	Second point: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to discuss significant increases in salaries and wages for employees who are directly caring for clients and social workers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u105	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? The vote with order number 477, registered 122 Members, for proposal 120, against no one. This proposal was also adopted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u106	Third point: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to quickly adopt an amendment to the Government Decree amending the Government Decree No. 564/2006 Coll., on the salaries of employees in public services and administration, as amended, which will adjust, inter alia, the salaries of employees in social services. For staff stabilization it is necessary to delete the current Annex 1 and 2 of the Government Regulation. The staff member listed in Annex No 1 is requested to be included in Annex No 3 and the staff member listed in Annex No 2 is requested to be included in Annex No 6.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u107	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 478, registered 124 Members and Members, for proposal 98, against 1. This proposal has also been agreed with. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u108	Fourth point: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to allocate and secure sufficient funds from the state budget to increase the salaries of employees in social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u109	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 479, registered 124 Members and Members, for proposal 120, against no one. The proposal has also been approved. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u110	Fifth point: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to initiate a process of systemic change in the financing of social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u111	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this resolution, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 480, registered 122 Members, for proposal 95, against no one. The proposal has also been approved. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u112	The last, sixth point is an extension to the proposal of Mr Ivan Gabal, and it reads: The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government of the Czech Republic to process the development of demand for social services in the Czech Republic and to process adequate supply of services and their financing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-013-293.u113	Thank you. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 481, registered with 125 Members, for proposal 61, against 2. This proposal was rejected. I think we voted on all the motions for resolutions. Thank you, rapporteur. I note that we have approved the proposed resolutions under order numbers 1 to 5. I thank you for discussing this point and end this point. I'll read the apologies. Today, from 16 a.m. to 18 p.m., doktor Josef Novotný apologizes and, for work reasons, today from 16.15 to 19 p.m., Mrs Ing apologizes. Věra Kovářová. I'm opening up another point in today's meeting. That's what it is.
