ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /German press 959/6/ - returned by the Senate This item was dealt with on Tuesday, 27 June of this year, when we interrupted it during the speech by the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Body, Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová. Please let the Minister of Education Stanislav Štech and Senator Jiří Růžička take the seats at the rapporteur's table. I welcome the senator among us. Welcome, Senator. I recall that the Senate returned the bill with amendments and the resolution was delivered as House press 957/7. I am now asking the rapporteur if she wishes to speak. [[Yes.]] Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u2	Good evening, dear colleagues. Negotiations on a point on the Education Act -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u3	I am very sorry, my colleague, but for discussing the law on teaching workers, there is a lot of excitement in school as well. Thank you. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u4	- and I ended up explaining that a career order doesn't order teachers that everyone has to advance to their third career degree, but I said it's perfectly normal that everyone has to go through it after two years of practice - no, it's not a test, it's a test run to be recognized by independent teachers and entitled to a bonus. I'm done here. And if you don't mind, I won't keep you long, because I want to give the floor to colleagues who have already expressed themselves in this law, but I'm sure they have new knowledge, so they have something to say. I'll just remind you that on Tuesday, yesterday, there was a meeting with the petents of the petition against this career order. I actually performed there with the same performance as here, but I just asked a question that unfortunately I didn't get an answer, and the question was: 7. 4. 2017 This House discussed this law, agreed with it. It was agreed by 130 Members by 89 votes and forwarded to the Senate. What changed in that time that the petents suddenly started writing the petition in May after the Senate hearing? And I wanted to know that they would answer me if this group of petents was expressing itself between 1st and 2nd reading, if they were proposing exactly which of us MEPs proposed their amendments, what they were actually doing. She didn't get the answer. And I'm not here to discuss the individual points of the petition. I think that's what we took 7. 4. The Senate has only changed two proposals, which I know no one in this House wants to vote for, but we have to vote on the original proposal, and there I know that some Members from the coalition then, because since then also ran a political run, voted in favour. And if you don't mind, maybe somebody's gonna laugh at me, I'm a teacher, and I like graphic aids. This is what the coalition vote on this law looks like. [[It shows a large scheme of the vote in question.]] That means, I'm not blaming my colleagues at ODS, I'm not blaming my colleagues at TOP 09, but it's been discussed across the coalition parties, and this is how the vote was expressed, and I'm going to leave it here for you to take a look at. I think that enough has been said at the outset, and I would like to have other colleagues comment on this and make arguments that will be different from that of burdening the administration - which can be easily refuted that this is not true. That they won't say it's expensive - which can also be explained that it's not true. And I will be happy to have those who voted for this law put forward the relevant arguments, but really relevant arguments as to why they will not vote for it now. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u5	I thank the rapporteur. I'm opening the debate. In the debate, Mr. Senator Jiří Růžička will speak first. Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u6	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Mr Minister. Allow me, under the authority of the Senate, to say a few words about how we discussed the law on teaching workers in the Senate. So first of all, as the legislative process in the upper chamber took place. The draft law was discussed by the following committees: the Constitutional and Legal Committee, which, by its resolution, recommended the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the present law as referred to by the Chamber of Deputies. The Committee on Education, Science, Culture, Human Rights and Petitions was designated by the Guarantee Committee. He recommended the Senate to return the bill under discussion to the Chamber of Deputies with amendments. With regard to the bill in question, as referred to by the Chamber of Deputies, a very extensive discussion was held at the Senate meeting, in which an amendment was even tabled in a detailed debate, which proposed removing from law all points relating to the career order, but also a number of other amendments. The main objections, which were then based on the amendments tabled: firstly, that the order is administratively demanding, especially when moving between levels, it places time and personnel requirements on the members of the commissions that are not small. First, a career order does not bring the required quality improvement. The vast majority of teachers will be automatically placed in the second stage, in the third stage teachers will be able to be enrolled first in 2021. It will therefore only affect the career order in the nearest period of initial teachers. Another frequently repeated objection was the one, and this no longer concerns only the career order, that the amendment of the law on pedagogical workers does not solve the basic problems of the growing lack of quality, quotes or parentheses, but even teachers as such. It is not and cannot therefore be a career order by bringing young motivated teachers to schools. They're leaving, and the vision of a career order won't keep them in school. In addition, it was said that the State, through this law, is subject to additional powers, takes them to directors, transfers only other duties to the Director. And it has also been mentioned several times that the implementation is financially demanding, so I do not mean for teachers themselves, but financially demanding for the whole system, it is draining away other resources that are desperately lacking in education. [[17.10 hours]] Finally, amendments by Senator Václav Homolka, Senator Miloš Vystrčil, and Senator Zdeněk Papoušek were adopted from the amendments tabled. On the contrary, the amendments recommended by the Guarantee Committee on Education were not adopted. The outcome of the discussion was 31 May 2017 at the 7th meeting of the Senate resolution No. 165, to which the Senate first returns the draft law to the Chamber of Deputies in the text of the amendments adopted in the Annex and, secondly, instructs Senator Jiří Růžička to state the reasons for the resolution of the Senate at the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. For the sake of completeness, it would probably be right to add that the appellant's representative has expressed a negative opinion on the bill as amended by the Senate adopted amendments. The proposal to return the bill to the lower chamber with amendments was accepted by 42 votes in the Senate, against 19 senators. Now a few more comments on the amendments adopted by the Senate. They do not concern all career orders, some also relate to functional surcharges for individual functions. To point 10 of Senator Papoušek. With this amendment, the Senate proposes to increase the surcharge of the teacher for carrying out specialized activities from 1 000 to 2 000 to 3 000 crowns per month. The supplement is not defined by law, only by implementing regulation and its amount depends on how much funding the school principal has at his disposal, which we can all well imagine. To points 1 to 6, 8 to 11 of Senator Papoušek. The Senate considers it completely unnecessary to define five other new activities that are specialised. To the current, intended only by the implementing regulation, this is added: coordinator of the school's own evaluation, mentor of professional development, special pedagogue in the field of school speech, specialist in spatial orientation of the visually impaired, career advisor. In the case of these newly specialised activities, these are activities which are either engaged in other specialised activities or are selected entirely at random. At the same time, the proposal unites the reduction of direct pedagogical activity, which would apply newly to all specialised activities, which is quite substantial. On the seventh point, she pushed Senator Vystrčil. The amendment to the Education Worker Act proposes that further education in connection with the implementation of career development be provided by the Ministry through a legal person established by it. In the opinion of the Senate, however, it is necessary to ensure the professional development of teachers in a way other than through a legal person established by it. Last point. Senator Homolka proposed, and the amendment was accepted, concerning the bonus for the class teacher. It is not currently entitled, its amount depends only on the funds available to the school's principal. The amendment solves this problem and the surcharge for the sorting and its amount is stated directly in the text of the law. The Senate is of course of the opinion that the surcharge is very low and does not correspond to the difficulty of the scope of the class teachers' work. For this reason, the Senate proposes that the premium be increased from CZK 1,000 to CZK 1,500 a month to CZK 3,000 a month. At the same time, this increase would unite all the surcharges introduced by the amendment to one sum of CZK 3 000 per month. Madam Members, whether you accept the Senate version, whether you confirm the version of the Houses or not, I ask you to make a decision in favour of the quality of education in this state. And I don't think that the career order, as it is presented, is going to solve that. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u7	Thank you, Mr. Senator. Before I give the floor to the Minister with priority rights, I have three factual points. First, Mr Karel Rais, then Mrs Pastuchová, then Mr Brázdil. Please, Mr. Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u8	Hello. I'm the one who signed up for the debate, so I'll put it in more detail. But I would like to respond to the emotional question of my colleague Bohdalová: Why? During the time since the vote, we have gained more information. Mr. Senator Růžička suggested it here. It was a several-hour debate in the Senate, where ex-minister Valachová quite in detail said specific things that are really worth paying attention. Then I'll bring them up in the debate. At the very least, it is about financing a project to support it and where some of the amounts in the budget seem to be excessive. Automatically, about half a billion goes to a chosen institution. Another thing that stopped us was the lack of internal standards. Madam Secretary Valachová said eight directives, of having three done. And it was only Monday that the Minister told us that the fourth implementing directive was actually completed from four that day. In the meantime, the increased activity of teachers, the leaders of professional associations, both the directors of grammar schools and, for example, the logos - we have recently received letters. Some of us discussed it personally, and we found out that they were right. There were a number of statements coming in. We went through some schools, and there were negative reactions. We have a group of teachers around us who are certainly objective and speak with some respect. Maybe it was a question, we were also discussing that with the Minister, a matter of little information, because there was an exchange... [[A reminder from the diaper. Time!]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'll tell you later, I'll deliver.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u9	Please. Mrs Pastuchová and her two minutes, followed by Mr Brázdil and Mr Kořenek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u10	Thank you. I am also enrolled in the debate, but I think that everyone here should be measured by the same metro. So I am asking you, Mr President, to call on your colleague to take away the banner, because there have been laws here, when someone has also brought a banner and has been called upon. [[The voting scheme left behind by Mrs Bohdal]] And as a paramedic, I think it's dangerous, too, because someone might trip and get hurt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u11	I'm sorry, I don't see the banner from my point of view. I ask my colleague to prevent the accident and carry the banner away. Thank you. Mr Brázdil and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I come before you with a motion for a procedural vote - to interrupt this item by 19 October. Until October 19th.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u13	By 19. 10. Yes? [[Yes.]] Okay. This is a procedural proposal which I will put to the vote, as the Rules of Procedure command, without being called upon. I'm calling our colleagues, I'm signing you all out, and I'm asking you to sign up with your voting cards. [[Sounds like a gong summoning Members to the ballroom.]] We will vote on Mr Brázdil's procedural proposal, which proposed to suspend this item by 19. 10th of this year. That's all right, it's less than 120 days, as the Rules of Procedure say. [[17.20 hours]] I therefore initiate the vote on Mr Brázdil's procedural proposal. Who is in favour of interrupting this point by 19. 10th, let him lift his hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a vote 208, 93 Members and Members registered, for 27, against 37. The motion was not accepted. Another point in fact, Mr Kořenek, after which Mrs Nytrová. All factual points. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u14	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I just want to respond to my colleague Rais, whom I greatly appreciate, but the project is focused on methodological support in the region, and basically, I think that it will be implemented in any case and it needs to be implemented because it is aimed at the quality of education. Then we can keep talking about it. As far as the sub-legal standards are concerned, all of us who were there - and we were there - know that there are four of them, and it is logical that they are there, we will find them in the House system. The problem is that no sub-legal standard can be completed unless the law is passed, because we know that the creativity of the Chamber of Deputies knows no limits. As far as associations are concerned, I have to assume that associations are properly registered, represent certain groups of residents, and certainly participate in discussions in all possible forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u15	Thank you, honourable Member. Those were all factual points. Now with priority rights, the Minister. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, really briefly. I would just like to remind you, because I spoke 14 days ago to the margo of what Senator Růžička said about the second part, about the amendments. There theorem that not all relate to the career order is not accurate. In fact, he is very indirectly concerned with the career order only one, namely, he Vystrčil out the MP, and it is actually a bit confusing, because the National Institute of Further Education is not the one who would take everything, to say so, under himself and somehow dominantly, to resolve education monopolistically. He has only in this sense that the centres, Cabinets in the regions should be conquered, so that schools can get closer to it and that their numbers and functioning are set up to restore in the future what we have killed here in the past years or not enough to finish, and these are actually methodological cabinets, methodological centers, teaching centers, etc. What's actually desperately missing today. The point is to give it only quality content. So it was the only thing that was there. Otherwise, there's only one point in point. It wasn't about accepting some senseless new specialization. It should be noted that I, Mr Rais - I do not know if he is here - also received a letter from the Association of School Logos: thank you for fighting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u17	Minister, please address the Members through me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u18	I'm sorry, I'm inexperienced, so I'm sorry. All I'm saying is that at least two of these positions exist today, and they would have to be canceled. On the contrary, people who had completed their education, who had completed a hundred-hour, two hundred-, two-and-a-half-hour course, would have had to leave these positions. There are about three new ones that have been criticized. And I agree. By the way, saying that career advisors, or career advisors, are stupid, is quite brave today in a situation where we deal with the connection of education to the labour market and the like. So I would just like to clarify the things that have been said here from the Senate. What Senator Růžička said before, we can comment on that later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u19	That was the Minister. Now, in the general debate, Mrs Ivana Dobešová has duly signed up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u20	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. I have two tasks I'd like to do here at the moment. One of them is the one to whom I was commissioned by the Committee on Petitions, who met on July 11 at his 41st meeting, and one of the points he discussed was the petition for not accepting the amendment to Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers, with a career system of teachers, so called. Career order. At this meeting, I was assigned to inform the House that this petition, signed by a total of 21 609 petents, was duly discussed at this 41st meeting and the aim of this petition was to draw attention to some of the irregularities that the petents believe to be bringing about the order of career. Let me read you six points that this petition has just focused on. Firstly, the form of a career system of teachers is contrary to the objective set out in the Government's programming declaration. The career system will cover only 5% of teachers until 2022 and will not motivate most teachers to improve teaching. Teachers and, above all, school heads will be overwhelmed by a new unnecessary administration, which will take away the time they could devote to preparing for better teaching or school management. The career system will discriminate against most teachers. Fifth, there will be a complicated bureaucratic moloch whose operation swallows up much of the funds that could go directly to schools. And sixthly, most implementing legislation is still missing, so other concrete impacts of the amendment cannot be evaluated. I have therefore fulfilled the task that I received at the 41st meeting of the Committee on Petitions, and now allow me to speak with my contribution to the career order. Mrs Vlasta Bohdalová called on colleagues who voted in third reading to approve this amendment to justify their change of heart over time. I would like to begin by saying that changing your mind is completely legitimate if you have new information that you did not have before. And staying in position, if you have new information, it's just a fool doing it. Let me state my reasons for changing my mind. First of all, I would like to start by saying that I drew attention to the shortcomings of this amendment to the law on pedagogical workers and I tried to explain to my colleagues what the difficulties of this amendment are. I myself called her a new facade on the old house without changing the quality of the interior. This career order, and it has already been said here, has three degrees. The first stage will cover a very small part of the newcomers and their teachers, and most of us teachers will automatically be tilted to the second stage without extras, because we all have received extras. And it comes to the most important, third degree. We'll get close to him in four years at the earliest. At this point, I think the vision of a three thousand bonus, or five, is very tempting and really motivating at the limit of teachers' salaries. But in four years it could be completely different. The value of this amount may change. So if I move this part away and get to the specialization professions and specialization fees, I also pointed out to the club before the vote that this is no addition to teachers, but that it is also for the work of evaluating their work. And there's no need for this to be done by law. On the contrary, the situation is much more complicated by law. If we do this by regulation of the government, as has been done so far, we have a chance at any time to react flexibly to financial changes and maybe increase the extras. If this is enshrined in the law, we must open the law every time, any slightest change in the amount of surcharges. I find this process far more complex. [[17.30 hours]] But now let's go back to the causes that eventually changed my mind about this law completely. It's basically four basic things. One of them is the petition of the educators, which was signed at the end of June, which occurred before the examination of the school law in the Senate and gained its intensity just before the debate of the Senate's return here in the House. I'm not talking about the content of the petition. It doesn't matter. Because I believe that teachers signed in good faith what they had possible, available from the website for information, and what caused some doubt in them. What led me, on the contrary, to think again about the order of careers is that the Ministry assured us all before approval that all the associations, all the expert sections and the public, that they had been discussed, that this law was approved and supported. And that's the fundamental contradiction. There were 21,000 teachers who suddenly signed, and perhaps - because the Ministry responded flexibly and said that it was nonsense, the truths out of context, some colleagues even accused the petitioners of being lies, gross lies - that is more proof that the professional public was not well informed and that not all of them were discussed. So I myself began to communicate very quickly with the directors in the Central Bohemia Region. And from the thousands of e-mails I had with them based on correspondence, I found a very quick, quick answer. 486 answers came in, 480 of them negative. So they didn't want any of the versions, 10 of the answers asked for the MP version and 6 of the Senate version. That's a certain voice, too. The voice of the people who elected me to represent them in the Chamber of Deputies. And that's why I got off here again, and I want to convince you that a career order isn't what the Ministry says it is. And the other reason? The other reason was even worse. 24. 6. The Minister published a post on his Facebook page and I would like to read it: "Petition of the so-called Pedagogical Chamber against the Order of Careers. [[Twenty thousand against]] So many illiterate people among teachers? From the very beginning, a fake. A chamber that isn't and can't be a chamber? A false claim in every sentence of the petition? I can't believe it." Well, guys, I can't believe it either. This is what I would expect from a minister who works intensively for four years, convinces the public, and at a time when he decided to petition, he writes a statement like this, not a minister who's been appointed to his office for a few hours. Personally, because I really feel more like a teacher than an MP, it says that teachers are probably illiterate and need to do something about it, they need to be taught. What is far more alarming for me, however, is that the Minister does not even know that the Pedagogical Chamber did not submit a petition, that it was submitted by a petition committee composed of eleven members, who made proper use of his right in democracy to petition and point out that something is in contradiction. And that's much more alarming. Because it seems to me that even the Minister is illiterate. Well, I have to say, I really appreciate the teachers, and much more respect for those who have finally said enough. After 12 years of constant change, constant attempts to improve the school system have said enough. You know, teachers are very conservative. I've been in education for 33 years, and I know that every time a teacher bends his back, the clerk gets what he wants. But he probably ran over the cup already. And I appreciate the teachers. And I have to say, I'd rather be an illiterate teacher than an arrogant minister. That, Minister, is what I stand for. In the reactions that the directors sent me at the end of the school year, there was not only a simple, brief answer, as I would expect, but there were many reasons and reasons why teachers or directors did not want this great career order, which drives them with a stick to paradise. And so allow me, Minister, to read you one letter with the consent of the author: "You know, I'm only in charge since September and 31. 7. I am resigning from this function. Last year, I was one of those crazy people looking forward to Monday, 'cause they're going back to work. I was a class teacher, and I loved my job. One single year was enough for my position on Czech education to turn 180 degrees. I've had a fight with inclusion and a huge administration that ties to it. At the beginning of the school year we had seven children with special educational needs in our small school, at the end of the year we showed thirty children. We've been dealing with eating according to the order of treats. We have put up signs with a smoking ban, including an additional table on electronic cigarettes, and we have issued an appropriate internal regulation. Several times this year, with Preventist, we added a minimum preventive programme and a preventive strategy to keep both documents up to date. And that the changes in prevention in one year were. We were discussing the revision of the facility in order to comply with the decrees, we were looking for new applications to secondary schools, because some secondary schools were scaring our pupils that if they didn't have applications under the new decree, they wouldn't be able to come to the entrance exams. We have shown, tested and implemented legislative changes to the school's operation. My colleagues were constantly signing something, filling it out, showing it. And on top of all that, by the way, they were also teaching. And I'm already at the point where I'm determined to go back to where my work pleases me. Where I'm fine. From the principal's office to the children's classroom. I am not well at the idea that there will be a further change in the school law, the law on teaching workers, the decree on primary schools and the regulation of direct and indirect pedagogical activities since September. In one interview, the ex-minister said that she would reduce the administrative burden of schools and cancel two for each new paper. One day she said that, the next day, I learned that the amendment to the School Act contained compulsory swimming lessons, and that is connected with transport subsidies. The subsidy is a great thing, but nine pages of paperwork, which are related to this, is still a bit much. Especially when one expects that, according to Mrs Valachová, 18 papers will be taken somewhere. And that's how we can continue when we get to the career order. I'm glad that I won't be the one to tell my excellent colleagues at our school that they need to process and then evaluate the pedagogical development plan. That new teachers who are in practice for the first year and work perfectly with the help of all the colleagues who present the teachers in the twelfth grade will fail by 11th and in a year they will have to defend their return to the normal teachers before the committee for which the school takes money God knows where. I am glad that I will not be the one to tell them that all their education beyond their responsibilities has been unnecessary, and that if they want to be recognised in the certification procedure, they must comment carefully on it. That teachers with many years of experience, with enormous pedagogical experience, will have to be able to get a lousy $3,000 salary in a few years, pass a gradual annual certification procedure, and will have to defend themselves before a commission composed of fast-trained members. At the same time, they will have to process a multi-page portfolio in which they will again defend and explain that they want to do their job correctly. Don't let anyone tell me there's not gonna be a stack of paper in the principal's office at least a foot. Not to mention the fact that the money that should be received by the teachers mentioned above will be spent on training new trainers and supporting the emergence of new educational organisations. [[17.40 hours]] Because the career rules refer to several implementing regulations, which I have not been able to trace even one - that they are not yet in the world? - it will probably be very difficult to implement a career order into the running of a school without frequent and difficult information tracking. And what we're gonna talk about, sometimes it's not easy to track down information about quick-running events. For example, in April, no one from the school advisory facility or from the regional authority or other institutions was able to answer the inclusion question of what the designation of "the method of acquisition of other aids in the recommendations of the school advisory facility" meant. In my teaching career, I have known many teachers and teachers. They are mostly people who are already, by their very nature, very humble, kind, and mostly non-conflict. Otherwise, they would not work in education, where they do not have a defense, where they do not have a minimum of rights, but a maximum of obligations. These people aren't gonna rebel against the charge the desk officials are loading on them. These people will clench their teeth, they will continue to invent games and activities to entertain their children in their classes, and in the evenings, they will declare, fill out, defend, comment, write down what is required of them. Because I know what these people are, I don't want to be a part of this monstrosity. I'm sorry, I know that word has a strong effect. And I don't want to have to defend anything in front of them that I don't believe in myself, that I don't support and that I absolutely disagree with. I am not saying that Czech education does not need changes. On the contrary. He needs them like salt. But it has to be thought-out, tested, verified. I don't have a person in my neighborhood who would be asked what they think of the changes going on. What Mrs Exministra claims is that all members of committees, associations, associations, advisory bodies, etc. She's been approved and recommended, all she's done is flattery and softness. It would be enough to go to two to three schools in a small town to read comments, discussions, and the Minister's eyes would see what Czech teachers think. I don't know if I've explained my attitude to the career order enough. But I think I have expressed a distaste that results from all the chaotic and unthinkable changes. I wish the Czech schools to teach teachers to have time and quiet to teach them so that it will entertain them themselves, because when they work with teachers, their pupils also like to go to school, and that is the point. The teacher is, believe me or not, a self-thinking person knows he has to continue to educate himself in his field and doesn't need to report on it. With greetings and wishes that quality Czech education should not be suffocated under a mountain of paper." That's the voice of one single person in education. And there were more of these letters. I believe that my colleagues in social democracy have many other letters that praise their work. Unfortunately, I don't have letters like that. I said the second reason, and that's contempt for the teacher as a condition that they took the liberty of raising their finger and pointing out that they've had enough of the administration. It was the teacher's voice or the elementary school principal's voice. Minister, I would also like to inform you about the work of the High School Director. When school education programs began and all schools had to fight them, teachers were quickly trained, and a school education program was created in elementary schools, so there were many in secondary vocational schools. Specifically, at my school, 15. Each of these training programmes shall have at least 300 pages. You think we could do so many educational programs without working so-called. Methodical cabinet? I don't think so. Well, I'm glad you agree with me. So there's no need to come up with the discovery of America that's already been discovered. These things work in schools. The third reason that led me to definitely decide not to support either version was our last coalition meeting on Monday night. I received surprising answers to specific questions from the career order, such as: When drawing up two-year development plans, if it occurs in good faith that I agree with the teacher on his career development, which is linked to certain funds, and the year after that will not have these funds, what will be the impact given whether the teacher will be entitled to enforce these courses? And vice versa. What happens when, in good faith, I agree with a teacher who, in the course of fulfilling his development plan, discovers that he has gone the wrong way and thinks that he will simply not do it? Do I have the right to release him because he's not working on his career? The answer was: And why, that is not necessary, for nothing is happening. Well, isn't there anything wrong? And we make two-year paper plans for this and spend time on it? And we're thinking we're going to a bright tomorrow? I'm surprised. I have 75 teachers. That's what I'm gonna spend a lot of time on tossing it in the trash! That'll be great! I started with school education programs, and yesterday I was thinking about how many changes were made only in the admission process in 17 years of my principalship. So first we had two applications. Within them - the first was mandatory. When the pupil was not admitted to it, the application was only in force. That was canceled. There were three equal applications. Biggest mess. No one knew who he was actually seeing. And so we cooked goulash about how many first years we'd have, but we didn't know the ingredients. It seemed to be out of order, so we canceled. We only had one application. We came across that the pupil, although he began to choose his future career more carefully because he had one chance, had only one chance. So we changed it. We've turned it into two equivalent applications. So, once again, we all accept pupils in good faith, and we don't know how many we accept. And last year, we made it even better with the entrance exams. You see, so many changes, and it's just an admission of one pupil to the first year. And the student has no idea. He doesn't know how much work is involved. I would like to mention some more facts that prevent me from supporting one of the versions of the Order of Care here in the House. The effectiveness of certain provisions is on the first of September. Since both teachers and directors are on a well-deserved vacation, I think it will make it very difficult for them to start their next school year. They're set up, maybe they'll have to look for other teachers, and we're putting them in a very stressful situation. I have warned the Minister several times that the career rules apply only to teachers who have a contract of employment. There are a number of teachers at higher vocational schools and secondary vocational schools who teach on work agreements. Believe me, those pupils don't really care if they're taught by a teacher with a work contract or an agreement to carry out a job, and they all want to have high-quality teachers. So why don't we let those who don't have a job contract grow qualitatively or professionally? We're already starting to diversify among the teachers: you, you're perspective, you have a job contract for me, I'm sending you to training, and you're just on a job deal, so you don't have to. And what will happen to teachers in higher vocational schools? Does he meet the criteria of the third degree when he doesn't even have to have pedagogical education to perform his duties? And do we even know the criteria of the third degree that will be waiting for us? We don't know. Government regulations and implementing decrees only refer to the teacher's standard in the second degree. The third stage will be formed in a four-year period on the march. I imagine the teacher will build a plan to develop his professional growth to find out in two years that he has gone the wrong way, because the standard has been set a little differently. I find that very unsettling with teachers, too. [[17.50 hours]] My colleague here has already mentioned the position of the Association of Logopers. This is also a moment that tells me that the law has not been dragged into the finals if they - if they write a letter in which they point out that school logoped interferes with the work of clinical speech by its unprofessionality and can even contribute to disrupting the education and education of the child. You don't have to agree with me. You can tell me I'm wrong. However, I must say that these are quite serious things that lead me to change my mind. One more thing I understand - that the Ministry has no idea what is going on in schools in an effort to improve and improve Czech education, and therefore, Minister, I would like to call on you through the President: Come to my office in September. Let's meet at 7:00 in the morning at the farmhouse and continue running the school to see what the reality of the director's life is if you have the courage. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement, I would like to express our position. After a long discussion, we decided not to support either the parliamentary version or the Senate version, which is being presented to Parliament at the moment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u21	Thank you, Madame. Your performance raised several factual points. First of all, the electronically registered President Kučera with the facts, then Mrs Havlová, then Mr Foldyna, then Mrs Bohdalová. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u22	Thank you for the floor. I have listened with interest to the chat here, Madame. Of course, I am very much in agreement on this, I am just surprised that we are only talking about this now at the time when the Senate return is being discussed, because this was the speech that was supposed to be heard here in the first reading of this law, and perhaps we could save ourselves a lot of peripetia in this law. Of course, I would really like to call for a bit of action here, because I think everyone is already determined how they will vote. These school stories, they're touching, of course, but I think we all know how to vote. So maybe it's coming from the wrong side, but we should do it here in a more substantive way, and this law, I believe, should be rejected as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with Mrs Havlová's point of fact. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm very brief. I listened with enthusiasm to my previous speaker, Mrs Dobešová, and it actually caused me to sign up with tech. The $3,000 the Senate proposes for class teachers - I would like that for all teachers, but I'm also standing here as a representative, and let's all be aware that the founder's school is a community. And no one told us where the $3,000 were going to come for the cantors. And if I take the fact that we only have 12 classes in the village and we would give three thousand to each of those teachers, I want to see where that community would take about five hundred thousand a year to add to the class teachers. That is why I absolutely cannot agree with the Senate proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u25	Thank you. Now from the point of view, Mr Foldyna, then Mrs Bohdalová, then Mr Blažek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u26	Mr President, thank you for the floor. You know, ladies and gentlemen, I'm a ship's mechanic, I'm not an educator, so I just went to school. I have five kids, so I have school experience by having my kids go to school, too. I have a teacher's wife, so I know about their problems. My friends, colleagues, let me tell you something. Don't be mad at me when I say it so explicitly. For 27 years, I've seen our Czech education rate here. I'm sorry I'm using a word that doesn't fit in the House at all. But what we've been doing here over the past 27 years in education, we can slap each other on the shoulder as we want, as good as it all is, but you know what the reality of what graduations are, what the fields are, how much it costs us and what it is. And we got somewhere at this point, that we are here to pass some law, and I went to the uneduced and asked the union: Please tell me whether you want it or not, because you represent the teachers. I was also told in the regional union: Mr. Ambassador, it is imperfect, but please accept this, it is a move forward. Please, we're discussing something here, and I understand it's before the election. We passed the law here with 33 votes of the company, or the association, yes, or the movement, I'm sorry, I didn't mean to say it, I got a little upset. Let's do something - if you think that this discussion will lead to something, and you know that nothing is going to happen, that we're just going to scream and talk. Let's vote on these things, let's move on! I mean, the public's gotta have an outlaw out of us! The professional public in education, those of us, please, are having a stroke, those teachers. We always said, "It's not the bank that comes first, it's the school!" But it's not true. [[Attention on time: your two minutes, Mr. Ambassador.]] So thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u27	Thank you. As another Mrs Bohdalová. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u28	I'm just making a little point. I do not know how a member of the petition committee or member of the petition committee can declare that the content of the petition is not important. I say that the content of every petition is important. And then the experiments - 12 years in school. It was clearly said in the school committee when we discussed with Minister Valachová, so it was said that direct money had to be provided until education was increased. That's what happened this year, I don't know what it's gonna be like next year. Then it was said that in order for the money to be spent effectively, reform of regional education funding had to be adopted. She's accepted. And the conclusion that it should be a career order, that this will be the three basic standards that will stop the twelve years of change, will end, and that then we will focus directly on the individual things. And the second thing I'd like to say here. You know, that Czech education cannot be judged by one high school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u29	Thank you, Madame. Now, Mr Blažek, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u30	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up with my colleague Kučera, who said we could save ourselves a variety of peripherals. Now I'm going to speak to the YES movement and Mr. Faltýnek, who is here at this moment. I would just remind you how many times Mr. Faltýnek, and I think wrong, the argument is incorrect, he calculated how much it costs an hour and the day of the House's meeting and the various institutions. Well, I don't like the argument, I think it's wrong. But I'm turning to you in a false way now that you're having so much fun with the numbers in the YES movement, counting how many hours of the Senate, the Houses, the governments, the various other institutions it's costing you, in the end, just because the elections are coming -- the other arguments are quite representative -- you suddenly conclude that maybe the voices in education could move somewhere else, so for this reason -- it's legitimate, but it's the only reason -- you're turning your mind. And what's the point of view? An opinion can be reversed if there is one. You didn't have one in the original hearing, you didn't show up, you made a coalition machine, and now you come up with what was x-fold said here, but other political parties. So just this for your progress. And I beg you, according to the palate tables, figure out how much it cost this state, even though I don't recognize this argument myself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. This concludes a block of factual remarks, and it is with Mr Tomio Okamura's contribution that I am giving the floor to. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, in the context of the Law on the Career Regulations, I would first of all invite the Minister of Education to resign immediately. And if he refuses to do so, I call on the Prime Minister to call off the Minister. In the few hours he's been in office, he's shown maximum inability to communicate with teachers and stabilize his resort. [[18.00 hours]] During a short period of time, 20,500 teachers from 1 071 schools signed a petition against today's law. It's a very strong signal that something's wrong. Minister Štech nominated for the government under the ČSSD instead of discussing with university-educated teachers about the form of a law that personally affects them, on his Facebook profile he insulted the general teacher. I quote: "Petice so called. Pedagogical chambers against a career order, 20,000 people opposed so many textual illiterate people among teachers? From the very beginning, a fake. Chamber. What is not and cannot be a chamber, a false claim in every sentence of petition. I can't believe it." End of the quote of Minister Štech nominated for the government under the ČSSD. The Minister's first and basic error is that the petition is organised by the Pedagogical Chamber. The petition is organised by the petition committee, whose members are listed in the text of the petition, and it is primarily the ordinary teachers and directors of various schools. As citizens of the Czech Republic, they have only exercised their constitutional right guaranteed by the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms and the Law on Petition Law. As a text illiterate, Minister Štech himself was nominated for the ČSSD. The second thing is that insults instead of arguments are really used by a truly illiterate person. And such an intellectually disqualified person should never lead any ministry. Let alone the Ministry of Education. If anyone objects that we should not exaggerate extraordinary excesses, it must be said that Minister Štech's hatred of teachers is continuous and is not new. As Deputy Minister Valachová, Mr Štech called teachers - quote - scum. Ladies and gentlemen, please let us think, can the Department of Education be run by a man who considers teachers illiterates and scumbags? Of course, we support not only the protest of teachers against the amendment of the law, which is clearly just a large tunnel for public money for related organizations and party friends of friends and which will bring virtually nothing to teachers, and at the same time we support the call of teachers for the Minister of Education to take responsibility for his remarks and resign. A moment ago, although it's a teacher's wish, the minister and his colleague laughed at it here at the table. They laughed when I said what the teachers wanted in the petition. You laughed at them again. Because I'm the only one on TV who's taken over, so I'm just saying here how you're still acting here. Minister Štech for ČSSD again. Furthermore, this person was not and is unable to gain the trust of his department and cooperate responsibly with him. The former Minister assured that the proposal had broad support for the pedagogical public. It's not like that. Either she wasn't informed or she was knowingly lying. It's the other way around. As we see from the petition, a significant part of the pedagogical public is appalled by the resulting form of so-called. A career order. And now the Minister is talking right here at the table, and he's not watching at all. Basically, he doesn't care. I'm just proving it here because I want people to know how this approach is continuing. So, as we see from the petition, a significant part of the pedagogical public is appalled by the resulting form of so-called. A career order. We know, of course, about the document signed by Mr. Zajíček, who is trying to make a voice for the pedagogical public and calls on the legislator to support the Ministry's proposals. In this document, all that is missing is the designation of the critics of the vigilante and the losers according to the traditions of totalitarian propaganda. Today, the order of careers is only a euro project for the National Institute of Further Education. It's another public money tunnel. Although the amendment to the Act has not yet been approved, the directly managed organization of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports National Institute for Further Education, that is the name of the organization, received an amount of 508 million from the Ministry of Education in April 2017 as part of the Operational Programme Research, Development and Education. CZK for a project called Implementation of the Career System of Teachers. The administration of the project will swallow most of the funds. For example, only to promote the career system is 41 miles reserved. Crowns. This project already has a number of employees, and I stress again, despite the fact that the amendment has not yet been approved. These employees are entitled to a gross monthly plate of CZK 72,800. That's the salary of the project manager. Furthermore, the salaries are CZK 51,000, which has ten team managers of this project. Furthermore, CZK 30,000 to CZK 56,000 a month have additional managerial, administrative and professional positions in the project. Given that when we compare what Minister Štech is doing here for ČSSD and its predecessor also for ČSSD, so since the starting pay rate of the primary school teacher and secondary school teacher is CZK 22,140 and the kindergarten teacher is only CZK 17,260 per month, it is a mockery to the rank teachers. And we in our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, do not agree with this policy that you are demonstrating. The scope of this project and its financial costs are not entirely consistent with the fact that only five percent of teachers in a given year will be covered by the career system over the next five years. Three thousand starting teachers and three thousand reporting teachers who receive a bonus of CZK 3,000 per month, which is only 140 million in total. In addition to the current state of the crown every year. I would expect, and we in our SPD movement, that teacher education is an area in which the relationship between pedagogical practice and teaching faculties of universities can be the basis. It won't be like that. The proposal and actually the project will enable the broad involvement of various non-profit organisations in education, and I am not afraid to say, in the ideological processing of teachers. What, in particular, does the career order bring to teachers? Some teachers will have the hope that in seven years they will improve by 3,000 crowns. The proposal literally makes fools of school directors who have completed functional education, and now the law is passing in relation to the accreditation level. Of course the directors will be involved, but otherwise. They are undoubtedly expected to increase the administration and organization of substitute for educated colleagues. I'm worried that schools don't start reminding the hospital on the outskirts of town. The best teachers will sub and active Cvach will be educated. In short, this will bring nothing to teachers, schools, and pupils. Just unnecessary work and administration. There's no educational talent that's gonna bring this to school. It's actually about getting money out of education. Your vote must be manipulated to support the drawing of money. Your vote, ladies and gentlemen, is, of course, necessary to manipulate to support the use of the money of these supereuro-projects without benefit. This is the aim of this novel. Of course, we in the SPD will not be manipulated. Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is appropriate for me to say how our movement of freedom and direct democracy, the SPD, imagines concrete steps to improve the state of our education. First of all, clear requirements for pupil performance need to be returned to primary and secondary school work. The so-called concept of inclusion is deadly nonsense, and our SPD movement voted against this concept. At the end of primary school, comparative tests need to assess its prerequisites for further education at different types of secondary schools. We in the SPD want to maintain the concept of a common graduation, which must be demanding and must return lost credit to this test. Furthermore, in our opinion, it is necessary to support cooperation between schools and teaching faculties in the preparation of new teachers and in the further education of pedagogical staff. The tool here can be a return to the practice of teachers-metodics in schools, who would work directly in schools and would combine knowledge of practice and teaching faculties. Let's stop pulling money out of schools. Instead of inefficient projects, let's give them to teachers' wages. It is real to get teachers' wages to 130 percent of the average wage. All he wants to do is manage it at the Ministry of Education for the sake of teachers. Finally, let me say that neither I nor we for the SPD, although there are really very few of us and a few, we will not support either the House or the Senate version. This bill must be rejected.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u33	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Kořenek, then the Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u34	Thank you. I'll try to enter in two minutes. I'm not going to report to the debate after that, I'm going to download the discussion paper. I don't know what we're talking about here, except for the attacks. It's not about the minister at all. I may agree with the previous speaker about some things at the end, how to prepare a teacher, but he basically denies it when we have some material on the table. So, Mr President, do not say that you want to improve our education when you are also killing it. But you're not an expert in education, I understand. Please, how do you want to attract young people? There aren't enough school directors and deputies to promote this position. But we can offer them to do the positions we have to do at school. And we can even pay them beyond that. There will be no flat pay in the long run. And only social democratic governments have raised wages in the past. Look at the increase in teachers' salaries in the governments of social democracy. And it's going on. And no one doubts that teachers must be paid. But at the same time, there are positions for which we need to raise these people and we need to pay for them. What's wrong with a teacher getting paid to spend time with little colleagues? I don't think there's anything wrong with that. That the logopedo, who goes beyond and does my system's speech, gets paid to do it systemically. That's an extra job at the school! And that he's got a reduced period of time. If you want to rob teachers of up to 60 grand. Every year, those who do really well and will do those specialized activities, so reject it! It's okay. But then tell the teachers why the 60 grand. They don't. They're gonna get away to the private sector. And that support will be built in the regions - we do need teachers to work together, so that everyone doesn't do everything on their knees. Let them do it together! It'll make the job easier. And, of course, as far as directors are concerned. I mean, the career order covers the principals, too. Every director is a teacher. It covers him in a didactic way. He can do the specialty thing, too. And most directors do! [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Why shouldn't they be paid for it?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u35	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, the Minister of Education. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u36	Just a very short one. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very sorry that Mrs Dobešová, Member Okamura, has only shown that they have really mastered the text of the petition, not what is in the order of career. Just one example. If we understood how European projects and the IMKA project worked, you would have to know that 41 miles. The Czech koruna, which according to the positions of the European Commission, is actually quite few for five years, and you would have to say what it pays for. Then you would have to ask yourself why much higher sums were secured in the past period for promotional activities of much larger projects. The fact that we're talking about him starting the project. Of course. He could never start in building further professional teacher education if we had passed the law! Perhaps elementary knowledge of how European projects work and how they are supposed to complement something that will then be incorporated into some sustainability. And one last thing. I would like to know if false and false statements on my person are not repeated after 35 years of working for Czech teachers, after I'm not quoting emails and letters that say "hold on, it's a good thing, don't get pissed off, we're rooting for you," so I don't read populist here either. I just want to tell you that the statements that are attributed to me aren't true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u37	Thank you, Minister. With the factual remark of Mrs Ivana Dobešová. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u38	Thank you. I've been asked not to perform anymore, but I have to do it. Minister, is this a lie? You didn't write this? [[It shows a copy of a Facebook page where the minister talks about 20,000 illiterate people among teachers. The minister answers off the microphone in the sense that he's talking about something else.]] No, wait, you didn't write this? [[The Minister's answer wasn't heard at the stenograph table.]] Okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u39	Thank you. [[Mrs Dobešová leaving the speaker's desk off the microphone: So he wrote.]] I'm gonna ask you not to get crazy in the O.R., if that's okay. Mr. Zlatuška is registered with the next speech. It's a beautiful silence... You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u40	Mr President, Minister, I will follow up on what Mrs Dobešová showed here, because this is what I signed up for the debate at the last part of the meeting. It is possible to take this as a guide for pupils in schools to begin to examine which of the average of two to three teachers at their school is illiterate and, if necessary, to frequent their teachers by throwing mushrooms at them. But I would take it as a factual statement from the Minister of Education that he notes that he has 20,000 in education what he calls textual illiterate teachers. I don't know what text illiterate is, but it's probably someone who won't be fully qualified to act as a teacher. I put this together with the argument that I had here at the time when we discussed this standard here before she went to the Senate, and I justified the need for qualified university graduates to be able to work in higher education even though they did not go through teaching faculties. Apparently, the $20,000 is increasing the deficit. And I point out, it's an evaluation of the state from the Minister of Education. The second thing is that the court, which the Minister said on Facebook at the time, was instantly corrected. On June 26 at 11:09 he said something that could be described as a kind of apology. It says he's setting this status straight. And if I paraphrase the other text that's there, it turns out that he was extremely outraged by the untruths that are there, and he responded as he writes - sometimes I react emotionally. Then there is a statement - I quote again - that I merely expressed a rhetorical question of concern that the pedagogical public is often confronted with untruths. That's obviously what the rhetorical question has to do with it. assertive form. It's a statement. And he claims that there are 20,000 teachers who, on the one hand, are spreading the truth, but the second thing he says about himself is that this kind of confrontation puts him in an emotional state, when around midnight - from that time he was the previous status, he may have a number of other explanations, but we're not going to run into it, so that this thing puts him in an emotional state that he reacts in this way, which he then sets right. If it was the Minister of Education, who's just a politician, I'd say, well, social democracy doesn't have a large supply of qualified candidates, fine. But the Minister is also a professor at the Faculty of Education of Charles University, through which future teachers pass. Is this the model that we're assuming with those qualified teachers that they're gonna get stupid students' answers or students' emotions that they're gonna get insulted by teachers? Isn't this an incentive for us to think about who maybe prepares teachers at teaching faculties? And isn't that all the more reason to think about whether the journey by the faculty of education is the only way to think about it when the teachers of these graduates of teaching faculties respond so publicly? And this is the consequence of not only being a minister as a political function, but at the same time someone who shows how someone who should educate educators behaves. [[18.20 hours]] This is the factor that emerged between what we acted here in the House and what we got back from the Senate. I would personally prefer a version of the Senate if there were no further restrictions. It is, among other things, because it is there that it adds funds in a more pronounced way. The arguments against additions, which were heard by both the Ministry and the Prime Minister, seem more like blackmail to the teacher's public. They say if we approve the version that gives you more money, that's not what we're willing to get the money for. We can't even give this out of European money. Today, by coincidence, an interview with Aleš Chmelař, the Secretary of State for European Affairs, the Prime Minister's right hand in European negotiations, came out in the paper. The title is Let's pay for the EU's teacher's money. And Mr Chmelař, as an undoubtedly qualified person, says clearly there, with teachers, we have an opportunity, whether with the help of European subsidies or projects, to build a strong next generation and not at the same time threaten to create an economic imbalance. Mr Chmelař himself says, let us take European money and give it to teachers. I understand. Let's give them to teachers to add their salaries, not primarily to fund institutions. And here we can think of the arguments in the petition that came up against funding the institute, anything. But the fact is that there is an allocation of funds to an institute that is foreseen in a law that has not yet been adopted, i.e. money that is at least problematic. But we have these funds here, and it's more efficient to put them right into the finances that are given to teachers. The argument that the Ministry of Education has begun to use against the changes proposed by the Senate seems to me to be a very dogmatic insistence on what went through as a kind of political compromise. Mrs Bohdalová has been very suggestive here about why some have changed their minds. That's not a change of heart. This is a propensity from the compromise that has been accepted under some marginal conditions, under some other knowledge, with the fact that the other information that is added to it may deviate from this balance. And the way in which the Ministry vetoes the work done by the Senate - there has already been mention of what was there during the hearing for arguments, the Senator has also quite detailed the reasons that led them to the proposed changes that they are proposing, so these show that many of what the Ministry or the Minister is promising today can be missed in the implementation phase with those expectations, as unfortunately happened with a number of other things. This is why I will not support the House's version repeatedly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u41	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, Mrs Marta Semelová. I'm gonna read an apology. I see Mr. Šarapatka is leaving the O.R. He apologizes until the end of today's meeting. Goodbye. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u42	Dear colleagues, once again, we have a law on pedagogical workers and, of course, many emotional performances with them. It's not surprising. There have been a lot of amendments to the laws, changes in education and education over the past x years, and eventually Mr.Foldyna spoke about it. Some have already entered into force, others will still feel. There are those that we already know today that we will have to rethink, that they bring with them a number of complications and problems that many of us have raised in their discussion, and not just us, but, first and foremost, those who deal with the issue today and daily in the field. Unfortunately, their words are not always heard in time, see the failed inclusion, from which many are now having strokes in many schools. Schools are constantly under pressure, and they have to deal with new and new changes all the time, when new ideas come with each incoming minister to find out after some time that what has worked here for years is still the best, so it is necessary to get back to it. Of course, it costs a lot of money. We have become accustomed to discussing what schools need most, what reform, what educational plans, what textbooks. But the most important thing is the teacher. His personality, his activity and um are crucial in education. How he is professionally prepared for his work, his relationship with children and his profession, his moral and human qualities, and, of course, the conditions for his work to be created. Perhaps no one will question that the teaching profession is extremely demanding and responsible, plus it is under daily public and media control. Anyone who is prepared to comment and criticize on his work, because everyone who has passed the school feels the right expert in the field of education. Thus, the educator must survive all possible and impossible reforms, experiments and fantasies, often forgetting that he wants to teach in the first place. Instead, it is flooded with project processing and preparation of various project days, trainings, courses and is covered by paperwork. There are plenty of tables, reports, questionnaires, evaluations, recommendations and other forms that teachers and directors have to fill out daily. So by the constant promises of alternate ministers to reduce administration, educators have long since ceased to believe. However, they are on the lookout for another change of legislation, and I must say again that I do not blame them at all. The law on pedagogical workers, whose purpose is to be greater motivation of pedagogical workers, to launch a career order, to establish specialization positions and to guarantee extra fees, some expect with hope and curiosity, others with concerns about how much formalism and administration will bring back. For our club, I must say that we share these concerns. This does not mean, however, that we do not perceive some of the positive changes that the amendment brings. Restoring the system of district and regional methodological cabinets as one of the measures to be given professional support to teachers is certainly one of them. It's worked out in the past. Teachers used a lot of them because they saw specific help for their work. It is right, therefore, that it is the intention to return to this system, even if it is without today's law. The support of teachers during the adaptation period and financial awards of teachers whose help is very important for beginners is certainly meaningful. As with these teachers, class teachers and educators who will be entrusted with any of the specialization positions, if the law passes, of course there is a great deal of work going on. That is why it is logical and right that they too will be entitled to extra payments to their salary, while, at the same time, I consider it very important that, as we are assured at least by the Ministry, these financial claims should be guaranteed by the state budget. So we see these shifts as positive, and they would certainly be appreciated by the teachers involved in the extras, because it should also be stressed that most of the teachers will not fall into these categories. [[18.30 hours]] It is also true that some professional associations and school unions also support the order of careers. But the truth is, he has many critics and opponents. As has already been said today, over 21,000 teachers from 1,150 schools throughout the Republic signed a petition against the adoption of this amendment during a very short period. We identify with these criticisms, who draw attention to the risks in the event of the adoption of the law. After all, we drew attention to them during individual readings in the Chamber of Deputies. The KSČM club is consistent in these opinions and does not change the view. In our opinion, due to some newly established amendments in the amendment, it is not necessary to meet the expectations of the plaintiffs that the prepared changes will attract the crowds of new Amos into education. This is primarily about increasing the administration that the amendment brings with it. It is true that the representatives of the Ministry of Education are suffocating that the proposed career order is based on a different model than the previous discussed proposals, given the degree of bureaucratic burden. However, doubts, mine. on the basis of the proposed legal measures, even if they are simplified, but also on the basis of previous experience they remain. All you have to do is look at the schools, and I was just talking about it. School teachers and school directors are swamped with paperwork, forced to complete all kinds of courses and trainings, often questionable qualities, and with topics that suck at teachers, they only benefit from all kinds of nonprofits. However, money that disappears from the resort could be used e.g. to raise salaries for all teachers, not only some, as will be the case in the case of the amendment, but also for the increase in money for school non-teaching staff. I'll go back to the said administration. It is enough to look at the various paragraphs of the law, not to mention the sub-legal standards. It will apply to each teacher that he will set up his portfolio, together with the Director will process his personal professional development plan every two years, when the school principal determines his mandatory part, the second one will choose a teacher, then he will regularly evaluate the implementation of the plan with the Director and update it. In the draft order for the certification procedure, it is then clarified that the teacher creates a proof portfolio which forms an sheet of teachers to demonstrate the competences of the teacher's standard for the corresponding career degree, a professional development plan, evidence of competences from the teacher's standard. The evidence portfolio must always be proof of compliance with a specific competence from the teacher's standard, each document must be commented on in writing and justified why this document demonstrates compliance with a specific competence from the teacher's standard. Another problem is the preparation for the certification procedure. For the director, then, creating a school development plan, even though here I understand that there has to be a vision. The teacher will be required to conduct written documentation on the starting teacher who is preparing for the test, for the same purpose the evaluation must be prepared by the school director, the evaluation report is also compiled by the Czech School Inspectorate. In summary, the administration will increase, perhaps even more significantly for both teachers and school directors. When it comes to specialization activities, they are conditional on a specialization study of 250 hours, here they can manifest organizational problems. Simply put, who will teach for them. By the way, it also applies to reduced hours of work. Especially in small schools, this will be a difficult problem to solve. Other problematic parts. It is certainly worth mentioning that the teacher's obligation to pay CZK 500 for the third career degree is required to apply for the certification procedure. And while we're at the third career level, the teacher who's going to be assigned to this level will be an excellent teacher according to the amendment. Is it a guarantee of the number of credits collected, if I say so in a simple way, that anyone who demonstrates their knowledge for the recognition of the third degree is really an excellent teacher? Can it not happen that the surcharge and activities associated with this degree will be obtained by such, let's say, the school's Cvach? Why won't an excellent teacher be the one who "only wants to teach" and not fulfill the conditions for further certification? There's already a joke going on in schools: Do you know how to meet an excellent teacher? That he'd hand over all the papers on time. Otherwise, in relation to certificates, training for specialised positions and other changes that the amendment contains, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that it will not be applicable to small schools, small classes in villages. It is also rather strange that the applicant will be able to repeat the certificate indefinitely and still be entitled to support and to present the teacher. At present, some 60 percent of graduates of teaching faculties are seeking employment in fields other than education. In many schools, directors with great difficulty provide education and warn that it will get worse. Pedagogical congregations age, a number of teachers leave and retire, and new educators come at a minimum, so they can't replace them. There are clearly no qualified teachers of mathematics, physics, chemistry, IT, foreign languages, vocational training teachers. This is where the situation gets critical. He's pointing it out to me. and the Association of Apprentice Equipment. It is logical and right, therefore, that there are ways to increase the number of students in the teaching field and at the same time the interest of graduates in entering schools. However, the real solution is presented, respectively. The Senate returned an amendment to the Education Worker Act? I just have my doubts about that. As for the changes that the Senate has brought back to us, I have to say, I don't really understand them. For example, launching specialized activities, e.g. special educator in the field of school speech, specialists in spatial orientation of the visually impaired, that is in my opinion completely misguided. Logopedia in schools is very important. Some time ago, the Association of Logopers in Education said that two fifths of preschoolers had a problem with pronunciation. The annual report of the Czech School Inspectorate for the 2015/2016 school year points out that there are more than 25 percent of children in the care of the logo. Logopedic defects and speech disorders are one of the most common causes of delaying schooling. It consists of 27 per cent of all deferrals. And releasing a specialist from the law in the area of spatial orientation of the visually impaired? Oh, my God. Why? The spatial orientation that these specialists are dealing with is very helpful to disabled people, their integration in society. Visual disability is one of the most difficult with mental disabilities in terms of receiving information from the surrounding area. We see about 80 percent of all information by sight. It is true that the use of this specialization activity in schools is very small, but where necessary, it is extremely important for a disabled child. On that occasion, however, I note that the decree allows these positions to be created today. This is just a tipping into the law. So much for some of the changes the Senate brought back to us. Those amendments do not support the KSČM club and we will not vote in favour of this text. As for the proposal to raise money for class teachers for some specialization positions, which is suggested by the Senate, here I have concerns about one thing that if this were to happen, it would not be included in the state budget, the directors will be put in a position to have to look for money from their budget, and it will be taken from other teachers. Moreover, it would do a very bad job in the teaching body itself. As regards the wording of the law approved by the Chamber of Deputies. You know, I recently took part in a discussion on the issue of education and education in the Czech Republic. This discussion took place under the title From school to playing with the school. I think this name describes exactly what has been happening in education in the Czech Republic over the years. For KSČM club I must say that we do not want to participate in the games that teachers and their pupils will take away. Therefore, the KSČM club as well as the third reading of the amendment to the law on pedagogical workers containing among others. The career order of the teacher will not support it. Neither the House nor the Senate version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u43	Thank you, Madame. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. - Sorry, sorry, I have two factual points. The other speakers have withdrawn their applications, we have just a factual remark by Mr Vácha and then by Mrs Nováková. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u44	Thank you for the floor. I won't hold up. It's just, as my colleague Bohdalová said, to say the reasons that lead us to change our minds. We've heard a lot of them. I miss my teacher's standards. They were promised to the secretary, and we still didn't get them, we're waiting for them. And without those standards, you just can't support the order of your career. And I'd like to ask the Minister, we're also missing the accreditation of teaching programs. So that's my point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u45	Thank you. Now, Mrs Nováková. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u46	Thank you for the floor. I would like to ask, ladies and gentlemen, that we do not support any proposal - neither the Senate nor the parliamentary version. TOP 09 has always wanted a career order, wanted some rules for teachers to know by which rules their professional growth will run and how they will be evaluated, but both versions are wrong. I'm just a little light-headed, I once spoke of Secretary Valachová as being such a clever hobby that nothing will ever fall on her head. So I think it just turned out right now, it's all being taken down by the minister. But it already is. Thank you for the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u47	Thank you, Madame. Now two priority rights - President Stanjura, then President Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u48	Thank you for the floor. Let me just remind you, for the record, that we voted against this proposal when it was here in the first reading, so we will hold our position and vote today with all due respect to our fellow Members in the Senate, the changes are not significant enough to convince us that we should change our mind, so we will vote against the Senate version. And for Mr Okamura, through Mr President. I called on the Minister to resign at the previous interpelations, and he refused last time. I assume he's gonna say no today. But I agree that former Minister Valachová is responsible for the failure of a poorly prepared bill. That's just the way it is. And many of you who said, "It's a shame he's leaving," so I don't think it's a shame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u49	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u50	Thank you for the floor. Sorry, I'm only going to speak for a very short time. Firstly, it is a strange feeling for opposition policy to see how a large majority of the government coalition has not approved each other's proposals since morning. I would like to say that this is because you, colleagues, have seen that both of these proposals were extremely bad. But I'm afraid your motives are completely different. But all the better. We, as opposition, will certainly not prevent you from doing so. I just wanted to turn my attention to the budgetary aspect of this issue for a moment. I do not want to extend the debate here, but I would like to point out that the implementation of the career order has been massively funded from public sources since 1 May. Anything we can finance only if it has a legal basis. If we do not have a law that makes such a thing possible, I am not quite sure that it is justified to issue budgetary resources. I don't think we can resolve this in the House debate, but I allow myself to turn my appeal to the audit authority of the Ministry of Finance, the Audit Committee and the Guarantee Committee, the Education, Education and Culture Committee, to check the legitimacy of the Ministry of Education spending, because I fear that this project is not the only hockey that is happening in this chapter. But that is the matter of the Guarantee Committee, the Audit Committee and, in particular, the Audit Authority of the Ministry of Finance. I just wanted to say it now, here and on the sound record, because I am very concerned about the information coming from the Ministry of Education budget spending page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u51	Thank you, Mr President. That's how all applications are exhausted. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate. I don't see anyone, I'm done with the debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. So let me just remind you that time is not our friend, we have 15 minutes to vote. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u52	I certainly won't be stalling long because everything's been said. Perhaps at times more has been said than we would like to say, but I would actually like to thank you, because the debate was very interesting to me. I have entered politics - perhaps you know that I have been the director of one school for 27 years - because I am convinced that things are to be dealt with by nature of the problem and not by some political and party doctrine. And the opinions that I have heard here from various political parties give me this hope that we have the same interest and that we want to deal with the same things and solve them by the very nature of the problem. So let's really try to find the courage sometime and let's deal with them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u53	Thank you. The Minister's final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u54	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank, first of all, the hundreds and thousands of teachers and directors who worked on this project until this hectic time around May this year. Because it wasn't the Ministry of Education officials preparing something behind their backs. I remind you, this is a matter that has been dealt with for decades. If this amendment doesn't pass, well, we're going back to the professions at the crossroads, half-professions, as they say sociologically, and the ideal that we painted here, that is. back to professions, which, to say the prototypes are medical professions and professions legal, where, of course, there is a centrally planned and controlled system of further education, certification and graduated career process, so we are turning away from it and we will continue to shout about how it is unappreciated, how it needs to be done and helped. I hope that if it doesn't pass today, some next generation will try to do something like that. However, I would like to call on you now to support the original version of the House, because I think it is not just a matter of concern about the end of this school year, but that there have been thousands of people who have been working on it for at least the last five or six years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-022-002.u55	Thank you, Minister. We shall now proceed to the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the resolution I will read, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on pedagogical workers and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, according to the House press 959/6, as approved by the Senate, according to the House press 959/7." I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal... I declare this vote confusing. So I'm registering the application for check-out. I looked around the hall and at the time of the vote, but no one... However, I will oblige you, there is no reason to fail, and the vote will be repeated. [[18.50 hours]] So one more time. Who agrees with the motion for a resolution? Who's against it? The vote is 210, 131 Members are registered, for 1, against 99. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have not accepted the motion proposed by the Senate. [[Protest voices from the diaper.]] The motion was not accepted. [[Voices from the diaper.]] So I'm sorry, the mouth said something other than... This proposal has not been adopted. I note that we have not adopted and will follow the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Act in the version approved by the Senate. 5 of the Rules of Procedure. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, i.e. the agreement of at least 101 Members, will be needed to adopt this resolution. Kvorum has been set. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 563/2004 Coll., on teaching staff and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws, as amended, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate, pursuant to House Press 959/6.' Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this proposal? Who opposes this proposal? This is voting number 211, 134 Members registered, for 39, against 55. This proposal was not adopted. I'm saying we didn't accept the bill. That concludes this point at the same time. I'm looking at the minister who's interested in discussing another point. We've got nine minutes left. Opening point
