ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u1	342. Responses of members of the Government to written interpelations I would like to inform you that applications for oral interpelations may be submitted by 11 no later than 11 o'clock and their lottery draw will take place at 11.30 p.m. We have four written interpelations for today. The first is the interpelation of Mr Karel Fiedler on the national foreign language learning plan, and Mr Fiedler is intersecting the Prime Minister. He is excused, however, in this interpellation we are merely lacking in voting on the motion for a resolution. I will ask the Member to repeat the motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, but I am afraid that we are not only missing the resolution, but that we are missing about 22 Members, or exactly what is on the board. So if we are to vote on a resolution and there are currently 20 Members missing from the 67 minimum, which is even worse than the last time we were unable to complete this interview, then perhaps it is not possible to vote. And I didn't have time to count the ministers. I didn't hear the Prime Minister, but I'm afraid for the afternoon interpellation of the 17 members of the government... Is anybody even gonna be here?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u3	Of course, I can tell you the exact numbers... Someone's gonna be here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u4	Someone's gonna be here. What can I say? As they say, it's still clucking, it's still clucking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u5	Mr. Ambassador, I have 14 excuses for the members of the government to say that it is only until 14.30 with Minister Pelikán. So he's gonna be here. Minister Ťok apologies from 5:00 p.m. - he should be here too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u6	Yes, Minister for the Present Herman has a steady good turnout...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u7	I'm sure Minister Herman will be here too... So I can say that some ministers will be here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u8	However, it has nothing to do with this interpellation of mine. So I'm not gonna waste my time. There's still 52 on the board. So I don't know if it makes any sense for me to repeat the resolution or at least two sentences to remind you what it is when we can't vote anyway. And the question is, will there ever be any further written interpelations?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u9	Well, I'm just trying to call in my co-workers from the lobby. But you're right, we don't have volume 67. In that case, I will interrupt the negotiations on this interpellation and we will continue. Yes, please. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u10	I, Mr President, if I could, therefore, be at the counter, because I am somehow not given the right of priority. But it's a recurring condition. We're... If the House's grémium had agreed or better programmed the House's activities, and these times very poorly attended by the morning interpelation, instead, we had planned points that we had more than enough in the agenda, so we could discuss a number of laws instead of these - forgive me for the expression - awkward interpelations because of the presence or absence, we could discuss a number of laws.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u11	I agree with you to a certain extent, Mr. Ambassador. However, this is not in the power of the Gremium House. This is due to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. This means that we can take this as an inspiration for the next Chamber of Deputies. If it amends the Rules of Procedure, it may also amend the Institute of written intercessions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u12	Let me say, I will repeat the favourite sentence of your party colleague and my chairman of the committee. The House is a sovereign, if we vote for something, I don't see why we couldn't discuss a number of laws instead of a wasted time in the morning by interpelling.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u13	Okay. If the situation doesn't change on the board, it doesn't look like it yet, I'm going to interrupt this interpelration. In the second interpelation - it is also interrupted. I will ask Mr Luzar if he wishes to speak. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Wow, two ministers, ladies and gentlemen. By your means, I will not agree with Mr Fiedler's words from the point of view of participation. Because I'm afraid that most of the colleagues who aren't here aren't just because they know that there aren't ministers and that there aren't really going to be interpelations. And that's the problem. If colleagues knew that interpelators would have a partner here and ministers would be here, they would certainly come to support their colleagues in the framework of the interpelation. I'm afraid that's just a verbal farce. Unfortunately, this also applies to my interpellation with the Minister of Education. The interpellation's dragging. She didn't go to the morning last Thursday, she came to the afternoon. I'm told it will be this week, but it isn't. So, unfortunately, there's nothing to discuss today. And I apologize to those who have come to support my intervention that today will not be discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u15	Thank you. I suppose you'd suggest an interruption, but given that the Minister is excused, it takes time to interrupt this interpellation. And I beg Mr Valenta, who, in the third interview, wants to intersect Mrs. Minister Šlechtová. She's excused, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I can say nothing more than my previous speakers have said. I am very sorry not to participate in Mrs Šlechtová, because it is a repeated non-participation. It is a national electronic tool operated by its Ministry. There are already final fines in the order of CZK 100,000 and no amounts of tens of millions of crowns. That's why I wanted to discuss it with the Minister today, but apparently the Minister is not interested and will pay the fines from her own. So I'm begging you to interrupt this point in the presence of Madam Secretary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u17	Yes, of course, we should vote on that, but we're still not 67, so I'm going to interrupt this interpelation with my decision. We will proceed to the fourth interpelation, which may take place because Minister Stropnický is present and there is also an interpelling, i.e. Vice-President Filip. So I give the floor to the Vice-President to present his interpellation to the Minister of Defence. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, I've intersected the Minister of Defence, you have the appropriate press of 1119 with you. Briefly, I'll just give the reason for my interpellation. I was concerned about the issue of association 4. brigade of rapid deployment of the Army of the Czech Republic to lead the 10. armored division of the German Bundeswehr. What struck me was what I said in my questions, and the answer of the Minister surprised me, my fellow Members and fellow Members. I'm a little confused about the way the Minister of Defence dealt with my interpellation, because his answer is full of contradictions, not just verbal ones. In his response to my intervention, the Minister - I quote - states that this is a non-binding declaration. In this context, I would like to say that symbolism is very important in politics, and therefore the so-called non-binding declaration, as the Minister of Defence says, has a considerable weight. I suppose Minister Stropnický, as an actor, is aware of the power of the spoken word. Unlike him, as a lawyer, I can assure him that the word written weighs even more. Finally, some contracts cannot be concluded orally and must be concluded in writing and therefore the difference between the word spoken and written is given. If I am based, Minister, on your version that this is only a non-binding declaration, I therefore ask whether it was necessary to sign it at all. The next question I have is, if the declaration does not have any weight, whether you have tried to enforce such a text that would associate the 10th armored division of the German Bundeswehr to command the 4th Brigade of the rapid deployment of the Army of the Czech Republic. That was possible. Opposite procedure. Personally, I would not object to such a wording at all. The association of an army or its part of a sovereign state under the command of an army of another sovereign state is always seen as recognition of a subordinate relationship. It can also be interpreted as recognition of a form of vassalism. I therefore ask you, Minister, if you are okay with this fact. I don't mind. In your answer, you yourself say that the purpose of the document is not merely - and I am stressing the word - a joint exercise. It is clear from this wording that the intention is therefore something more than just, only, a military exercise. In connection with your claim that the declaration doesn't matter, that it's actually just a worthless piece of paper, I don't know how to understand you. Either they're either paying one or they're paying the other. Which option is correct? Why, then, do you have the contradiction in your answer? I also asked you, Minister, whether you realize that the command of an army of any country is subject to the political representation of the state and whether you are sufficiently aware of this fact. Your answer to the fact that you consider this question rhetorical really does not satisfy me. He's either testifying to your incompetence, or -- and that would be even more of a concern to me -- arrogance in your answer. I don't know which is worse. However, these qualities usually go hand in hand. In the sequel you will say that the 4. armored brigade signing the document of course did not begin to subject the will of the German government. I'm sorry, but it doesn't seem that obvious to me. Sadly, I must remind the Secretary of Defense of the chain of defence. The Supreme Commander is the political representation of the country, which is subject to the highest command of the army, which according to the relevant sub-ordination is subject to lower forces. Therefore, if we associate the 4th Brigade of the rapid deployment of the Army of the Czech Republic to the command of the German Bundeswehr, it is logical that at this moment it is subject to the supreme command of the army of the German Bundeswehr and thus the will of the political representation of the Federal Republic of Germany. Or perhaps any order that the 4th rapid deployment brigade receives from its German command will be consulted and approved by the Government and Parliament of the Czech Republic? If so, I'm afraid it won't be an operational decision-making process. But if that is not the case, and I assume that it only confirms my concerns, it clearly means that we are losing control of part of our power and handing it over to German hands. So I ask you to explain which of the options is correct. I'm not the only one asking for such an explanation. This interpelation is based on how many angry letters I received from your decision in my post office. In connection with the mentioned, although perhaps only a partial loss of our control over the 4th rapid deployment brigade I asked you whether you do not think that in the association of our troops to German units would not be appropriate certain restraint, at least for reasons of historical nature. I asked because the political representatives of the Federal Republic of Germany have proved and still prove by their actions and statements that they have great problems with the perception of reality, and especially the current German Chancellor actively, deliberately and completely irrationally created a security threat for Europe and Europeans, which has been the most serious since the security threat to Europe and Europeans was created by one German Chancellor. I asked if you were aware of this loss of contact with reality and whether you agree with Mrs Merkelová's actions. I think that the moment we submit part of our army to German command, a similar question is quite appropriate. And I'm sorry, your answer is that you won't answer such a question because it's irrelevant, I consider it merely proof of your arrogance, but also incompetence. I think you've got a bad script. I don't know which is worse. However, these qualities usually go hand in hand. But it may also be a fundamental misunderstand of the concept of debate in parliamentary democracy. If you do not intend to answer questions from Members of Parliament with your opinion that they are irrelevant, you show that you do not intend to answer questions from voters. Perhaps you should accept that the criterion of the relevance of the question is not whether you like it or not, or whether you want to answer it or not. I am of the opinion that democracy is based on the fact that every question is relevant and every question deserves an answer. In particular, this should concern the issues of the unpleasant. I would like to hear from you whether you share this view as well. Furthermore, I must insist on your answer to the question whether the Federal Republic of Germany's policy and, specifically, Chancellor Angela Merkelová's policy have your support. The reasons that lead me to this question, I think, have explained in sufficient and understandable terms. So many questions I insist that you answer me because your written expression of the answer does not arise and I am neither able nor willing to accept such an answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u19	I thank the Vice-President and now the Minister of Defence will speak. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A serious colleague, my fellow Members, is really amazed at the emotions of my former profession. I think sooner or later I'll come back to the great pleasure of many of you and you'll be relieved. It is only by your means, Mr President, that the answer is produced by lawyers, especially by such a relatively subtle or complex material, so that all the attorneys of the Ministry of Defence have just gotten a five. Of course, this may have been the most important one in the full conclusion, and that is the question of voters. They are directed at this interpelation above all, and apparently it is coming again for weeks, when we will dig up various historical dissents and pull skeletons out of closets. I would like to stress again - and I am not sure that my answer will satisfy, because I think it is set so that it does not satisfy any answer, but so be it - we are in a phase where we have signed a letter of intent. The letter of intent - it is not a treaty, it is not a binding document, it is a kind of initiation phase of some possible cooperation and concrete follow-up will certainly be the subject of the very consideration and decision-making, and this will not be the follow-up to restricting our sovereignty or fighting capacity. The opposite is the target. The motive for signing the letter of intent is to strengthen NATO's collective defence system. But it seems that this is an irreconcilable element for some of us here, but it is also crucial for ensuring the security of the Czech Republic. I don't know what kind of alternative some of us see. The creation of multi-national formations of subsequent forces for the purposes of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty through affiliate, or association, is the essence of NATO cooperation. Improved cooperation will also enable more effective work within the EU or the UN. Specifically, we signed a letter of intent for the 4th rapid deployment of a partner. Partner, i.e. the German 10th Division, with which she should be able to operate in a larger-scale operation, such as the level of divisional task group and above. The aim is to get to know each other better within the framework of joint exercises, training and education, to align procedures and requirements on skills and their consistent development to eliminate possible obstacles to smooth cooperation in the event of joint deployment. We are not only deepening cooperation with Germany, this is probably to be stressed repeatedly, but to a greater or lesser extent with allies in NATO, especially with Poland and other V4 countries. See e.g. our intention to send six people to the headquarters of the multinational division of Northeast in Elblag including the deputy commander of the division and the intention to afil 7. mechanized brigade to this division since 2019. The object of the letter of intent is simply to increase interoperability so that we are better prepared to face an attack against NATO territory in Europe or to avert this attack by effective intimidation. The object of the letter of intent is not the creation of a mixed Czech-German unit and therefore no mutual dependence. The Netherlands-German and French-German cooperation is not a model for us in this respect. Such a step would require the approval of the Parliament of the Czech Republic anyway. And the unanswered questions. I have called the last two questions irrelevant, not out of respect for you, not out of respect for those who are raising this issue, nor because I would like to downplay some controversial steps by the German Government. I have called them irrelevant, because by affiliates, as described in the letter of intent, we do not in any way submit to the political will of the German Government, nor do we give up even part of our sovereignty in deciding when, where and under what conditions the 4th rapid deployment brigade will be used. Thanks to affiliates, we will only gain awareness of how and with whom we would respond in collective defence to the activation of Article 5 and will decide collectively about the activation of this article by NATO, including us. Our sovereignty is therefore not affected, I repeat. A certain restraint in the association of our troops with German troops would therefore only be appropriate if our troops were threatened with affiliates being destined to do the political will of the German government, which is not at risk. Not to mention that the German Government, but the Federal Assembly, is deciding on the implementation of the Bundeswehr. In this context, I would advocate a more frequent and structured debate between our Parliament's Defence Committees and the Federal Assembly. If there are any concerns, let them be addressed in mutual trust and dialogue. Similarly, by letter of intent, we do not agree or disagree with the policy and actions of German Chancellor Angela Merkelová, please. This does not belong to me as Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic. Mrs Merkelová's argument, the fugitives, and the army, from my point of view, is purposeful and misleading. As a member of the executive, I intend to follow the spirit of the Czech-German Declaration on Mutual Relations and their future development adopted 20 years ago. Some recent steps by the German Government may be controversial, but they do not suspect that Germany's long-term strategic direction should be changed, which, among other things, is manifested by strong multilateralism in strengthening NATO's European pillar of defence, which is crucial for our decision-making, as well as efforts to strengthen the EU's capabilities in the field of defence. Germany has undoubtedly taken an active role in the defence of NATO and the EU in response to the change in the security environment, and without this active role, these key organisations will not be sufficiently operational for us from the security point of view. By letter of intent, we express our determination to further deepen the long-term above-standard Czech-German relations in the field of defence cooperation and thus join the active role in the defence of NATO and the EU. By deepening cooperation, we do not mean the construction of mixed units with Germany, as our Dutch and French allies did. Nothing like this can be deduced from the text of the letter of intent. Last but not least, cooperation with the Bundeswehr is not only a political step, it is also a step that welcomes the Army of the Czech Republic, a step that is intended to help further develop their forces and thus our forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u21	Thank you, Minister. I'll ask the Vice-President if he wishes to speak. Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, thank you for the addition, but you didn't calm me down too much. First of all, it wasn't the point of my interpelling to bring in historical dissents. I really don't. I was concerned with the current real state of affairs, the way in which you have your intention in that written word, as I said. And the intention follows not the joint exercise, but - and I repeat this again - the fundamental difference between the joint exercise, and that is the symbolic association itself. I understand that in translating some of the words that are used, people can perceive something else. But on the other hand, I am not satisfied with your answer because you say that we did not proceed in the French or Dutch way, but that our reinforcement is due to our commitment to the North Atlantic alliance. It is evident that the dispute within the Alliance is also very relevant for the Czech Republic. [[9.30 hours]] There are two NATO states against each other. Today, in Iraq and Syria, an army of the United States of America and an army of Turkey are facing each other. It's not just the dispute that's been going on here in the pact of the summer, and that's the Turkish-Greecen dispute, but this time it's a much higher dispute. It escalates the way the current US President approaches the Washington Treaty. There are clear debates in Europe about whether the so-called European army will be formed in the context of the fact that the United States of America is saying that it is paying too much and we are paying too little, and so they will not protect Europe's defence. NATO does not really provide for it. When we look at 2015, it is obvious that after excuses, that we should not involve NATO in the protection of the Schengen area, then it was said that someone else should deal with it and that it will not be a European army and that it will be a strengthening of Frontex. I didn't question the need for the external protection of individual allied states in my interpellation. I didn't question that. I therefore only question whether the particular association of the Czech Army with the German Bundeswehr is intended to serve the essential needs of the defence of another community in which we are also and which is the primary for us, and that is Europe. I'm really questioning that because it didn't happen. The refugees continue to flow, Europe gives arms to Turkey, the causes of the migration crisis are not addressed. Only the consequences are being addressed, and the protection of the external border is not ensured. And you said a very interesting thing in your answer. That it would be good for the Committees for the Defence of the Czech Parliament to negotiate with a specific committee of the German Bundestag and for this debate to be held on parliamentary grounds, I have no problem. Because then there could not be a document in this House that wants to change the Constitution and remove the Chamber of Deputies from the right to decide where to send and where not to send soldiers. This has not really happened in the German Bundestag. And probably after talking to them, it wouldn't have happened here. So there are no historical dissents. I really don't. My point is where we're going by closing those, as you say, with noncommittal declarations. And whether Europe is going to ensure its own external security, how we will participate in this, or whether we will continue to have a European emancipated policy and continue to serve something else that is not yet a priority issue. Because the security threat is the migration wave and its causes in the military conflict in Iraq, Libya and Syria. But you didn't answer that. I asked - and this was also the reason why I asked again about your support or not supporting the German Government's policy. You answered me, and I thank you for that part of the answer. But you don't answer those things you suggested. Because I do not see the subordinates of the 4th rapid deployment brigade of the 10th armored division of the German Bundeswehr as a priority of Czech security interests in terms of external security of the Czech Republic. I really don't. And that still doesn't follow from your answer. I understand that there's a legal department of the Ministry of Defense that has prepared a reply for you. I guess that's logical. Why would the Minister do it himself? But I'm concerned about the political purpose you're pursuing. Because even the non-binding declaration has a huge symbolism for both citizens of the Czech Republic and, in general, within Europe.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u23	Thank you. I'm still the minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Guys, I have a feeling that there's been a lot of mix-up going on in that performance right now. That we're a little further away from the aphilation. That we have reached Turkey and the Middle East and the entire territory of the Schengen border. I think he's a little ambitious. But even if I wasn't accused of avoiding the answer. A dispute within the alliance. Mr President, you, of course, consistently use the word pact. I've said it here before, and it's almost touching how you're using this word that our politicians used before 1989 to actually make that Alliance sound one-soft. To be something evil, aggressive, hostile. All right, keep calling it a pact. For me, this is an alliance that, for the first time, may actually provide us with an effective and effective defense. Indeed, the situation in Turkey and the Middle East is extremely complex. And I think it's kind of unfair to warm up soup on her here. It is a certain tension caused, of course, by conditions particularly on the Turkish political scene, and so far they are succeeding, let's say, to keep them on a plane that does not contribute to increasing migration, on the contrary. Now I really don't know exactly what's going on. I don't think the answer or your reaction was about the aphilation, but it was about NATO. I would like to stress that NATO is a military group and this is not due to its competence or content of activity to guard the border. As we all know, it is primarily for the police and the police of individual Member States and, where appropriate, their joint cooperation. And the army is being deployed at some extreme moments. But that's what the Washington Treaty has all kinds of articles for. It also has Article 4 where the competent State must initiate negotiations on the possible application of Article 5. And none of the Alliance Member States did this in connection with the migration wave in Europe. Because Article 5 will not be imposed on anyone. It must be called upon to launch, and it must be discussed, even if sometimes very quickly. That is why the Alliance has not been deployed at Schengen borders. That's really not an alliance challenge. This should be the task of joint efforts by police European congregations, where cooperation should certainly be more effective and effective. I think the Czech Republic is definitely not passive about this, on the contrary. And, of course, that, like the Czech Republic, other states should also have the military component prepared in their reserves for various allergenic cases. Which we as the Czech Republic have. We basically have 800 men on permanent alert for any kind of emergence, who, of course, are able to start practically immediately. And we're able to increase this number substantially. But I'm gonna keep that raise to myself at this point with forgiveness. It's not even relevant. I think it is important to say that we certainly do not underestimate the situation that military involvement in this is complementary and not prime-plan. However, as far as NATO is concerned, it can undoubtedly be more pronounced. And let us wait a few more hours for the results of today's summit, or half-summit, as they call it in Brussels, where undoubtedly, apart from the topic of sharing a financial burden, the fight against terrorism will also be an important topic. And that is where NATO is likely to join the multinational coalition of 68 states today in the fight against terrorism. It might be called ISIL in the declaration, or it doesn't matter anymore. But we all know what's going on. So in this Alliance, he's gonna have his chair at the table, so to speak, and he's definitely gonna be more active. [[9.40 hours]] I hope that's all in a nutshell. I just want to add to the famous aphilation. If the alliance is to be operational, and you, through Mr President, are actually calling for it, it can only be functional if it is able to have good training and effective follow-up forces in its rapid response. And the object of creating larger units within and between European groups is precisely the ability of subsequent forces to be able to intervene effectively in the event of an attack by one of the Member States. He doesn't know anything, nothing less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u25	Thank you. Two factual points - first Mr Luzar and then Mr Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u26	Thank you for the floor. Minister, you used a lovely word in the fight - the fight against ISIL. It's a beautiful word, it sounds beautiful, but the NATO commentary interpretation is that NATO soldiers will strengthen the radar monitoring of the AWACS aircraft. This isn't a fight, it's just watching from a great distance the fight is taking place on the ground. If you really mean it with the fight against ISIL seriously, then NATO must come in ground forces into these countries and into these fights. As far as Article 5 is concerned, today I happen to have heard comments directly from Brussels, which speaks of how everyone is looking forward to the presence of American President Trump so that they can finally hear from his mouth, directly from his mouth, whether or not Article 5 really applies. They don't want to hear the commentators say it, but they want to hear it from him. So where is this famous article 5 of NATO, if we don't believe it ourselves, and we have to wait for the new American president to come and assure us that America will really stand behind us? Play the news tonight's ČT, you'll see that my words are true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u27	Mr Ondráček, also a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As I listened to Minister Stropnický, I don't know if he's making a fool of us, or if he doesn't know what he's talking about. On the one hand, ano, Jesus Christ. [[A voice from the government bench: Jesus Christ!]] On the one hand, you are talking about NATO not having the task of protecting European space and not performing the role of border police somewhere in the Mediterranean to defend, I dare say it has prevented Europe from being invaded for several years, and it is the millions of people who have come here because it is not NATO's problem and you claim that it is the police problem, and on the other hand, NATO is adopting one of the things that is strictly police, and that is the fight against terrorism. So NATO doesn't want to protect Europe, but it wants to fight terrorists in Europe. So he wants to play cops inside Europe. So, Minister, if NATO wanted to protect the Member States of the European Union, it also protected millions of people from coming here, because then the terrorism NATO wants to fight would not be necessary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u29	Vice-President Filip has the floor now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, we may be able to get to what I wanted to know during the interpellation. We have come to see how you perceive the policy of the Federal Republic of Germany, we have come to this, and I think it is good that none of those endangered states, and I understand that the Czech Republic does not feel in your view the state threatened by the migration wave, that the individual Member States of the Pact - and I will use that word in a positive sense to avoid having to, and I have said this several times when I said the full name of the Washington Treaty in my introductory words - did not ask for the activation of Article 5, so that the army of Member States should use it to protect the external Schengen border. That's what I heard. However, I am convinced that the explanation you have given us in the matter of affiliate, as you quote from the non-Czech version of the non-binding declaration, I am not entirely satisfied with the answer. I therefore suggest to the Chamber of Deputies not to agree to the response to my interpelation, but I note that, after all, two more answers, which you originally considered unnecessary, you told me and thank you for those personally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u31	Thank you for the motion for a resolution. We will, of course, vote on that. The Minister of Culture wanted to speak with the right of priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, I have signed up for this debate because I do not want written interpelation to turn into communist propaganda. What is being said here is outrageous untruth. Peace in Europe after World War II is ensured only by the North Atlantic Alliance. Communists failed to start another war. Of course, Russia's occupation of the East of Ukraine and Crimea is a great security risk very close to our borders. And only thanks to our membership of the North Atlantic Alliance do we really have security. It needs to be heard here, too. Communists have had 40 years of time to devastate this country morally and economically in such a way that we are still digging our way out of it. And here I am raising my voice against this communist propaganda, which sounds in 2017 on the ground of the Czech Parliament! It is unacceptable and it is a disgrace to Czech politics that the Communists are still sitting in Parliament! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u33	I ask Members from the left side of the spectrum for peace. If you sign up, you get a word, there's no need to bang on the furniture. Mr Kováčik, then Mr Mackovík, then Mr Ondráček, all factual points.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u34	Mr President, colleagues, I am very keenly defending myself on behalf of the hundreds of thousands of voters of the KSČM and I ask Minister Herman to apologize to them for his words that the Communists have no business here at this time. [[He speaks very strongly.]] These voters are citizens of the Czech Republic and they are not people of the second category! They are equal citizens with the same political rights as the voters of the KDU-ČSL or the ANO movement or social democracy, the Civil Democratic Party or any of the other political parties who, according to the Constitution of the Czech Republic in free competition, are seeking to be here and represent the citizens of the Czech Republic here in the legislative and other activities that belong to this honourable assembly. In particular, it sounds strangely from the mouth of a person who says with the same mouth how well it is long after World War II that he defends us here, perhaps with his opinion it really has something to do with it, an aggressive pact, or a pacta sunt servanda, or an agreement must be held, or a pact is an agreement, it is nothing that would be a bad word. It's a one-word expression, a one-syllable expression. Yes, it's the exact expression. According to our NATO court, an aggressive pact! According to our NATO court, he's not a peacemaker. According to our court, where NATO may have intervened for decades last, and I name Libya, Iraq, Syria, and others, such as Afghanistan, so there is no peace. They are devastated states and are the nests of terrorism, and that is where millions of refugees flow to Europe, truth, mostly desperate people who defend their lives, who defend their bare survival, but with them also come terrorists. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] I ask Minister Herman to apologize to the KSČM voters immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u35	Thank you. Mr Mackovík, then Mr Ondráček and others.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u36	Mr President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a historic tour of the Minister's speech through Mr President. Firstly, I would like to remind you that the North Atlantic Alliance has liquidated 7 states over the last 14 years. We do not have to name them because the citizens of these states migrate to Europe and, along with them, many terrorists who are fed, trained and funded by the West. The first encounter with Islamists was back in the '80s. It was a war in Afghanistan. Then it spilled on us. And I don't have to tell you who trained the Afghan Mujahideen. They were mostly Western experts. Now a bit of an older historical excursion, Minister through the President. The name Bundeswehr comes from Hasso von Manteuffel, who, among other things, commanded the 5. tank army during the offensive in the Ardennes in December 1944. He's Němec. He was a man who was oriented to fascists because he served them. I would further point out that more than a hundred former generals and Colonels Wehrmacht served later in the North Atlantic Alliance and Bundeswehr and founded the Bundeswehr. I don't need to remind the aces of the air force in 1955. They trained in the United States, and many have done dozens and hundreds of kills, and especially Western pilots, not just Russian pilots. So, Minister, if you're here to argue as you argue, you're merely showing your close relationship with the Sudeten German Landsmanshaft. It is nothing that citizens of the Czech Republic need to hear.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u37	Mr. Ondráček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very short. Dear Minister, I'm gonna say pussy, save for the reunions where you guys are performing publicly. Do not insult Czech citizens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u39	With proper application, President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If I did not appreciate the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, I would reply to Minister Herman before you, but since I appreciate it, I will not respond to his ideological speech, I will find another opportunity. If the Minister prefers to see how the Ministry of Culture works, how he is underfunded, how people respond to his pointless actions, how they appreciate his failure to work. Shame on him!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u41	The Minister of Culture. I would also like to point out that this is an interpellation to the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u42	Yes, thank you. However, I have to respond to this invective. I don't know what the President meant, because when I joined the Ministry of Culture, our budget was 8.7 billion, this year it is 12.7 billion. It was 0.76% of the state budget three years ago, this year it's 0.96, and for next year we're at 1.3 percent. So what we promised, 1 per cent, will be fulfilled. Culture has been greatly increased financially. Cultural monuments are repaired in an unprecedented way. When I worked at the Ministry of Culture ten years ago, the National Heritage Institute's budget was CZK 400 million, this year it is managed with 4 billion. The state cinema fund had a budget of CZK 58 million at the time, with CZK 1.2 billion this year. And we are increasing salaries in a way that is unprecedented again in recent years. So they're idle invectors. I understand, of course. When the real arguments are lacking, we resort to lies, which is communist practice for decades. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u43	I don't have any more applications for the debate. I'll call in colleagues from the lobby. We have heard the motion for a resolution tabled by the Vice-President, which is an expression of opposition to the Minister of Defence's reply. Initiating vote. I ask who agrees with the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? It's vote number 155, registered 89, for 23, against 32. This proposal has not been adopted. That concludes the interview with Minister Stropnický. I will ask Mr Fiedler if he would agree to the procedure, because we have a sufficient quorum, if he could present a motion for a resolution on the first question at this stage, and we will deal with it by vote. I see he agrees with me. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u44	Yes, Mr President, we both had the same idea, so you crossed over. I'd suggest it myself anyway. I would like to take advantage of the fact that we are finally finishing the House Press 1085 when we can only take the final step, and that is voting on the resolution. First, in two or three sentences, I will say very briefly what has happened, and then I will make a motion for a resolution. We discussed the concept of the Ministry of Education for language education, which has not been processed in the long term and has not been provided with factual and relevant information. On this basis, I proposed a resolution which reads: 'The Chamber of Deputies is opposed to the Prime Minister's reply'.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u45	Thank you. So this is a resolution that we can vote on. Once again, it is a statement of opposition from the Chamber of Deputies with the Prime Minister's reply to Mr Karel Fiedler's interpelation. Initiating vote. I ask who is in favour of the motion for a resolution. Who's against it? It's vote number 156, registered 90, for 20, against 15. This proposal has not been adopted. And if Mr Luzar and Mr Valenta would agree, we would have solved the interpellation as well... [[The appointed Members argue that the debate was not even open there.]] Please let me finish... they've already solved the interview for Minister Valachová and Šlechtová in the sense that we would interrupt them by voting, because they were interrupted only by my decision as a result of the lack of a court, and it would be cleaner for me to vote on the interruption until the presence of the interpelees. So if there is no objection to this, we would first vote that we interrupt Mr Leo Luzar's interpellation to Mrs Valachová in the presence of the Minister. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 157, registered is 90, for 59, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We are now going to vote on the interruption of Mr Valenta's interpellation with Minister Šlechtová until the time of the Minister's presence. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's number 158, registered 90, for 58, against no one. This proposal was accepted and the interpellation was interrupted. So we've dealt with all the written interpelations in a process, and I'm going to modify the list of apologies. Minister Zaorálek adjusts his full day apology to an apology from 12 o'clock on account of foreign travel. Mr Petr Adam cancels his apology because he is present. Mr Čihák apologizes from 9 to 11 for health reasons, Mr Urban for the whole day without giving any reason, Mr KaňkovskKaňkovský for the whole day for personal reasons, Mrs Lorencová from 9 to 13 for visits by a doctor and Mr Sedlář between 9 and 11.30 for work reasons. So many apologies. Since we have exhausted the written interpelation, I will interrupt the House's meeting and we will continue at 11 o'clock points that are on the agenda. I'm interrupting the House meeting within 11 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, have a good morning. We should now focus on points 246, 288 and 229. These are House prints 1105, 968 and 996. At 12 o'clock, we should start discussing item 11. It's House Press 931, Military Intelligence, second reading. We would then discuss points from the contract block, first and second reading according to the approved agenda. We'll discuss point 343, this afternoon, which is oral questioning. The President of Mihola shall have priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u47	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you for a solid inclusion of paragraph 183, which is the House Press 1020, which is the amendment to Act No. 268/2014 Coll., on Medical Devices and Amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, submitted by Vít Kaňkovský. Yesterday, Vít Kaňkovský justified the need to discuss this amendment of the law, because the current wording does not logically increase the costs of health establishments, not only hospitals, but also outpatient facilities for the service of medical devices and instructions to work with them. I believe that if we want to draw money effectively from public health insurance and not burden the health system to provide external services that impose personnel requirements, then this change is more than necessary. I would also like to point out that this is a correction of the situation approved by this composition of the Chamber of Deputies, so it is a chance to leave this parliamentary term with a clean slate in this respect. I therefore respectfully ask you, fellow Members, to include this item so that it can be approved by the end of the parliamentary term, namely on Wednesday 7. 6. 2017 at 2:30 p.m. I remind you that the proposal has the support of the Ministry of Health, the Government's consent. Thank you for your attention, and I ask you once again for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u48	Okay. For order I will repeat the proposal - Wednesday 7. 6th at 14.30 as the first fixed point. Okay, thank you. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal to change the program. Please, Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u49	I didn't consult with President Mihola, but the bill has the support of our club, and I think we can discuss it tomorrow. I didn't notice any more reservations from other MPs. This hearing could go quite quickly. It's just that we try to discuss this tomorrow after the fixed points. That doesn't interfere with the approved agenda and we'll see if we can do it tomorrow or not. Would Prime Minister Mihola object to that? It would have been done sooner.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u50	I'm registering your proposal and registering it as a counterproposal. That means, I assume that President Mihola agrees that this point would be given at 26. 5. If it is not approved, then I will vote on 7. 6. I wonder if anyone else has a proposal to modify or change the program. I don't see any suggestions. If this is the case and no one is proposing to change the program, I will read the proposal. That sounds to point No. 183, House Press 1020, Act on Medical Devices, was included tomorrow 26. 5. as the first point after the fixed points. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 159. 109 Members and Members are registered for proposal 79. The proposal has been approved and this item has been firmly placed tomorrow, 26. 5, after fixed points. I will therefore not vote on this further proposal. Since the next item should be given by the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek and I don't see him anywhere, I will interrupt the House meeting for five minutes and wait for the Minister of Foreign Affairs to arrive. That means I'm interrupting the House meeting by 11:11 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-001-342.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, the time for a break has passed, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has arrived and we can therefore continue to discuss the fixed points. So I'm opening a point.
