ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u1	194. Mr Bohuslav Svoboda's proposal and others for the law amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the exercise of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended /German press 1086/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is also proposed here that we give our consent to the bill in the first reading. The Government's position has been delivered to you as House Press 1086/1. prosit refer to Mr Bohuslav Svoboda as the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time I have stood before you this week with a proposal to amend Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications to perform the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist. By adopting an amendment to Act No. 95/2004, which we adopted a few weeks ago, was a practical physician for children and enough, who is a separate and very important part of our health system, that this specialization has disappeared from this system. Among other things, the law was prepared to reduce the number of specializations. We have come to the conclusion that the number of specializations has not decreased, some new ones have been added, and the only one we have cancelled was the branch of a practical physician for children and adolescents. Childcare in primary care is fundamentally different from caring for children in hospitals. It is a care that has an essential component of preventive, essential component of actually treatment and monitoring of children healthy. It is a component that creates some communication between the health environment, children and their parents. It is a thing that is certainly not common in Europe, but it is a thing that is fundamentally better and also very highly and positively evaluated by those parents. The problem between the two fields, that is not really two fields, that is, children's medicine and practical medicine for children and youth, that was actually the only one, that is, the transition in these two fields, so that those doctors who are educated as pediatricians can work as practical physicians for children and adolescents after a certain completion in the courses, and vice versa, if any practice for children and adolescents wants to do clinical medicine and that great medicine with the use of all the techniques and knowledge we have so that they can move on in this field. This amendment to the law opens up the possibility of a transition between the two disciplines. [[11.20 hours]] I have to say that this year 84 doctors asked for a preliminary assignment to the field of general practitioners for children and adolescents. It's still a permanent increase. Every year, there are five, ten more against the original. And the moment they found out that the specializations were actually disappearing and that it was going into something else, they were downloading their applications. We have a great shortage of doctors in the field of pediatrics at all and in the field of practical physicians for children and adolescents in particular, and this actually enables their education to get into practice sooner. This training takes four years, it is fully competent and sufficient to enable the profession to do so. And it is not contrary to any regulation of the European Union. A four-year education is certainly enough. Thus, the draft of this law aims to return the branch of the practical physician for children and adolescents as soon as possible, so that there is no disadvantage for students who finish their studies in this winter semester, and so that, paradoxically, we do not have a well-functioning carriage carried by two horses who work in synergy, practical doctors for children and adolescents, and we cancel the carriage and instead of those two horses who work in synergy and for the benefit of our children, we leave only one horse. Therefore, the proposal also contains a proposal for this law to be discussed in accordance with Section 90, precisely in order not to interrupt the continuity of the branch of the practical physician for children and adolescents, and in a situation where the vast majority of physicians in the field of the practical physician for children and adolescents are at an age approaching retirement age or retirement age, so that their replacement is as quickly as possible so that those young doctors can be fully included in the field as soon as possible. Of course, the amendment to the law was discussed very closely with pediatricians as such, with practical physicians for children and adolescents and has support for them and for parents of those children. And I think that this is a matter which, in addition to the fact that it is a fundamental amendment to the law from the point of view of preventing and caring for children, that it is also our role as Members to support the fulfilment of what is the purpose of life, i.e. a certain generational continuation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u3	I thank the honourable Member. I am now asking the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Pavel Antonín. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u4	Hello. This is the way I learned I was the rapporteur. Thank you. [[With a smile.]] I have, in fact, repeatedly expressed myself when it came to the great amendment to this law. It seems completely pointless to me to separate these two components from each other again, and as an example I presented my position as a gynecologist, when a gynecologist who works in an ambulance also does preventive medicine, the obstetrician does a different job, and the gynecologist who operates tumors should be the third major. Basically, you could make a field like this out of every single branch of medicine. And just like the preventive gynecology and the surgical and obstetrical gynecology is a beautiful typical example. I totally disagree with this, and I'd be happy to hand over the veto against the 90s, because at least it should be discussed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u5	Thank you. I am opening a general debate, which the President of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák Members' Club reports with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u6	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to add the rapporteur's word to the point that the Government's position on this proposal is negative. The government has formulated its reservations, and so have I. Points out that, in its view, this proposal is contrary to European Union law. For this reason also, on behalf of the Social Democracy Club and the ANO 2011 MP, I submit in accordance with Section 90 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Rules of Procedure object to this Act being negotiated pursuant to § 90 (1) of the Rules of Procedure. 2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u7	Thank you. The first duly entered into the general debate is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u8	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, I would like to support the proposal tabled here by Mr Svoboda. I have explained the reasons several times when discussing an amendment to the law concerning the acquisition of professional competence, and I have explained all the reasons that led me to maintain the educational field of the practical doctor for children and youth in the list of educational disciplines. I think that the field has proven its viability over the years of its independent operation. It is not that this field, its existence, is contrary to the law of the European Union. It is just that in the European Union, the fields are otherwise regulated, that is true. However, this does not mean that the existence of a separate branch of a practical doctor for children and adolescents would be contrary to the law of the European Union. That's what I'd like to say about the government's position. The important thing is that 2,000 doctors work in this field. It's one of the biggest fields of medical care. And that's why I was very surprised that the amendment that we approved a few weeks ago, which aimed at reducing the number of fields, actually canceled one single educational field. That's what I think is completely wrong. And she canceled a major that has a very good sound throughout Europe. I would say that the representatives of doctors from the European Union often considered caring for children in the field with us to be very good at the meetings and considered the possibility that in the European Union there would also be a separate branch of a practical doctor for children and adolescents. I was present at a seminar that dealt with this field, and let's say that the majority of the performers who performed at this seminar clearly demonstrated that the existence of an independent field is very good. And I think they were also representatives from abroad who expressed themselves admirably because we have a separate field and we have great care for children in the field. For these reasons, I consider it important that even after the bill was approved a few weeks ago, it should be reopened and this field will return to education. So that's why I support this bill. I think that even in order to maintain the availability of field care, I beg you to support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u9	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly registered member is Mr David Kasal. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u10	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Allow me to comment on that, too. I'm really impressed by one thing. On the one hand, I would like to thank my colleagues from the solid KDU coalition for even admitting this point at the hearing, even though it has not been discussed by the Gremé. But that's just a comment. Let's cut to the chase. [[11.30 hours]] It sounds like it's a major. Nobody's questioning the field. We've been talking about education clearly since we talked about 90. There are many doctors who are of good quality, and there are many doctors who are not of good quality. And once again, it's about education, and it's been united here. Because the result of these two groups being divided is that each group has different treatment procedures such as urinary infections or other matters. Is that correct? Is this the right way to take care of our patients? Is that correct from a professional point of view? I don't think so. When it was said that there are a group of two thousand practices - yes, but we also have to say that of these two thousand practices is only 258, which is the number of IPVZs that have been educated in this way for 14 years. The rest of up to two thousand were educated by the original law, which means uniform education, and it holds exactly what the quality of child care is. When we say numbers, let's tell them how they are. And if 90 percent of doctors are educated by an old system that has been united, let's not confuse impressions and concepts here. Another thing that is important to me is that if it is educated according to a divided issue, doctors who are educated according to a new part cannot serve the LSPP. Who's gonna serve here? Will hospital doctors serve her? So what's it gonna be? When we talk about how the filling is there... I was here last week to discuss the proposal that we, who are not so-called educated according to Dr. Cabrnochová, should be able to take a course, so that we could also pursue children in the field. A draft of the Ministry was prepared, which counted on European money, which was in my possession - and, hey, the next day comes a proposal from IPVZ that doctors will pay for it and it will be 120 grand a month. When we talked about having enough accredited pediatricians, when we could practice to fit the law according to the new, that most practice would be done in maternity facilities, they told us that they had few accredited pediatricians and that it would have to be not the way we wanted it to be targeted by doctors around county hospitals. One last thing, and it really involves expertise. I have to smile lightly at the fact that they take care of children in good health. Often, our children go on tours that have 20 - degree scoliosis, and this will certainly not occur within one month of the preventive examination - among other things. I could keep going, but I won't. I won't hold up. If I also take the way in which some doctors are present in their offices, I wonder when they take care of children in good health. Therefore, I propose rejecting this proposal at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u11	I'm registering your motion to dismiss. Another duly registered member is Mr Krákora. Then Mr Štětina, then Mr Svoboda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u12	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Dear Colleagues, I think I have something to say about this, of course, because I have only 36 years of pediatrics, 22 years of pediatrics and 35 years of outpatient pediatrics - a practical doctor for children and adolescents - so I think I should comment on this. I won't be long. I agree with my previous speakers, Mr Antonín and Mr Kasal, who, of course, are very close to pediatrics because one is an obstetrician and a newborn is born there and the other is the primary of the children's department. I've been acting deputy chief of the children's department, so I also think I have some experience. Over 36 years, I've come to the conclusion that pediatrics are just one of the basics. You know, we have, of course, a specialized department, we have specialized cardiology, we have specialized neonatology, pathological newborns, oncology for children and so on, but that's not the basic field of pediatrics. The primary field of pediatrics is quite broad, but it can be managed. I worked in the department this morning for my career, and I had an ambulance this afternoon. Nobody said I'd do it wrong, I tried, I had to sort out some of the knowledge, of course, get some practical skills in the bed ward. I spoke to the medical examiner's office for children and adolescents, when she said: but those hospital doctors don't know how to do vaccinations at all. Please, first of all, it's not true at all, and second of all, the vaccination schedule is two A4 pages that you don't have to learn at all, you can have it in front of you, it's changing all the time anyway. It is, you might say, a lie. Or hospital doctors don't know psychomotor development. So when I took the baby to the hospital, I always had to write whether it corresponds to the psychomotor age or not, how many months or flights it corresponds to. So I don't know what practical doctors are drawing on for children and growing this information. My opinion is that I'm a little out of line with Professor Svoboda, a colleague of mine, whom I greatly appreciate, but he opposed himself a little bit. He said it was synergy and continuity. Synergy and continuity then goes to one goal, so one goal is then one major, and that's pediatrics. I am convinced of this and agree fully with my previous speaker, Mr Kasal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u13	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr. Jiří Štětina and his proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u14	Good noon. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I am a man who can admit that he will change his mind. And I'm changing that view, and I'm saying it completely publicly. If you remember, and we started discussing this maybe more than a year ago, I thought there was only one pediatrician. And that's how I talked about it. In that time, however, I have repeatedly verified that my personal opinion is not good. I do not want to speak for long, I am not one of those who unnecessarily extend the House's negotiations here, because I believe that such a thing can be resolved in committees and in personal negotiations with people who do this profession. I want to say very clearly and briefly. There is no LSPP anymore. It's been canceled. That's what hospitals do. So let's not say it's organized by the LSPP. It's not. There may be some conscious pediatricians who serve the so-called LSPP, but it's not organized. The general practitioner has his testimonial. Of course, I remember even more than some of the colleagues who spoke here before me. I remember when doctors went on the field from punishment when they were uncomfortable politically, they couldn't work in the hospital, they went to the circuit, they went to practice, and after years they found out that they were actually doing them good. That was at least after 1968. After 1989, money came to decide everything again. When a doctor privatizes himself, he is much better off than a doctor in a hospital. I believe, and that is the conclusion of my short performance, let us not prevent pediatrics from having their field as well, and therefore he is a practical physician for children and adolescents. Let's allow these colleagues to test, and let's not say that the pediatrician in the hospital or the pediatrician in the field doesn't understand anything. If they want to, they'll understand, and if they have other interests, they'll say, we can't, because we don't have practical experience in the hospital. [[11.40 hours]] And that's all it was... it was also said that field doctors should go to the hospital to serve emergency services. Well, that's not a nice argument, please. I believe that hospitals must be given enough support to keep their hospital doctors busy and, of course, have money for them. So in conclusion, I'm changing my mind, and I think that these two disciplines might as well be next to each other in symbiosis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u15	Thank you, Mr Štětin. Mr Kasal, Mr Svoboda, followed by Mr Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u16	Just a brief statement to the esteemed colleague Štětin through the President. There's an LSP. It exists in Pardubice County. Pardubice county arranged it, and the practitioners work there. And those with a new education can't. It's legal. Check it out.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u17	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Freedom. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u18	Thank you for the floor. This will be a contribution, and I will do my best to respond to what has been said here, and through you I will speak to my colleague Kasal and my colleague Krákor. You know, it's very true. They're good doctors and they're bad doctors. That, of course, is true. They're people like everyone else, and they have their flaws, and they have their limits. But we don't talk about it, we don't talk about doctors being good and bad. We're dealing with the problem of how we're going to educate them. That's completely different. This has nothing to do with the good and the bad. Of course, I know that a number of doctors who work in primary care have been educated according to another system. But, dear friend Kasal, with whom I have the same opinions in a number of things, or almost all things, the whole of today's medicine is based on the fact that most doctors have been educated in another system. Years since 1990, education has not changed that in principle. In principle, by virtue of the predominance - mostly all the practitioners who are were created by being, as my colleague Štětina said, out of hospitals. Children's doctors in a similar way. The education was completely different. And we're trying to create something here that should work, which should reflect that time has changed in some form, that constitutional pediatrics have changed, that it's no longer hospitalizing children with measles and angina, but that's about treating severe diseases requiring intensive care, requiring a metabolic unit, that it's a completely different medicine, that a child can't go to a hospital today. My parents don't want to put it there if they don't have to. Gros took care of a whole range of diseases, from infectious to treating some minor injuries, all of which actually went into outpatient care. And for that reason, the position of that outpatient pediatrician is becoming completely different. It becomes the position of someone who has to communicate intensively with children's parents so that what is needed and healthy for those children can be an argument. And that's completely different. I don't want to talk about who has a long medical experience. I've spent 50 years in outpatients and bedding facilities. I don't know how many of us are here. The number of children I have brought into the world, the newborns that pediatricians care for, is close to four thousand. I really know what I'm talking about. And I'm trying to find what's optimal. And I know that right now, of course, they are good and bad doctors, they are well and poorly educated pediatricians, they are well and poorly educated practical doctors for children and adolescents. But we're not gonna solve that by shutting down the field as such. We'll figure that out by making it even more attractive, making it interesting for young people. And the fact that it's interesting really shows that on this curve that I have painted here, the number of candidates for the field is growing as a practical physician for children and youth. The problem that has been discussed here, it means the penetration between these two disciplines, which certainly have a common basis, a huge common basis, that penetration is ensured. It is ensured by law and no problem in making a pediatrician leave the bed and make a practical physician for the child and youth, there is no, even a reverse path. There's also a reverse path, just read it. We both know what we're talking about. And in conclusion, I would like to say one thing. Let's try, when we talk about things that are a little bit predatory - Professor Thomayer said when you come to the patient, put your opinion aside as a hat on a hanger and look for the truth. Put your opinion aside. I'm just calling on everyone who talks about it to postpone their general opinion. It will postpone how it takes place in the Pardubice Region or how it takes place in the Liberec Region. Whether they're trying to see how it should go everywhere and how it's going to go and whether or not there's a problem with the LSPP. Bud, bud, bud. And we can't keep going back to something that was. We must look for a solution that will exist. And in my opinion, the solution, the solution to a whole wide-ranging outpatient care, including its solution on Saturdays, Sundays and nights, is that we will have high-quality practitioners who will deal with it, that there will be enough of them to ensure it all. I grew up in an office. My dad used to go there with diphtheria and pierce their necks so they wouldn't suffocate. I know what I'm talking about. And I also know how that medicine changed. Let's try to look at medicine with modern eyes. Always going back to something historic is wrong. Saying we were miseducated, well educated, that it was better, worse... Let's say we're looking for a better way. And I believe that the better way is to actually have a group of doctors who are primarily focused on taking care of an outpatient. It's a completely different decision than making: I'm going to the hospital and I'm going to work in the intensive care unit day and night with all the problems it has. And don't forget, too, how high a percentage of doctors we have in the field of pediatrics and pediatrics at all, and how much of those doctors are unable to decide at the beginning for what you call great medicine, but they can do the daily work that we, who have done great surgery, would probably not be able to choose either.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u19	I thank Mr Svoboda. Mr David Kasal, Mr Hovorka after him, Mr Štětina after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u20	I respect my colleague, through Mr President, very much. But I really can't agree with what was said here. If we had to... I never said we were going back to something. We fix what's wrong. No major's off. The field of practical doctor for children and youth remains. We're only talking about the educational program. So don't start again. Secondly, I would like to have a real practice of cutting Germany, cutting Austria or Switzerland. Go see what our practice looks like on Friday at 12 o'clock. You can't run into an intern.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u21	Thank you. With Mrs Hnyková's factual remark, then with priority rights, President Stanjura, then Mr Hovorka and Mr Štětina. Mr Petr Adam is still apologizing today from 11.45 for personal reasons. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u22	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, as a member of the Health Committee, I was not mistaken when we discussed the Act on Doctors No. 95, when I thought we had a lot of responsible doctors on the health committee. But there was one thing that really stopped me. The first draft amendment actually reduced individual fields. In fact, in the second amendment that came, the disciplines were re-dissolved and there was no reduction. The only reduction that just happened was with the children's doctors. [[11.50 hours]] I would have thought that we should comply at this point, and I would support this proposal, or this amendment, this amendment of the law. I think we should comply with the request of children's doctors, and I think it will be nothing. We didn't reduce anything in that amendment to the law, and I think it should help these doctors too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u23	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u24	Thank you for the floor. I have two things. The first is procedural. The chairman of the ČSSD club vetoed the 90th, but not on behalf of two clubs. I would like to see the 50 signatures of members of the Czech Social Democratic Party club, such as those who are in Japan, as they signed it. [[Screaming from the O.R.]] Two clubs. He didn't say that on the microphone, so I'm sorry. We can look at the log.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u25	I'm sorry, I didn't realize it was on behalf of two clubs either, but if he actually said that...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u26	Not really. But that's not the point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u27	Mr. Glassman, please, was it on behalf of two clubs? Excuse me, Chairman Stanjur, for interrupting. Did you veto the proposal on behalf of two clubs?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u28	He didn't really say it on the microphone, quoted the paragraph, but that's okay. It doesn't matter, I say it in time for it to be adjusted. I don't take anybody's word for it, and after a closed debate, as I say, that's not possible. But we can look at the log. But that's not the main reason I volunteered. I was afraid I'd be the first non-doctor to speak, but Mrs. Hnyková beat me to it, so I'm glad. It amazes me at the speeches of some Members, particularly Mr Kasal, the pride. You really appreciate Mr. Docent Svoboda to say that he's confusing concepts and impressions here. Those two sentences don't go together. Either I respect someone, or when they talk about professional stuff, they say they confuse concepts and impressions. That's what you said in your first performance. Two. Name those practical doctors for children and adolescents who are home at 12 p.m. on Fridays, and do not insult them all. Do me a favor. Do me a favor. The flat-rate attacks... Mr Kasal apparently toured the whole Republic last week, checked at once or had some 1,999 assistants, visited the two thousand practical doctors for children and adolescents and found out that they were all at home. This pride is incredible. These doctors, there are 2,000 of them... Before, you talked about how important education is, and in your second performance, you say, "We're not interrupting our field." It's just education. I'm quoting you exactly. So if it's irrelevant to you, it's just education, and at the same time, you don't think these people know how to do it, and they're still sitting at home, and they're not really paying attention to those kids, so from my point of view, it's an insult. If you know such a doctor, name them here and say: This one is a disgrace to his field and his colleagues. Instead of serving, he can't do it, and instead of being in the office, he's home. Not the flat-rate judgment you said. So it's not just a professional discussion between doctors. Ask your parents where they're going first and if there's a problem with the care. Mrs Hnyková said it right. Remember, and it was a government bill that you wanted to reduce and what the outcome is. You found one victim. A major with 2,000 doctors. I met with the representatives of this field during the discussion of the original bill, and I have to say, the ladies convinced me of their point of view. And it's not just a matter of medicine to tell all the rest of us who's been a doctor longer and who can arrange an emergency in your country. It's not that at all. The point is, with pride and arrogance, I'd say you're going up against an important group of doctors, and you're saying, "I know better than you who do it, how to educate." And that's why the bill, among other things, is that they convinced me that they were doctors and doctors who had first place not to be at home on Friday at 12:00, but that they cared for the children. If you think otherwise, it makes me sad. And it's just not like that. Try to suppress - not put your hat down, as the gentleman, Mr. Svoboda, said - try to suppress your pride and give space to your two thousand colleagues who want it differently than you want it to.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u29	Thank you. Mr Pavel Antonín, Mr David Kasal, followed by Mr Pavel Antonín.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u30	I've been in the House for seven years, and we've been trying to take care of doctors' education for seven years. For four years, it's been happening seriously, and I was glad it finally happened. When the whole fight was fought and this discussion was held here repeatedly in committees, in clubs, in plenary, and the whole situation was voted out again, it pulls out again, and it starts to debate again, and the fight starts again with the same people and the same arguments. I don't understand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u31	Mr David Kasal and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u32	Thank you for the floor. Through Mr President to President Stanjur. If that's what it sounded like, I'm surprised how you reacted. I'm today, virtually. From yesterday to today, he served. I serve seven services a month, so I keep meeting with the way it is. And that's not about my opinion. I could quote the views of the European Paediatric Society, I could quote the views of pediatricians and mayors throughout the Republic. I've really been going around, and it's not just my personal opinion. So it's just for my explanation so you can understand that. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u33	Thank you. Mr Svoboda, Mr Stanjura, followed by Mr Svoboda, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u34	We also talked here about the fact that this is a question of parents' opinion. I'm an expert, I have classmates who do pediatrics, they make it super special, I can contact anyone in the whole republic to take care of my little kids. But what do you think? I have for my three- and six-year-old child a practical doctor for children and adolescents, to whom we drive him through Prague to that office, and we are all in that family a doctor. We could do a lot of things ourselves, and we're going there just to see if what we see as a banal disease, if that's what it is, just because the girl understands it, she does it, she sees the kids. And now I'm speaking as a parent, not as someone with the highest possible education and eight testimonials.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u35	Thank you. President Stanjura and his point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u36	So it doesn't fit in. I have not criticized that you have an opinion other than that of a fellow Member of Svoboda. No way. And I believe it might be someone else's opinion. It bothers me, however, - I criticized the way you said those practical doctors were at home at 12:00 and that you said they were bad among them. But that's what we find in every profession. We can just say that it's in every profession. Mr Antonín wonders why we are bringing this up again and why we are debating it again. [[He's turning to the news desk.]] The rapporteur doesn't listen to me when I talk to him. He still won't listen to me. I am speaking with the rapporteur. He wonders why we're discussing this again when it's already been said. Because these people feel wrong because they are the only victims of government efforts to reduce. And remember what the original proposal was, what the result was. I don't really have the number in my head, but there were 42 and 41? I'm sorry, I'm not a doctor. But other simplifications and the abolition of education in other fields simply fell out of the original proposal. They feel like injustice, they turn to us with a request to try to renegotiate and defend their interests. Professor Svoboda has taken the lead, and that is why we are discussing this. That's why. You have not been able to explain to these doctors that what you have largely agreed to is correct. Sometimes you lose that fight, you lose that opinion, you're minority, but you don't mind and you accept it. In this case, it feels like a great injustice, which is why we agreed to defend their interests, and I firmly believe that we will find a majority in the Chamber of Deputies who will defend it. So I do not question - I did not say that Mr Kasal's view of this law is personal. But if all the chieftains and all the pediatricians agree with you that offices are closed at 12 o'clock, then I don't know. I don't think that's true. I mean, when I use my adult doctor, I don't really know when he has his office hours. [[The President draws attention to the time]] As a good physician, he'll pick up my phone outside the office and take care of me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u37	Thank you. With proper application by Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u38	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, has been told by the rapporteur here that there has been a struggle here, and the result of this struggle has actually been a reduction of one single field. The law that was proposed was to fundamentally improve the education system of doctors. I remember very well that Professor Svoboda here made it clear that he would support the law because he wants the law to start to apply, but that he would go back to the fact that one of the educational disciplines fell out of the law. And that's actually how he fulfills that promise. I didn't vote for the law at the time because this proposal, the elimination of the business, passed the law. I would never dare, I would never dare say that doctors pediatricians in a hospital or doctors for children and adolescents are more or less educated. Just like the previous speakers said, either the doctor is good or better or worse. But it's an education based on the educational field. Doctor pediatrician has a longer education, is educated in the field of care provision in the hospital. And the practical physician for children and adolescents has education partly more focused on field care, because he is in the office alone and has to decide quickly. He doesn't have the team that's in the hospital, he doesn't even have the machines that are in the hospital. But we also have to admit that health care is about the division of competences. And the health system, if it's supposed to work, it should be that what's in the competence of a practical physician for children and adolescents, or a general practitioner, is solved in that doctor's office, and only what he can't solve, because he just doesn't have the conditions to do it, is sent to the hospital. And that's the system of economical functioning of the health system. And this is what I think is the main reason why a practical doctor for children and adolescents really should be preserved, and I therefore support this bill. I'm in favour of the permanence of these disciplines. And you know for yourself that at the beginning there was an effort to reach an agreement, but then there were some problems, that there had been a disagreement, that said no, that the field must definitely be abolished. So I really am in favour of this bill being approved. I would like to propose that this law be ordered to the Health Committee and to shorten the time limit for discussion to 12 days. This also corresponds to the fact that he will be sitting in the week when the Chamber of Deputies, the Committee on Health will be sitting on Tuesday and this bill can be discussed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u39	I'm registering your motion, Mr. Ambassador, to shorten the deadline to 12 days. Another duly registered member is Mr Jiří Štětina. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u40	Thanks again for the word. Colleagues and colleagues, I appreciate all the opinions that have fallen. Whether it is one opinion that advocates this proposal for a new law or has the opposite view. I fully respect that, and in every opinion his rational truth is. But please don't argue that the European Union forbids us. We had an excellent education system and we said that, according to the European Union, we must do this differently. Well, where did we go? That we don't know how to do it today. I'd like to address another question today. If we have so-called fields. outpatients, so we have outpatients, and those doctors who have a capital payment - and now I don't want to get into conflict with anyone, and I don't want to insult anyone that someone ends at 12 o'clock on Friday, etc. and everything goes to the hospital, I don't take that into consideration - but if the capital payment is a general or practical outpatient, the patients for whom the payment is paid must be taken care of for perhaps 24 hours. And there's no way their so-called. state-of-the-art organizations or their associations said it was against the law. It's not against the law. No law provides that working hours are for doctors with capital pay from - to. Of course, the capital payment is that the doctor just takes care of patients all the time. Well, that's what we should be dealing with here, not saying there's a difference in education and that the education of doctors in ambulances and hospitals is different. It's not. Medicine is one, and, of course, the question is, am I doing it in a hospital, where I have options for conspiracy, consultation, and I don't have it in an ambulance. I can only consult there by phone. So let's just do this thing. I really wish that this bill had been passed and that we should finally bring order into health care, because in my experience and knowledge there has not yet been any major reform of health, we are just still talking about it. Thank you, and I promise you, I will not speak.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I note one factual remark from Mr Opálka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u42	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues, I just want to make a brief comment on the operating hours of practical doctors or ambulances. You know, we were on the board of directors dealing with a situation where health insurance companies are obliged to provide health care for citizens, for their insured people. And it's common knowledge that the working hours in the ambulances have started to get shorter. It was therefore considered whether the situation would be dealt with financially or eventually won the bonus. This means that those who extend their operating hours will have better funding for points. Well, that's one thing. And the second thing is that it also included the question of visiting patients at their place of residence, because we have a considerable problem with that. What is not solved so far is the rescue service and then, of course, it is a matter of regions, but also services, Saturdays, Sundays or evenings, when there is not yet a tool for the practical doctors to force it, and it actually goes on the shoulders of hospital doctors because it is provided by hospitals. Just for a little while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u43	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Sklenák. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u44	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I would like to assure President Stanjura that my...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u45	Through me. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u46	As you wish. [[Resurrection in the O.R.]] So I would like to assure him that the objection to the discussion of this press pursuant to § 90 para. 2 was raised on behalf of two parliamentary clubs, namely the Social Democracy Club and the ANO 2011 Club, so I am repeating this now. At the same time, on behalf of these two clubs, I also veto the shortening of the deadline as proposed by Mr Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u47	Thank you. Mr Stanjura's point of order now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u48	I'm sorry about the inaccuracies. I mean, when I saw President Sklenák, before he started talking, I'd already signed up for the facts because I figured out what he was going to say. So I suggest we shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. You can't veto that. But I'm glad, I can appreciate now that the coalition YES and ČSSD actually works. We say that all the time. It's the kind of game you guys compete with each other, it's just for voters. And I think it's good that we all know that the coalition is working. I'll be calmer before the weekend.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u49	Please, Chairman Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u50	Thank you and I hope, Mr President, through the President, that you also appreciate my approach, that I have raised the veto in the general debate, not as you sometimes do, until after it has ended, so that the next proposal cannot be made.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u51	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I do not see an application, in which case I am ending the general debate. I am asking the appellant and the rapporteur for final words. Please, Mr. plaintiff. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u52	Thank you again for the floor. At this point, I'd like to talk about what we're dealing with here. We do not solve either the political problem or the electoral preference, nor do we measure who has bigger spurs, but we talk about what caring for our children will look like. I don't know many topics that should be more important to us, and I can't imagine actually moving them away as superficially and freely as it sometimes sounds around here. The problem with outpatient pediatrics and its main problem is that it is inadequately ensured. At the moment when we have the idea of running the care of a capital patient for 24 hours, as has also been said here by a previous speaker, we must have the opportunity for that care to run. Without going back to the reminiscences all the time, in the system that worked here for the first Republic, it was so that the general practitioner who had his patients actually took care of them 24 hours a day, that he had a phone by his bed that rang, and he had to go that he had a special bell at the door of the villa that rang his doorbell, and he knew the patient was calling him. And when he wanted to have a day off, he had to make a deal with another, a second practical physician, that he would take over for him for that time. And I know, and I know, because our family medical tradition is decades back, that it meant when the doctors in that region were only three, that when they were doing well, you had a day off once a week, maybe twice a week, a night off. I know today's times are different, medicine is different, but what hasn't changed, and we obstetricians know it well, what hasn't changed is work at night. Obstetrics is at night because children are made at night, so they are born at night to have a closed number of days in the womb. And they have to count on it, and they have to look for a solution. The solution isn't that we're gonna argue about whether it's supposed to be hospitals or not doing hospitals, whether we're gonna set up some emergency services or not. It just has to count how many people it needs, and we have to raise these people. And that's why I'm doing this to create this field - a practical doctor for children and adolescents - because it's going to be a field that counts on having a certain form of care for its registered patients permanently. It's all they have left. When they go out into the street, people stop them and ask them what to do and where to do it. The care goes beyond the scope of the office hours anyway. And if we know that outpatient care is cheaper and more effective, then we have to do everything we can to preserve it in this form, not to change it all and push it over. We're talking about something that's changed terribly, and we're still talking about it in the old-fashioned spirit, because sooner when a kid was sick or even an adult when he went to practice at night, what changed? The trainee and the kid had the same fontoscope and the same fingers that he knocked and the same fingers that he grabbed, like a doctor in the hospital. It's different today. Today, when I imagine the issue of appendicitis, the appendicitis, the appendicitis, the thing that you miss, you can put the child or the person at risk of life at risk, of course it wants some laboratory facilities, of course it wants some tests that are modern today, and of course it wants the practitioners to be equipped with ultrasounds today, and they can sort things out, and they can have some backgrounds to send the lab to, but we have to deal with that. We're not supposed to take them down to the hospital, and we're going to deal with it in the hospital. Always outpatient medicine simply has to have adequate laboratory investigation facilities that can be used, and that is crucial. Not just the fingers, not just the phonentoscope, but also the opportunity to do so. This is about the fact that not only the education system but also the primary care system must evolve. It's just that today isn't about you registering a patient and sometimes talking to him, giving him a pre-emptive check-up so that there's no result. Medicine must have a different dimension, and that is why I am convinced that raising people who primarily want to do this is essential. If I primarily decided to go to the hospital, and then after eight or ten years, I'm leaving him for primary care, then maybe it's true that it's just a question of money, or maybe the doctor doesn't want to be up at night. And that's why I'm saying that letting primary care take place like some kind of garbage, like some part of the whole pediatrics thing, isn't good. Believe me, I know what I'm talking about, because we have it in gynecology. Gynecology has its outpatient file, and it has its hospital file, and we're learning the same thing, and so it's my way of raising the doctor, and the moment he does the test, he says, "I'd take two days in an ambulance." And after six months, he comes in and says, and I would cancel the remaining days in my hospital. And it's just because it's an upbringing that wasn't focused on something. The education that my colleague Kasal spoke of through you, which was old, was a two-stage education that said: if you have an "A," you can only be in the field when you have a "B," you can be a manager in the hospital. That split first, and then you couldn't mix it anymore. We don't have it today, we have one education, and that's why in some ways we need to separate what is bed care and what is outpatient care. But I'm going back in circles - every speaker has a circle to go back to where he started - I'm going back to it, we're not deciding the political struggle between the parties, between some personal interests, because whether you want or not, there's somewhere inside, something that's your internal opinion, and that's mostly internal interest, we're deciding what the care of our children will be. And that's what I want the only one on the table. All the other arguments, what, who, how, where, it doesn't matter. Let us look for the optimal solution and look for it prospectively with the fact that medicine will actually be - what will it be?!, is different than it was, and that education must be different and that even some specialization in this seemingly similar thing, such as a child in a hospital and a child in the field, is essential and serious and beneficial to our children.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u53	Thank you. The rapporteur's final statement. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u54	I will never be as good a rhetor as Mr. Professor Svoboda. So if you'll excuse me on this one. But I would like you to understand that what was voted last time in this law was correct. A child who comes to a pediatrician in an ambulance is as sick as a child who comes to a hospital. The doctor who treats him should have one system of education to prepare him for how to care for the child. Not another with one round stamp and the other with a round stamp, which is afraid of that stamp now to lose. That is what I think is absolutely essential, and you should all understand. There are states where a pediatrician - and close German-speaking countries around us - is a specialist in the whole district who consults special pediatric diseases and such a common, basic encounter with a medic is meeting with a family doctor, and only then is hospital care. That's what pediatrics can look like. I'm glad it works the way it is, and I'm happy for it. It doesn't feel like what goes from the hospital to the ambulance is garbage. It seems to me that the connection between the hospital and the terrain should remain once and for all, and that there should be no obstacles to it and that there should be no ditches between them. Finally, I would like to say that there have been eight colleagues, some of whom repeatedly. Several proposals were made to discuss it in the '90s. Veta to discuss in the '90s. Shortening to 12 days. The veto to be reduced to 12 days. And a hearing in 30 days. And then rejection at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u55	Thank you, too. We will therefore now vote on individual proposals. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. I'll check you all out and ask you to sign up with your cards. So first of all, we will consider the motion for rejection tabled by Mr Kasal. I'm taking the vote, and I'm... I'm sorry. [[Not possible. Insufficient number of Members.]] I declare this vote confusing. Although there is an optical majority here, only 63 Members are registered with their cards. And the quorum of the Chamber of Deputies is not at this moment. So I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards so that the House of Deputies is a quorum. [[He's waiting for a while. Noise and commotion in the hall.]] Whereas The House of Deputies is not a quorum, I am interrupting negotiations until 12.30 and I will ask the President of the Clubs to get Members to vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-30-ps2013-059-04-010-194.u56	Madam, ladies and gentlemen, I shall also read the apologies. Today, from 13 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Štětina apologizes, and today from 12 to 14 o'clock for family reasons, Mr Jiří Holeček apologizes, today from 12 o'clock to the end of the day for working reasons, Mr Ondřej Benešík apologizes, and today from 10.30 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Ivan Pilný apologizes. Since the time for a break is up, and the Chamber of Deputies is still not in a position to settle, I am interrupting the Chamber of Deputies' meeting until Tuesday 11 after consulting the presidents of the MPs. 7:00 p.m. to 2:00 p.m. Thank you.
