ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u1	8. The draft law amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions of acquisition and recognition of professional competence and specialised competence for the exercise of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended /German press 723/7/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as House press 723/8. I welcome Senator Milada Emmerová among us. Hello, Senator. I ask that the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, hello again. It's another very complex material, so I'll allow myself to zoom in very briefly. Once again, a bill that was rejected by the Senate, I suspect it was one vote. I would like to appreciate that this bill has been very carefully discussed in both chambers of Parliament of the Czech Republic and its committees. The Chamber of Deputies has already been approved once, and the Guarantee Committee, which was the Committee on Health and Social Policy in the Senate, has, after a long discussion, expressed its acceptance, albeit with comments and amendments. [[16.50 hours]] Let me remind you once again that the aim of this proposal is, in particular, to introduce measures that will help to stabilise and improve the system of specialisation education and education in the superstructure fields of doctors, dentists and pharmacists, to stabilise the number of doctors in certain fields, to ensure the mutual penetration of certain fields, to expand the possibilities for further education and, last but not least, to improve the reconciliation of education with the family and working lives of doctors. I would like to say that although the proposed bill has deviated somewhat from the original government proposal in one of the intended objectives, namely the intention to significantly reduce the fundamental fields, its resulting wording is a possible technical and political compromise. This deviation, which was also the subject of discussion, is that instead of the proposed reduction from 46 to 33 specializations, only 43 specializations were eventually reduced to 43 specializations. In the number of specialization fields, the EU is not even united, but the number of fields in the most advanced countries is around 43. The nature of the change is not merely a number of disciplines, and this is also the result of a complex discussion of the bill. And now I would like to remind you of the main benefits of the proposal. With regard to the requirement of stabilization of education, basic strains, specialization fields of specialization education of doctors, dentists and pharmacists and branches of superstructure education will be laid down directly by law. It will now be possible to obtain accreditation for education not only for the field as a whole, but also for training in the basic tribe for which the parameters are set to enable this accreditation to be obtained to the widest possible number of health service providers. This will make it easier for them to enter the system of education and will create a prerequisite to avoid unwanted exits of doctors from maternity centres, and will also reduce the procedure for granting accreditation. As another important positive of this amendment, I would like to highlight some other new things, which are, in particular, the definition of the trainer and its competence in the education system. The law gives the trainer the competence to determine the scope of the doctor's activities at different stages of specialisation training, to define the guarantor of the field, to define the professional supervision and professional supervision of the first doctor without the basic strain, and to the second doctor who has already completed the strain, to anchor the examinations after the basic strain. Furthermore, the rules for the course of specialisation training shall be specified, for which the duration of the medical profession which exceeds the weekly working time will not be counted. This so-called open training under specialisation education will take place at least to a minimum extent which will not be less than half of the prescribed weekly working time. At the same time, however, the proposal is to meet participants in specialization education on parental leave or caring for a child until the start of compulsory schooling, which will allow the pursuit of the profession to be included in the specialisation training in the range of one fifth of the weekly working time set, thereby aligning working and private life. Furthermore, persons on maternity or parental leave who are included in specialization education due to pediatrics will be credited to specialization education for a period of three months of care for their own child. As part of the discussion of the draft law, there was also a broad discussion on practical medicine for children and adolescents, which was one of the cornerstones of the discussion in the Senate as well. The purpose of the amendment to the law is to create one common educational field for the field of pediatrics. The current regulation on the division of education into two fields has no justification and has an unjustified burden on the professional movement of doctors' employers in this area, while at the same time not complying with the education standards of most EU countries. I would like to stress that the Institute of Registring Providers of Health Services, so-called A child's practice, it's preserved. Therefore, nothing will change in the outpatient care system. At this point, I might point out one thing that was highlighted in the Senate, where many senators thought that this proposal, which combines the field of practical medicine for children and adolescents and the field of pediatrics into one field, would somehow suck the practical physician for children and adolescents out of the field, but the opposite is true. He actually lets pediatricians from hospitals who in many ways, and believe me, from my own practice I know this very well, they don't want to serve anymore, they'd like to open up their ambulance and basically in this way we'll get more doctors in the field than there are today. I think that the proposed changes in the process of recognising fitness for the exercise of a medical profession in the application procedure, which are subject to doctors, dentists and pharmacists who have completed education in non-EU countries, are also very important for practice. The whole procedure will be tightened up. Aprobation exam will take place in the Czech language. The contents and conditions of professional practice will be defined in cooperation with the Czech Medical Chamber, the Czech Stomatological Chamber and the Czech Medical Chamber. The applicant will conduct professional practice at the workplace for this practice accredited and under direct supervision. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think this law will be a very good contribution to the development of further education of doctors, dentists and pharmacists in the Czech Republic, and I would be very happy if you would support it, because at this point we are actually standing before it is... I would like to say that at this moment the law has significant support for the medical faculties, the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně, which focuses 130 professional companies in its bowels or womb and also has quite decent support for young doctors. It is probably all known that, on the contrary, the Czech Medical Chamber has recently opposed this law, but I really believe that it will be better for this country and for the education of doctors, dentists and pharmacists if this law is adopted in this version, because it is moving things forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u3	Thank you, too. I'll read two apologies. Today, from 17 o'clock to the end of the day, for personal reasons, Mrs Květa Matušovská apologizes, and today, until the end of the day, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologises. I ask whether the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr David Kasal, wants to comment on the Senate resolution. It's not like that. I am opening the debate and registering several applications. First, Mr Leoš Heger will appear and Mr Rom Kostřica will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon again. I'm making an announcement that I'm going to be plating -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u5	Ambassador, I'm sorry. In the debate, Senator Milada Emmerová should be the first to speak. I'm gonna ask you to give her your word. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u6	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Chamber of Deputies, let me greet you and tell you how this bill, this eighth amendment, was discussed in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. At the meeting of the Senate's Health and Social Committee on 13 December, this proposal was discussed and for the first time, Minister Miloslav Ludvík, who did not translate this standard, was present. I want to stress that. It was already known that it was rejected by the constitutional committee that discussed this standard. The rapporteur was Senator Sušil, who asked me to also interpret the opinion from the constitutional committee here. Minister Miloslav Ludvík therefore took over this approved standard, as he eventually presented in his performance here, and was inclined to adopt it. Several amendments have been tabled, including a proposal for a specialization field of trauma, angiology and a practical physician for children and adolescents. The latter branch was not positively voted by the committee, and the following day, that is, 14. 12., the whole proposal has been tabled again for discussion. A motion for rejection appeared at the Senate plenary, from the mouth of Professor Žaloudík, and this was finally adopted by a vote after the close majority of the general debate, when the vote was 31 and the vote to approve the rejection was also 31. [[17,00 hours]] I personally gave the truth to the academic community, namely the Association of Medical Faculties, because their opinion is the result of their extensive and experienced knowledge as well as pedagogical experience. Their recommendation cannot be considered as a sort of group interest, unlike other individuals and associations with a medical focus. So today you will renegotiate your original version, which was sent to the Senate for discussion. And I suppose, given that the vote was smooth with you at the time, that this will happen today. This is also recommended by Minister Ludvík and I would say that all doctors and people who work in health care and know this issue. I just want to conclude by saying that this law has never been and will never be perfect, because endless criticism of its perfection does not contribute to many expertise, many doctors and many interest groups. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u7	Thank you, Senator Milada Emmerová. Good afternoon, honourable Members. We will, as has been announced, continue the debate that has just begun with the speech of the Senator by Mr Leoš Heger. A colleague of Rom Kostřica will be ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u8	Thank you again for the floor. And let me apologize to Senator Emmerová, through you, Mr Vice-President. It was my fault too that I didn't realize he was supposed to get off early. I wanted to say that the law on the education of doctors and other related professions has always been a problem, and the problem has only resulted in 2004 by adopting a law that was very well intended. He wanted to move the level of our doctoral education to higher efficiency, but his implementation failed. It was one of the last new laws to be passed to Parliament, and it lasted a very long time, and yet it failed. It's been amended several times over the past 13 years. The amendment that we have before us today, as Senator Emmerová has already mentioned, has been voted by the Chamber of Deputies by more than a constitutional majority of 131 votes. And then in the Senate, surprisingly, in December, the motion was rejected by a majority of one vote. What is currently hindering the adoption of the law is probably the structure of basic specialization disciplines, which should maintain a sufficiently wide range of individual fields and prevent atomization of medicine. While the other changes brought about by the amendment were quite reasonable consensus at the time when the law was being prepared. Even though the Czech Medical Chamber criticizes him today and in this field, I must say that I myself have tabled several amendments which have not been made in general, and I would imagine that the law could be better in detail. But I still believe, and I think very clearly that this law will bring progress. All that is good in him is briefly appointed by the Minister. So I'm going to limit myself to two things that I think are absolutely crucial. What doesn't matter is that the law legalizes the growth of competence of young doctors, and there are more and more of them during the five years of preparation for certification, the increasing competence and the ability to work independently, as it defines the law in the form of a definition of supervision and supervision, but also in the field where it empowers the trainers to gradually expand those competences according to the observation of the relevant young doctor, as the practice requires. The second thing I thought was extremely good is that the possibility of multi-stage accreditation is introduced. This means that smaller hospitals can now be very easily accredited for the basic tribe in the relevant field, which they are interested in teaching. This will widen the spectrum of workplaces where young doctors can go. If we were abroad, I will say quite clearly that young doctors will take advantage of the opportunity to start working, get a contract at a small workplace, and transfer to a higher workplace, whether a circuit hospital or a faculty hospital in half of their education. How will things work out in our environment, I don't know. It might take some time for this to develop. But young doctors should not be so advocated by the Czech Medical Chamber that the end of their studies is graduation and obtaining a medical degree, but that it is a study as complicated and difficult as medicine is, it must be extended to the next years and that they should arrange for certain family flexibility to be able to study at more hospital workplaces, because it will bring them a much wider perspective for life in the field they choose. The particular disagreement that arose and initiated the passionate debate in the Senate and the resulting opposition concerned the breakdown of the basic disciplines. Indeed, 33 basic fields were proposed in the original government proposal, i.e. 13 less than they have so far. This reduction in the number of fields would not be bad if the proposal were done really well so that it would be compatible with the practices that are in Europe when it has already violated some of our traditions that have evolved. And they have evolved very parallel to the European Statute, where the number of 43 disciplines, as proposed in our country, is absolutely, absolutely standard. What was the problem, I would just like to demonstrate briefly on the abolition of traditional disciplines introduced in Europe. This concerned, in particular, internal fields. And the paradox, which has occurred, that within the fields that are derived from the internship and are mostly basic, such as about ten disciplines, so the strongest two disciplines are cardiology and gastroenterology, what about the number of patients and the financial volume that is going on there. In which the field, which is derived from interna, cardiology, was still classified as the field of basic, while his sisterly, very similarly powerful field of gastroenterology was classified as the field of superstructure. This, of course, was felt very, very strongly by gastroenterologists and other fields affected by this, and they began to fight it and a very sharp discussion started, which ultimately led to the definition of 43 fields. [[17.10 hours]] By the way, one of the basics of why the law was to be amended was an attempt to shorten the test study. It has succeeded; it has been shortened to the minimums defined by the European directive for those disciplines that remain fundamental. But if the ten disciplines remain outside the primary fields, such as pneumology, the one who wants to become a pneumologist today is studying for about four, four and a half years, don't take it exactly seriously. But in the proposed initially government proposal, he would have to study five years, make a difficult test of the internship and then at least two more years to comply with the European directive, and to be recognised as a pneumologist in Europe, he would have to study at least two years. So that was why Members who are so dehonested by the Czech Medical Chamber, like soloists, who are doing some lobbyist pressure and a disgrace to the medical condition, this is what the rhetoric sounds like - so these Members have taken a very serious approach to the creation of an amendment that has been widely discussed and repeatedly revised with the help of the Ministry of Health. It is a proposal that seems entirely optimal in satisfying most of the fields that have protested. I merely point out that although I was quite involved in the preparation of the law, I was not the author of this amendment. This is just a compliment to the members of the government coalition who have been signed under it. Needless to say, there really is an atomization of medicine. There's a risk, but there aren't many of those disciplines, the basic ones. I have already said this, 43 basic disciplines are common in Europe, and most of the disciplines are in almost all European countries, as there is the current proposal that we will be voting on today. The problem was founded in 2004 when 83 fields arose. Even then they were in the law, then they only got into the decree and gradually were reduced to the current 43. But unfortunately, the remaining 40 remained as a specialization and their relationship to the competences of doctors is not very well defined, as long as the superstructure is based on the basic field, there is no definition of what a doctor can do, and what a doctor can do, and what a doctor who then studies the superstructure field can do. This, if the law passes, will be in the hands of the Ministry of Health, which has considerable executive powers to define the conditions and, above all, the spectrum of activities in the specialized superstructures, which should really be reserved only for exceptional activities that will not be taught in those basic fields in standard curriculum. So that's my appeal to the Ministry of Health to take up this role if the law passes. Otherwise, I repeat that I and many of my colleagues believe that this law will bring significant innovation to the present state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u9	I thank Mr Leoš Heger. Mr. Rom Kostřica will now have the floor, and Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Madam senator, Minister, I firmly believe that the law is appropriate, it is good, and I believe it will pass. However, there is one thing that absolutely clearly prevents me from raising my hand for this law, and that is the thing that we have been talking about here in the second and possibly in the third reading, and that is the recognition of a separate maxilophacial surgical strain. If we look away from the fact that it is basically ten, twelve, maybe fifteen doctors who are involved in this field, I think that this law essentially excludes the necessity of these doctors in their education to undergo basic training in clinics and workplaces of otorinolaryngology. For almost ten years, I have worked as Chairman of the Czech Medical Society for Otorinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, and I can tell you that I am not speaking from the air, but that I have a whole range of experiences of my own which justify me to do so. I believe that doctors who come very rarely to these serious oncological diseases, where it is the spread of the tumor process into deep and superficial cervical nodes outside their own area of dental surgery as such, do not get sufficient qualifications and erudists to be able to perform this procedure actually responsibly and for the benefit and well-being of the patient. For this reason, I consider this law to be vicious and reprehensible, and although I believe that the law as a whole is appropriate, I cannot raise my hand for this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u11	I thank Mr Rom Kostřic. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will now take the floor, Mr Bohuslav Svoboda will prepare. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u12	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I have already expressed myself here in detail during the second reading of the law, but now, when voting on the law returned to the Senate, I have once again reviewed the explanatory report. In the explanatory memorandum, there is a reference to a study attended by about 6,500 doctors who expressed some expectations, and these expectations were to be incorporated into the bill. Now I'm going to try to bilance a little bit. The bill had, or the doctor's requirements were to simplify the system of postgraduate education. Here I dare say, it's not entirely fulfilled. Education continues to be fragmented between eight medical faculties and the Institute of Postgraduate Doctors Education, including inclusion in fields and certifications. The amendment, which was to change at least in the minimum, was rejected. Reduction in number of fields - not met again. Of the 46 basic disciplines was the original proposal for a reduction of 33 disciplines, in the end it is in the proposal of 43 disciplines. Establishment of a truly staff-free field of maxilofacial surgery, elimination of basic fields of angiology, occupational medicine and traumatology. Also, the very problematic abolition of the field or the merger of the field by a practical physician for children and adolescents with the field of pediatrics cannot in any way be regarded as a reasonable reform. Thus, the atomization of postgraduate education continues. Shorten the period of education - fulfilled partially. In the draft law, there was a reduction in the period of specialisation education, but the period is defined as a minimum. This wording can therefore mean that the length of education can actually be longer. Simplify the accreditation system in education - fulfilled only partially again. Simplified only accreditation to the basic tribe, when in normal cases the Ministry of Health decides directly. Otherwise, there is generally an administratively extensive accreditation system for individual versions of educational programmes and no requirement has been made that all health service providers automatically meet the accreditation conditions for the basic tribe without further management. Simplifying funding for postgraduate training - not met again. It remains unchanged a very complex and administratively demanding system of residential places, which, moreover, favours only some fields of specialisation education. Therefore, the requirement for a general grant of postgraduate education was not incorporated, which would have a logical link to one education provider. In this way it would be possible to grant a grant on a flat-rate basis, i.e. participation in courses and internships would be free of charge for all applicants. The costs could be around 200 million a year, which is significantly less -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u13	Member, I would like to interrupt you - not only because I would like to arrange peace, but I would ask the president of coalition clubs or their representatives to get one of the ministers of the Government of the Czech Republic. I understand the Minister's been here a long time and he probably just had to go to the bathroom, but I'd like some... [[Here comes Minister Louis.]] I wasn't thinking about you, Minister. I was thinking about anyone in the government. I respect that the Rules of Procedure are rules of procedure. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u14	Yes, thank you. The cost would be about 200 miles. CZK annually, which is significantly less than planned expenditure on residential places where costs can gradually reach up to four times this amount. At the same time, the subsidy is far from applicable to all schoolchildren involved in specialization training. Each year in the draft budget is at least 500 million. The crown, but only a very small part runs out. Strengthening the supervisor's function - fulfilled only partially. The competence and responsibilities of the trainer have been partly strengthened in training in the fields of specialisation education, in the basic fields where supervision has been established within the core tribe and supervision in the framework of specialised training. In addition, the trainers or guarantors of the field are obliged to take part in the certification exams. However, as a lack of this measure, I see that this obligation does not concern the field of general practical medicine and practical pharmacies, as well as the fact that the institute of the trainer has not been implemented at all within the scope of the superstructure disciplines. The competence of doctors in the preparation of the basic tribe will therefore depend on doctors performing supervision and the responsibility of the trainer will be clearly given here. But I see as very problematic the powers of doctors from tribe to tribe, because there is only a reference to the implementing legislation that has not yet been put forward, and according to experience so far since 2004, its preparation will be a serious problem. I now want to ask the Minister a question or a few questions to follow up on his speech. I'd like to ask if we're missing more pediatricians in hospitals or practical doctors for children and adolescents in clinics. How this situation changes after the merger of both fields into one. Whether there are more doctors in hospitals or, on the contrary, in the ambulances of practices, or all doctors with part-time jobs in hospitals and territories at the same time. At the same time, I ask why the field of practical doctor for children and youth is combined with the educational field of pediatrics, and what will improve care for children in the Czech Republic. That's the question. And now, then, the conclusion from what I quoted here earlier. I believe that if we approve this law, which is a certain shift, let's say it has certain positives, but it does not solve all the problematic issues, then I believe that the situation will remain preserved for a very long time, at least one more term. This statement is based on the fact that, after the adoption of the law in 2004, we are only now, that is, after 12 years, getting to its amendment. Therefore, I cannot support the bill mainly because the current situation is preserved for at least four years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u15	I thank Mr Ludvík Hovorka. The words will be taken by Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. A colleague Jiří Štětina will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u16	Good late afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. The law we are discussing right now is a law that is absolutely fundamental to medicine. It's a law on how a young medical generation will grow up. The law has gone through extensive discussions, and like any such complex law, there are many pitfalls. Some of the pitfalls he solved, some of the pitfalls he didn't solve. But I would like to remind you that the education of doctors is changing. The extent of what they need to know changes, the skills they need to know change, and our law must count on that too, and we cannot live in captivity to the old idea of what the testimonial education looked like. We need to move on. Unlike my colleague Hovorka, who said the negatives here, I perceive the negatives, but I perceive mostly what's positive there. And a truly fundamental positive breakthrough is how this law takes care of trainers and their trainers. The link between the trainer and the trainer is essential. The responsibility for education must be in the hands of the doctor who raises. Our idea for the future is that the education programme will actually be in the hands of the trainer, because it must adapt the program to how capable the doctor is, how quickly he is learning. There are people who in surgery learn some performances over months, there are some who will never learn it. And the supervisor's responsibility for leading him to some skill is absolutely essential, and it's a groundbreaking treatment here. We've never had it before. The second thing that is groundbreaking there and it is essential that young doctors receive more and more qualifications during their education, but they are entitled to exercise it. He's a huge difference when something has to do under surveillance, in the presence of a trainer, something else is when it's at a range of 20. [[unintelligible]] That's completely different. And young doctors want nothing more than to be able to educate themselves relatively quickly, but also to have some competence and skills that they can do relatively soon. The whole system's been hacked by insurance companies. We raised doctors like that all the time. My professor just said, "You're gonna do it tomorrow." We can't do that today because the performance is reported against the insurance company, and that means the doctor is shut down. And it's worse in those little hospitals, 'cause there's just so much to know, the chief can't afford it. At the big clinic, if the untrained one is doing something and it's going to show up somehow, it's going to disappear smoothly in the Czech system. But it's lethal for small hospitals, because those doctors can't work, they come to our tests, and they don't actually have performances, they don't, just because they can't have them. The law also opens up the scope for funding to be linked to skills, to how it is done, and that is another crucial thing that will change very much in the future. Those are the reasons for which I consider the law to be good. I've got a big problem. The problem is, for example, practical medicine for children and adolescents. I was there when it was created as an independent branch. I was there when it developed. I believe that this is a way of performing a medical practice that is very beneficial for our children. I am convinced that it is needed, as is the need for practical medicine. After all, the practical doctors 50, 60 years ago were practical doctors from grandmother to parents to those little children. I can't do that tonight. Pediatrics isn't a small intern. It's just a different field. That's why I understand that it had to be separated. But I also understand that he should be the same field as a physician, so he should be a practical physician for children and adolescents. It's just because the activity is different. It has a different range. All it takes is for the penetration between pediatrics and a practical physician for children and adolescents to be relatively free. So that the pediatrician, after some time working at the hospital, decides he'll be doing the practice so he can do it in a relatively short period of time, with a clearly defined penzion of knowledge or knowledge that he needs to supplement. [[♪ when I'm ♪]] That would be meaningful. Because the moment we cancel as a major, that means that it's not going to be applied for by medical graduates. The offer for the field will get worse. It'll actually be an escape solution for those who don't want to be in that hospital anymore. I'm just convinced that's how it's gonna work. That's my big objection to the law. However, I decided to discuss this with a number of colleagues across the political spectrum that the benefits of this law are such that it should be supported, but that we will prepare and submit a novel that will return the field of practical medicine for children and youth to the postgraduate education system. It's not a complicated thing. I think we can agree on it, if it's a small unit that talks about it, what we need to add, we can make an argument about it, we can make sure that it is, or we can't. But I am convinced that if we open it this way, we will eliminate the biggest mistake that this law has and that it will return to the Czech countries something that I see as a very significant change against most health systems. It's impossible to say it's not anywhere. You have to say it's good or it's bad. And I'm convinced that it's good and that it should go back. That's my position. The opinion I presented to my club, the law itself, yes, and prepare a novel that will eliminate his greatest mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u17	I thank Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Now, Mr Jiří Štětina, duly applied for by Mr Rostislav Vyzula. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u18	Thanks again for the word. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Senator - no one else from the ministers - ladies and gentlemen, I must say that my fellow Svoboda has taken a lot of the words that I wanted to say here. But in the same way, the Minister helped me a lot, because what he said here, I totally agree with that. I don't have my speeches ready to read any lobbyist opinions, etc., but I'm based on experience. Maybe you remember when we started discussing this law, so I brought here the 1965 testimonial index, which I showed here was how simple it was in education, when we were in the field, when we knew that after a while, if the boss gave me permission, and every boss had a duty to check how the young doctor worked, and I note that for that kind of money no one would be working for today. I don't know if the docent still worked for eight crowns an hour. Well, she could, too. I have to say, we had a good system. We had a first-degree, second-degree test, we had an extension test, and we were then assigned to the fields of internal and surgical. And then, of course, it came out of that. I understand that we can't go back 55 years and say, "We're gonna have a location." Anyone who graduates will go there, go to the mountains, etcetera. I wouldn't want that. But if anyone thinks that this law will solve the lack of doctors, dentists, today even pharmacists in villages where no one wants to go, and that there will be an overpressure of doctors in Prague, then no law will prevent it. It's just an excuse for this law not to be. When I spoke to the law on drugs, I think that this law is just as much, perhaps more important than the law on medicine. Because if anyone tells us there's a shortage of doctors here, we know there's at least 53,000 registered doctors, or virtually. If anyone tells us that this law, if it passes, that our doctors will be leaving, will not leave us. Of course, whoever wants to, and that's exactly what my fellow Svoboda said, let them go abroad, learn and come back. In the meantime, of course, the financial situation will improve. But it mustn't be an excuse for the law not to be passed. I don't like a lot of things in this law either. For example, I do not like the fact that training will be conducted by some - where it is formulated - legal person established by the Ministry of Health. I just don't like it, because it's an option again - some people who want to privatize education again will get to the government, and in that morning the law gives them the opportunity. I've been used to the past that training does an institute for further education, or as they call it, ÚDL etc. It doesn't matter. It was an institution established by the Ministry of Health. I don't like it, but I'm just taking it. That's how it was approved. I think it's useless to say that because there's no institute for further education, I'm not voting for it. I don't like that there's 43 disciplines. It's a lot. But I think that when words come true, which my colleague Svoboda said, that the amendment will be prepared again as soon as possible, even though many people do not take it as the right course, I think that even this law can still be improved by the end of this parliamentary term. I don't like lobbyist pressure groups. I have the advantage of saying that I've been everywhere and I've done everything. When I was a young anesthesiologist and I couldn't do anything in 1969 because I came from the sanitary service, so I even have a certificate from preventive medicine, so I couldn't do anything, but three months later I had to serve at the University Hospital in Hradec Králové. Who was responsible for me? A senior or senior colleague who worked there for ten years, so he had a dog service with me. And I say again, he had it for free, and I thought it was because it was a surgical field, so I had eleven crowns for it. Not the eight crowns, only the poor interns had. Indeed, the education was tied to the fact that I wanted to learn it. When I didn't know anything, I knew that in Prague, Bullovka, there was a conductive anesthesia, so in 1978, of course I was sent to the faculty hospital with the permission of the chief, so I was sent to learn it. I learned it for a month, and after a month, I got a certificate to do it, and I spread it all over the East Bohemia region. Very simple, but it wasn't as difficult at all, I would say, for reasons of organization as it is today. What to say in conclusion. Once again, I would like us to approve this law, which health care simply cannot do without. I'm definitely not gonna hear that I'm getting text messages so I don't vote for it. Now I have to touch the Czech Medical Chamber a little bit, because I don't think that's how the medical chamber should behave. I say this with full responsibility because I founded a medical chamber in 1991. I was a member of the first board of directors, and I didn't know it was just gonna be a non-state organization, but it's gonna be an organization that's gonna be, in a way, coercive. That's all I want to say about her. I just don't like it. If the medical chamber came up with a bill proposal and said, "Look, we've prepared this bill that has, I don't know, thirty paragraphs, we're proposing that we have 20 disciplines, we're having a discussion with the faculties, we're having a discussion with the unions, etc., so it would be about something else. But I didn't see such a suggestion. Dear colleagues, let us be reasonable and want us to have a law on education, and let us work on it to improve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u19	I thank Mr Jiří Štětin. Before we go any further, there is a factual remark by Václav Votava, and before I give him my word, I will read the apology received from the hearing. From 5:30 to 19:00, Mr Antonín Seďa apologizes for working reasons, and Mrs Zelienková, for the remainder of the meeting day, for working reasons. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I do not wish to respond to Mr Štětina. Health issues aren't my thing. But I found out from the stew protocol, respectively. from the vote report that in the previous paragraph, which was an amendment to medicines, I am at the high level in the vote number 280, that I voted no, but my will to vote was yes. Of course, I do not question the whole vote, I would just like to correct the shadow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u21	I thank Mr Votav. We'll take that as a reminder for the tape screen. Now, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, Mr Vít Kaňkovský will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon again, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Senator, Minister. There's been a lot of talk here about why this happened, why the Senate rejected it, when we've been so careful about this issue. And I'd like to look at it from a different angle, especially from that angle of Senate rejection. I'm very sorry. And as I commended the senators here at the last point for the insurance of democracy, it doesn't seem like that at all. And I'm just gonna try to tell you briefly why the Senate has let me down in person. The Senate, by one vote, has already been said, rejected this amendment on the education of doctors, which we absolutely need. What Mr Hovorka says is that we cannot preserve it for four years... Well, we just can't preserve it for four years. This is an absolutely fundamental law that doctors expect. He was supposed to stabilise the whole system, simplify education and improve quality. Then how did this happen? The amendment first went to the Senate Constitutional Law Committee and there it was decided in ten minutes. Within ten minutes, the Constitutional Committee agreed to reject the proposal. And the only reason was that our proposal was supposedly twisted. Twisted how? As far as we know, we've been very careful about this. And the government proposal that originally came from the Ministry of Health was out of reality, it was unacceptable, it was unkind to young doctors, because it was actually their law - to keep us from going abroad. Therefore, a group of Members, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, has proposed a new comprehensive proposal with a commission that operates at the Ministry of Health and has submitted it to the Health Committee of the House for assessment. And after a thorough and extensive debate - we pushed the law three or four times from one meeting to another - we came to a conclusion before we approved the final version. Some may think it's twisted, but it's a legitimate intervention in legislation and it's a perfectly normal procedure for lawmaking. So what twist? That the form of the Czech Medical Chamber, which was actually in the original proposal, was not accepted, it may have seemed unacceptable to the Senate Constitutional Legal Committee. But as far as the medical chamber is concerned, he said it a little bit too Mr. Štětina, and I fully agree with him that the true purpose of the medical chamber is completely different from that of the trade unionist and coercive. Such an opinion is difficult to lean on because, moreover, the medical chamber is now dominated by a small group of people who rely on and use outpatient specialists, and I think that is not a good thing. Yes, you can tell - I'm also a doctor, why I didn't do something about it. It's a mistake. It's done. I didn't go to medical meetings either, unfortunately. Most doctors just don't go to those meetings, and that's where this select group of people came from. But then this proposal went to the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Senate. That's where he's been discussing for three hours. I think the debate was constructive. She was trying to put in hyperbaric medicine, put in angiology, she was trying to put in trauma. But at the end of the day, I think they've come to some opinion, and they've put the motion in plenary. And now we're talking more or less about the fact that it's actually all about the pressure of the medical chamber on senators to take her place. Let me give you an example that has not yet been set here. One suggestion was about the doctors of foreigners. The medical chamber made it absolutely demagogically that we claim that for the first year these doctors can work in a hospital without the nostrification of a diploma, even without the need for knowledge of the Czech language. On the contrary, it was quite clear in the law - and the rules were clarified in what form such a situation could occur. That's what they call it. Visiting professors who arrive at one performance will perform it and return to their country. So at that time the nostrification of performance is to be carried out and it is to be verified by Czech in these people? Total nonsense. However, the chamber insisted, and if not, she had a hysterical seizure. The Health Committee passed the proposal, as I said, in plenary and there was a debate. I happened to be in the Senate on December 14th, and I heard part of the discussion. Then I went through the entire screen recording of all the debaters, and I didn't actually hear much of those negative opinions. There was a lot of discussion about childhood medicine, pediatrics, but in the end it was about the fact that we here in the House were not supposed to have a thorough discussion. We spent hours and hours doing this. As I was saying, we've moved this from one committee meeting to another four times, and we've been discussing it here for hours. Well, I don't think that's a little discussed. Of course, there was also talk with other ingredients, with young doctors and professional companies. There was talk with the academics. Well, the senát seemed to, I don't understand, we didn't discuss the law enough. Another reason for this was that supposedly young doctors were lax about the proposal that we sent them and that the law did not solve anything and so on. It's typical demagogy again. Because who are the young doctors we're talking about? I didn't know it myself, but only later did I know that there was a so-called. association of young doctors. It's registered to 400 doctors, but sympathetic to 5,000. And against that is a group of five, please - five young doctors chosen by President Kubek in the medical chamber, and their opinion was the one I was talking about. On the other hand, the view of the association of young doctors was completely different and fundamentally disagreed with what the medical chamber proposed. So again, the intervention of the medical chamber is pretty much crucial in the Senate's decision. The medical chamber claimed and claims that the law is unnecessary because it does not reduce the excessive number of disciplines. Mr. Professor Heger has already spoken of this. Please, there are fields that have existed for years, such as gastroenterology, pulmonary, rheumatology, etc. We're supposed to cancel them now that they won't exist? How are we supposed to stand up to them? Czech medical company Jan Evangelista Purkyně has 130 fields, we now have 43 of them, the basic ones. In the European Union - and this has already been said - there is always a number of basic disciplines around 42. It is not possible, I beg you, for a doctor nowadays to put himself in the position of a so-called Renaissance physician back in the days of 200, 300 years ago when he had mastered internship, surgery, gynecology. Such a Renaissance physician doesn't really exist today. I certainly don't. I kind of understand internal medicine and oncology, I'm pretty satisfied, and I've got a lot of work to do. [[17.50 hours]] There was talk of atomizing medicine. But like I said, 43 disciplines are the minimum. Surely we can talk about whether what Professor Kostřica mentioned, maxilofacial surgery, that can be classified differently. Yes, a mistake just slips by. However, it is important that these 43 disciplines form a kind of basis, where the basic fields are the same as interna, surgery, and only after completion of the primary strain 30 months this doctor can do the mentioned gastroenterology, rheumatology, pulmonary and so on after passing the exam. So he's basically an intern, and that's all we can do about it right now. The medical chamber criticizes the fact that we are not reducing the length of specialization education. They themselves suggested in some cases seven years, we are talking about the possibility of completing education after five years, in all cases, sometimes at 4.5 years. So please, I think we're reading different pages. Furthermore, this amendment does not ensure the availability of education in the regions. They did not read the novel properly because regionality is mentioned there. A doctor in a given district in a given region can receive basic education. Most of all, I would like to point out that there is a whole range of good and good in the law. There is an acceptable number of basic disciplines. There's a trial after the base tribe after 30 months. The completion of education is possible after five years, i.e. not after seven or more. It's defined by the trainer, the relationship between the trainer and the trainer. That's very important. Professor Svoboda talked about it, and I think it's a certain nostalgia for us older people, as it used to be and what it meant to young doctors. [[There's a lot of noise and restlessness in the hall!]] There is, of course, regionality. So I see some consensus in the novel. And what is politics other than consensus? A small group of doctors at the head of the medical chamber influenced the Senate so much that the Senate completely rejected this version. And yet that small group of doctors doesn't respect or represent the majority of doctors who are probably about 40,000 today. No one knows exactly why, because the law that creates a register for doctors has been passed last year and only now does the register come true. Moreover, the medical chamber completely ignores the views of academics, deans of medical faculties. It also ignores the opinion of the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyn and the majority opinion of the very young doctors, with whom I have also repeatedly dealt. There's a lot of good in the novel. It's a consensus. It's not ideal. Yes, you can argue that it's not entirely ideal. It was also mentioned here. Yes, it isn't. We have to admit that. But what's ideal today? Are we perfect? Is life ideal? Is the doctor's life ideal when he has to decide every day whether to operate or not, and yet he knows that surgery can kill the patient, but on the other hand, can it help him much if it is of course successful? So it is not ideal, but I will still vote for our parliamentary amendment because it is a sound consensus. There are a number of good things in the novel, a number of good things, a number of things that will make education easier for young people, and that is why I think it is worth voting over the Senate proposal to refuse. And that's what I was gonna ask you to do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u23	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Vít Kaňkovský is enrolled in the general debate. Mr David Kasal will be ready. [[There's still a lot of noise in the hall!]] I will take one more second to read the apology of Mr Vojtěch Adam, who has been apologizing since 18 o'clock for medical reasons. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u24	Mr President, Madam Senator, Minister, dear colleagues, colleagues, as the debate today suggests, we have again reached the evergreen of this Chamber of Deputies, perhaps only the anti-smoking law in health legislation was even more extensive in the debate, namely the education of doctors. We have reached the conclusion of this rather unhappy game, which we have been experiencing around this law for several times. As has already been said here, at the beginning there was a very necessary and commendable intention to amend the law, which since the beginning, i.e. since 2004, has brought instability into the education of doctors, pharmacists and dentists, and the subsequent repeated changes in the sub-law standards have deepened this instability rather than corrected it. Unfortunately, the conflict of views of all existing groups of medical conditions has caused the proposal to become unacceptable to some groups of doctors during the legislative process initially widely accepted. It would certainly be worth asking why such a tense situation occurred when, in fact, all doctors across the disciplines call for the necessary changes to a very poorly functioning system of doctor education so far. Yes, it seems incomprehensible, but unfortunately it did. In my opinion, we must admit that the House approved the amendment to Act No. 95/2004 Coll. did not meet in a number of parameters the requirements we put on it and which Czech health care needs. That's a fact we should admit to ourselves. From this point of view, I understand the criticism of some doctors. On the other hand, and this has fallen, there are a number of provisions in this amendment, which are an undoubtedly positive step. Professor Vyzula and others mentioned it a lot. It is, for example, the anchoring of the examination after the basic strain, the adjustment of the competence of physicians after the basic strain, the legislative regulation of supervision and supervision of doctors with professional competence, i.e. untested doctors, the modification of the activities of accreditation committees. There are a number of positive changes in the present law, which has repeatedly been said here, and this must also be acknowledged. It is then very difficult to decide, in this situation, whether it is a greater risk to accept an imperfect novel in a number of views, and also whether we are able to prepare a perfect novel at all, I believe not, and to work in a short time frame to adjust the areas that this amendment has failed to resolve, or to reject the law and start from the very beginning. I have long been leaning towards the first option, i.e. to adopt at least changes that can solve at least some of the problems in the field of education and competence of doctors, pharmacists and dentists. However, after the state-of-the-art organization, the Czech Medical Chamber, launched a critical and incorrect campaign against this amendment in some respects, and when a larger part of the medical population rejects this amendment by its position, I have come to believe that it is unfortunate and risky for the system to approve the law that those who work with it and below it refuse. However, this does not in any way mean that I would agree, in substance, with all the points criticized by the Czech Medical Chamber. In this context, I would like to point out that I have been very sorry about the position and behaviour of the Czech Medical Chamber's leadership since the summer of last year and have become incomprehensible to me. And I am one of the longtime members, and I dare say that mostly loyal members of the Czech Medical Chamber. [[18.00 hours]] This professional organisation, representing all active doctors in our country, has resorted from a certain point of time to a negotiating table and the search for a reasonable and necessary compromise to a highly critical media campaign, the distribution of mass-stricken e-mails to all parties, etc. Even in a situation where the Chamber of Deputies approved the version of the amendment, which the Czech Medical Chamber so called. it did not smell, the Czech Medical Chamber had the opportunity to act at Senate level and try to achieve a law amendment to a compromise that would suit the Czech Medical Chamber. Instead, the leadership of the Czech Medical Chamber focused on one thing - to throw this law under the table. I consider this to be incorrect and especially short-sighted behavior, which expresses more the personal aversion of the leadership of the Czech Medical Association towards the management of the Ministry of Health or members of the Committee on Health and the struggle for the own competence of the management of the Czech Medical Chamber than just material reservations. I don't say it well, but it needs to be said here. At the same time, we could have had a novel on our table, which could be supported without any guaranty, at least with the basic effort of the Czech Medical Chamber to agree. Unfortunately, the management of the article chose an ultimative attitude and did not hesitate to use any means to enforce it. The impact is clear, the medical community, particularly in the regions, largely rejects this law and I believe that if we approve it against the will of doctors, we will only achieve that our hospitals will continue to depopulation and only further escalate the already tense personnel situation in our health care. Whatever the outcome of today's vote, there will be a wasted chance in many of us. Taste of the fact that the medical public could not agree on what system of doctor education is the right one for the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, none of the possible results of today's vote is good news for the Czech health sector. All the more so, however, we must not resign to solve the problem of medical education. In this context, I call on the public representatives of the Czech Medical Association to end the trench war and to come to a joint meeting as soon as possible with representatives of the Ministry of Health, professional companies and representatives of the Committee on Health, as initially discussed in this law. It is our duty to find a solution as soon as possible that the majority of the medical public will accept as a key to an effective and for young doctors friendly and safe education system for the Czech health care system. However, the trench war is not going to work. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Jiří Běhounek. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u26	Mr Vice-President, Minister, I listened very carefully to my colleague Kaňkovský. My friends, I really don't understand this anymore. For 12 years, it has been said that the 2004 law needs to be redesigned, amended. When he finally starts working on it, we're gonna tear something apart by hypocritical attitudes and substitute problems. I see as crazy that most doctors refuse. But this is most doctors who are not involved - those who are already educated! And those young people who have to leave for eight or ten months, that's not what we're asking. I think that if there are opinions that we are able to resolve this law by agreement, I guarantee you that we have demonstrated precisely that we are not! Don't be illusioned that something will come to the negotiating table. That was an option. There was a great effort across all the structures involved in the education of young doctors to get together. I'm bohužel so. I believe this situation won't take another 12 years to get to another solution. And if one of you lives in the belief that not adopting the law will suddenly become pink, everyone will hug and create a new law that will be consensual, then you are in a big mistake. We significantly harm Czech health care if we do not accept the law!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As another with a proper application, Mr David Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u28	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to speak here in principle in such a double role, as I am one of the petitioners, at the same time as I was rapporteur for the Health Committee and the Guarantee Committee. I must start at the beginning with the words of my colleague - through Mr President - Mr Běhounek, that I did not understand my previous speaker either. Because if, on the one hand, he says that the medical chamber has brutally influenced both the Senate and the House and the public opinion, which I will subsequently document, I do not understand why they do not want to support it. I wanted to start by thanking both the Ministry and, in particular, the Minister and colleagues from the opposition who made it clear here that they had some reservations about the amendment, because, to say in the first place, it was an incredible task for us to put the amendment together, because the players who wanted to influence the amendment and wanted to put different things in it were a large number. It wasn't just professional societies, it was young doctors, it was the Medical Union Club, it was the Czech Medical Chamber at first, but in order for consensus to occur, everyone had to give in in some way. And I have to say that after the two-year work I've done, I have to say that something that is not, as it was said here, absolutely perfect, but what guarantees young doctors basic changes in the system. I will not repeat them, many colleagues here have said them, but the fact that the doctor is in the field and knows exactly where he will be tested, who will be tested, how long it will take, that after the test, which will be after 2.5 years, he will have competence, and we have even included there that he will have competence before the test, that it will not just be called. it's gonna be people who go to a specific facility after college, and if they're capable enough to handle an adaptation process that can last two or three months or even two or three years for someone, then they can be more taken into the department, whether it's surgery or emergency services, because the person who's in medicine is learning the most by being in practice that he's allowed to work under the supervision of a doctor. As far as the law itself is concerned, how it was going. Short recap. The beginning of the work began in autumn 2014, when an expert group of about 30 people was established, who meant something in health care. It was progressing strictly democratically. She was there, I submit, and the medical chamber, and everyone could say their thoughts. This group has always voted in favour of a given group of problems that has been closed and progressed further. In February 2015, we handed over the finished material to the Ministry of Health, and at that time the major intervention of the medical chamber was that the law went cold. It was recalled, and at that time the medical chamber wanted to do interventions in it that were incompatible with the spirit of the law, that is, did not correspond to the foundations, the connection to the European Union. There were a number of things that would complicate our young colleagues' relationship with abroad. After a year of editing the reminiscent version of the medical chamber, this version went to the government. At that point, it was made clear, and the chairman of the Health Committee has already said that it was not acceptable for a number of reasons. [[18.10 hours]] That is why a parliamentary initiative was created, which added the necessary changes to the original material, so that district hospitals and small facilities could fit in and be practically applicable to the health care of our Republic. The result was that the Czech Medical Chamber responded in the summer, because Section 22 was also part of the law, which ensured that doctors would also be educated by district, practical and specialists. There was a huge reaction that we didn't understand either, because the medical chamber always said that it wanted quality health care and quality doctors and educated doctors. At that time, in order not to bury Law 95, we retreated as petitioners and released this paragraph from the law. However, I must say that it was the only last contact of the medical chamber with me as a petitioner and with the rapporteur for the second, third reading here in the House. After that, the medical chamber did not respond and offered any further solutions or negotiations and began to proceed as previous colleagues said. Konsenzus was not only in the working group and in the health committee, but, as has been said here, representatives of the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyně participated in this as well as associations of medical faculties and deans of individual medical faculties, who certainly have great experience in the education of our young colleagues. Allow me to mention the practical doctors for children and adolescents. I may feel a bit of a conflict of interest because I am a pediatrician, but I must say the following, and maybe I will answer through Mr Hovorka. The change is simply really because there's only one pediatrician. It's one field that has several subgroups. It's interesting that in pediatrics, not only are practical doctors, but you have children's cardiology, child's endocrinology, child's nephrology. None of these colleagues have heard from us. Only the practical doctors have heard from us. And as for the fullness or incompleteness of our hospitals, let me give you a specific example. If both fields were to remain divided, then one particular doctor who joined me would have a big problem because she started training on PLDD, but in the meantime she fulfilled her mother's duties and she was born a child who unfortunately has an autistic spectrum disorder. At that point she cannot exercise the field of practical physician for the child and youth, because there should be a doctor constantly available. She needed a job where she would have a part-time job, where she would have some specific time, where she would be able to attend to both her patients and her sick daughter. The current system would block it. Another reason, and here it has also been said: I, as the primary with 20 years of experience, am not educated enough to treat our children in the field. So, according to the current rules, I would have to have a year's education - not a course, but a year's education - to treat children who come to my hospital. I think there's a basic misunderstand in that there's only one child patient. He has the same disease, whether he's being treated outpatiently or being treated in a medical facility. And it's just a misconception that we're talking really about the education of doctors here, and we're definitely not having any outpatient treatment here. I would like to say that even before 2004, when there was one major, practical physicians for children and adolescents, or outpatient care for children, were already there. As far as the Senate amendment hearing is concerned, here and here in the Senate. I think, and so it was said here that a lot of us, I touched it here too, focused only on the practical doctors for children and youth. I think it's a big mistake, because the law doesn't just deal with this group. But take it that over a thousand graduates leave medical schools every year, and they're certainly not all pediatricians. Here we are also talking about other fields that need to have proper procedures in how they will be educated. In the beginning it was a really difficult task to put together a number of things, a number of groups that will respect the agreed amendment of the law. Despite all the shortcomings that he has, which I know of of course, I am saying that this amendment to the law has a major impact on our health care and will encourage our doctors to stay with us. However, I want to say that this is not just about the amendment to the Education Act. We have to - and it's not just about the money. If our health care is as bureaucratic as it is, if relationships aren't better, we can't keep young doctors here. And just in conclusion, I would like to say one thing that has also been criticised here that implementing decrees are not prepared. The list of implementing decrees is already available. It will, of course, follow the law itself if it is approved. And there's an agreement that we'll continue to work on other disciplines that will be superstructure. Finally, I would like to ask you all, from the left or right, to support this amendment of the law, because it is strictly necessary for our health care. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will respond with a factual remark. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u30	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, I would just like to remind you of my questions which I have asked. This means, I would like to know whether there is currently a greater shortage of children's doctors, pediatricians, hospitals, or in the field of practical doctors for children and adolescents. And how do you think this situation will change after the merger of both fields? If there are more doctors in hospitals or more doctors in the field, or if it's part-time, that means working doctors in hospitals and in the field at the same time. And how do you think it will change, whether it will improve or make the care of children worse in the Czech Republic after this change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u31	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. At this point, we don't have another one registered for the debate. I'm asking if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. If not, I am done with the debate. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. With priority rights, Mr. President Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u32	I'd like to request a 10-minute recess for a club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u33	I'm sorry again, I must, of course, allow the final words if there is any interest. Don't let me jump you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u34	I've taken it so far that there's no interest in final words. I'd like that recess before the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u35	Is there any interest in the final words - Minister, Senator, are you interested? In that case, break until 6:29 p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u36	It is 18.29, we will continue the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I will ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to take your seats and keep your voice down. I would remind you that the debate on this point has been closed. Neither the appellant nor the rapporteur has made use of their final words, and we will now proceed to the vote under Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'm registering the check-out request. So I'm going to check you all out and ask you to re-engage. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed. I'm gonna ask you to set up the necessary kvora. Thank you. I will now make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 95/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising professional qualifications and specialised qualifications for the pursuit of the medical profession of a doctor, dentist and pharmacist, as amended by the House of Press 723/7." I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 281, for 124, versus 17. The motion was accepted. I state that the bill has been passed. Thank you, everyone. [[Weak applause from the left.]] We'll continue with the next point. We have no open debate. Yes, to the vote, Mr Huml. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u37	I presume I'm not questioning the vote, but I'm on a high note that I've been delayed, but I voted yes. Just for the stew. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u38	Thank you, too. Next - Mr. Kostřica. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u39	Me, too, please, for the tape screen. I'm on drugs, yes, but I voted no. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-003-008.u40	Thank you. I'm opening another point. This point is
