ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u1	33. Members' proposal by Zbyněk Stanjura, Andrej Babiš, Martin Plíšek, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Bělobrádek, Roman Sklenák and Pavel Kováčik to issue a law amending Act No. 301/1992 Coll., on the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic and the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 1089/ - second reading prosit refer to Mr Zbyněk Stanjura as the appellant. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The committee resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 1089/2, and I will therefore ask the rapporteur of the economic committee of Mr Martin Kolovratník to take his place at the rapporteur's table. I will now ask Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's representatives to present the press presented at second reading. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u2	Thank you for the floor, I'll be very brief. I gave the main arguments on behalf of a group of petitioners, on behalf of a group of Members, in the first reading. I took part in the negotiations on the Economic Committee. We have also responded to some of the Government's legislative technical reservations. I have prepared an amendment which addresses these legislative technical problems, and then I will sign up to it in a detailed debate. So many opening words in second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u3	Thank you and I will now ask the rapporteur of the Economic Committee of Mr Martin Kolovratník to inform us about the committee's discussion and to justify any amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u4	Thank you for the floor. Have a good afternoon and I therefore come before you as rapporteur and chairman of the Economic Committee. We've been discussing this material, it's been quite a few weeks back, 31 May 2017. The Economic Committee adopted Resolution 397 and I can say that there was strong, very strong support for this material, i.e. recommendations, for the Economic Committee. In this sense, the resolution of the Economic Committee is also formulated, which recommends that the Chambers of Deputies discuss and approve the House press 1089 as amended by the Parliamentary Bill. So much for me as rapporteur in this introductory word. I note that we have received three amendments to this material, the House press, until now. From the information I have found, the first of them, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, at the same time the translator, he probably comments on it himself, it is rather legislative technical regulation, as I understand. The other two amendments from Petr Kudela, where we agreed, it is a technical mistake, a mistake that one material has been doubled twice, and the Member has already entered into the debate, so he himself comments on the content of his amendment. And I am also reporting to the general debate here, because I want to comment on both the substance of this matter and Mr Kudela's amendment and my argument. So much for the opening word of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I'm asking if you want to take advantage of your priority right in the debate. No. In that case, Mr Petr Kudela is the first registered member. And, Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u6	I wish you a wonderful afternoon, Mr President, honourable members of the government, ladies and gentlemen. We are discussing a parliamentary proposal to issue a law amending the Act on the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic and the Agricultural Chamber of the Czech Republic, as amended, House press 1089, we are at second reading. It is an initiative of the Economic and Agricultural Chamber. This legislation introduces into the rule of law an obligation for the State to declare, in separate annexes to the legislation, an overview of the obligations arising for users of the law, the administrative provisions published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and also declared otherwise. Typically, they're municipal decrees. At the same time, the right is created for users of the law, especially for entrepreneurs, so that they can obtain a comprehensive overview of the obligations for them under all the published legislation in one information system operated by the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic. [[16.30 hours]] According to the appellants and submitters, this legislation will lead, in addition to the above, to an increase in quality, clarity, clarification and coherence of the legal order of the Czech Republic in the long term. The need for a publication of an overview of the obligations will lead to the introduction of self-regulation principles in lawmaking, where the applicant or the applicant respectively. The legislature will have to clearly identify the scope of the obligations arising from the legislation in question, the legal consequences of non-compliance and, at the same time, the authority which is entitled to enforce the obligations on behalf of the State. The introduction of this system will also reveal inaccuracies in the legal order and identify duplication of legislation for specific legal relations, etc. According to the petitioners, their ambition is to gain two advantages. First, so that everyone knows what obligations they have to fulfil, so that it is in a separate annex and it was clear who enforces these obligations across the state. And the second effect could be that those who make amendments to laws or new laws realize what all new obligations they impose on those who are to fulfill them. I would like to point out that according to Act 309 of 11 November 1999 on the Collection of Laws and Collections of International Treaties, it is said in Section 10 that the Collection of Laws and Collections of International Contracts is provided by the Ministry of the Interior and provided in a remote way. A total of seven amendments have been adopted since 1999. The last one is an amendment led as Law No. 222 of 15 June 2016. So if this new bill is to contribute to identifying duplication of legislation, I would point out that it itself is largely duplicated without being mentioned anywhere in the explanatory report or in the report by the petitioner about who mentioned it. Only the dry matter is stored by operators of Collections of Laws and Collections of International Contracts via the interface to transmit to the Chamber of Commerce supporting the management of the new information system. Moreover, this is happening - I quote from the explanatory memorandum - indirectly by amending Act No. 222/2016. When we arrived in the House and at the initial trainings, the lawyers put it on our hearts that indirect amendments were politely said wrong. And you know that today even very high judicial authorities say that our legal order is so inconspicuous that it's hard to navigate - I quote one of the petitioners. Here I ask what the high judicial authorities say about the desire to introduce a new concept into legal practice by this legislative proposal. In addition to its own text, in addition to the explanatory report, a new obligation will be introduced, an overview of the obligations of entrepreneurs. Here I could quote the whole of the newly proposed section 20, where it is quoted how the Chamber of Commerce manages the legal electronic system for entrepreneurs, in which reports of obligations and other information resulting from the legislation of the Czech Republic and the obligations arising from the regulations of the European Parliament and of the Council of Europe are kept and published. The proposer of the legislation is obliged to process, in a separate annex to the draft legislation, an overview of the obligations of entrepreneurs arising from the proposed legislation or legislation, which is amended or supplemented by the legislation. - Then I could quote the second paragraph of this Paragraph 20. And here I ask: So the House will approve the text of the law and will also approve the list of businessmen's obligations? Or will this list be added? I ask what happens when an overview of the obligations of entrepreneurs is not entirely in accordance with the content of the law. Will this not, on the contrary, be the subject of disputes and interpretations? An overview of the obligations for entrepreneurs - I can imagine that will be accepted by our House. But I miss the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. However, I cannot well imagine who, how and after who will have the obligations arising from the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union. In his report, the petitioner specified how much small, medium and large enterprises spend annually on legal services. I could quote the whole thing. In the sum, it is estimated that more than 43 billion are spent annually on administrative counseling for entrepreneurs to be oriented. Crowns. And this is a chance to simplify it for them, how to significantly reduce these costs so that they can invest the money they saved in their employees' wages or technological or other equipment. I do not doubt that this estimate of costs in enterprises is possible. I have experience working in private companies and with private companies, and I know that legal services are ordering for more complex things that go beyond the legal consciousness of entrepreneurs or their teams. And we're not going to change that approach with the best list of responsibilities. The government gave this House press a neutral position, even though it had 19 comments on it. The comments were in particular from the point of view of non-compliance with the Constitution. The Parliamentary Institute has assessed the proposal - the proposed regulation is partly compatible with European Union law. For me as a layman, it follows that the proposed regulation is partly incompatible with the law of the European Union and is contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. At first reading, the representative of the petitioners expressed his conviction that the economic committee would deal with this and that they would take into account the Government's position during the course of the discussion. On the Economic Committee, I may have drawn close attention to the financial difficulties and the fact that this is only a way to draw money out of the state budget. Colleague Šrámek asked why this system is being run by the Chamber of Commerce and why not another - the Agrarian or other chamber. A representative of the petitioners paused on our performance by saying that we probably didn't read it. I therefore refer to the text of the explanatory memorandum in section RIA - third paragraph - Aggregated effects of the bill, paragraph 3.1. Impacts on the state budget and other public budgets. The impact on the state budget and other public budgets is envisaged. In relation to the state budget, expenditure of 96 million is expected. CZK for five years, i.e. a total of 480 miles. Crowns. At the level of territorial budgets, an annual expenditure of 564 390 thousand is foreseen for a period of six years. Crowns. I believe it's just a guess, but it's pretty high. Part of these state budget expenditures can be used to cover similar costs incurred by the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic if it performs relevant professional work instead of central government bodies. Similarly, part of the expenditure on territorial budgets may be reduced, respectively. Transferred to the State Budget if the Chamber of Commerce does the relevant professional work instead of the authorities of the local authorities. - I'm still quoting from the explanatory note. [[16.40 hours]] At the same time, there will be savings in public budgets of CZK 1,260 million for seven thousand public authorities each year, by saving the cost of part-time legal specialists of the public authority of CZK 15,000 per month. CZK 15,000 a month for seven thousand public authorities. That's what I want to see. I also want to know who's gonna pay for it if this save-and-saver doesn't happen. There was no timetable for the submission of amendments at the Economic Committee against Invitation. In addition, during the discussion, some Members rushed forward with proposals on how to move this material without second reading to the Economic Committee directly at the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies. Colleague Kolovratník let me quote - so thank you, my contribution, I will clearly support this proposal in the role of both the rapporteur and the Member of the Economic Committee, I can advise the petitioners or the representatives of the petitioners, and I can promise to sweat the blood for making it, I like the proposal. [[unintelligible]] I will quote freely - he also likes the system demo. The resolution of the Economic Committee, as quoted by Mr Kolovratník, that the Economic Committee recommends to the Chamber of Deputies to adopt this bill in its form, voted 10 Members in favour, Kudela opposed. So that I do not owe anything to work on this House of the Press, I will propose an amendment in a detailed debate. I don't have the ambition or the power to correct all 19 criticisms of the government. Only if the bill should be passed, so I suggest we hear some of the government's criticisms. To this legal standard, I must say that the Ministry of Interior is proceeding under Act 309 of 11 November 1999. He runs a collection of laws and international treaties, but in my opinion, the wolf eats and the goat stays whole or by another analogy from our colleagues from Slovakia, oh, my God, just daj ľahko. I would like to conclude by saying that I like the idea of the coherence of legislation. However, I regret that the Ministry of the Interior has been neglecting this area for a long time - I have long-term fattened the word and underlined it five times - in the long term. However, I question this form and the procedure chosen. However, I also believe that, as a private project, the Chamber of Commerce could operate such a service to its members, and that it does not need the law to do so. In a detailed debate, I signed up for amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u7	I thank Mr Petr Kudel. We now have two priority rights - the rapporteur and the Minister of Justice. The Minister of Justice now has priority rights. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u8	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to join the warning vote that is being expressed here in the light of this proposal. I understand the good intentions behind him, but it's a road to hell that's paved with good intentions. And this is exactly the case. Mr Kudela has already mentioned that the proposal creates duplicates. But he's basically a duplicate of himself. In order for you to understand, I have to say three sentences from the theory of law, like three. What's the law? The law is a set of standards. What's a standard? The standard is the imposition of an obligation when fulfilling some hypothesis, which means that there is nothing in the law but a set of obligations. So when it is said that the law is annexed to the law to be a list of obligations imposed by the law, it is said that the law is attached to it, because if there is anything other than an obligation in the law, it has nothing to do with it. I believe that you will certainly think about this and that we will not accept the law that would be imposed to be annexed to the laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u9	Thank you, Minister of Justice. And now with priority rights in the general debate, the rapporteur. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u10	Well, from me to the previous speakers now. I'll take it backwards in the timeline. Minister Pelikán says the law is to be annexed to the law. Well, I certainly don't get it. We say in the amendment, in the proposal that there should be a single standardized table attached to the law, or maybe some uniform overview of what has changed, what the standard has shifted, changed or repealed, not some law. But with all due respect, I'm not a lawyer, I don't want to engage in a debate on the theory of law. And I'm going to lean towards the substance that we're talking about. And now I am fluent in addressing my colleague Kudela and admit that I do not understand his argument very well and that I do not understand it. Although I could thank him for quoting my speech on the Economic Committee under which I sign and insist on it, namely that I will support this proposal and that I like it. For the rest of you who have not been interested in this issue in detail, in a nutshell it is, we say, we are proposing that we gradually move forward in the whole legislative process, and I recognise this, in a relatively revolutionary way, to a whole new form, or a new form of adoption of laws. As you are accustomed to here in the House at present, when you submit, whether the draft amendment or the amendment is an automatic part of the explanatory memorandum. And what's being made up here, the structure that's being prepared here, is that besides the explanatory note, the actual mandatory annex will be the standardized single table, which will show what's changing, what's growing new or what's ending in the bill because of the amendment. This whole should be managed by the already mentioned Chamber of Commerce using a database, using software. And when you talk about something, it's good to see it. And I don't mean that at the moment, but I don't know, and I'm asking if Kudela's colleague saw the demo system, the demo. This needs to be seen how it works, what an amazing service for entrepreneurs, for Czech companies, of course also foreign, but for small, large, medium companies, how great a service it will be. And the explanatory note really says we're assuming some kind of savings. As is the case everywhere, it can only be an estimate where we can assume that public authorities, public institutions, thanks to this service, will no longer have such claims for legal services, either external or so-called in house. But I repeat, my position is and will continue to be consistently positive. But what is important to realize is such a message, or such a message for our successors, for other legislators, it will be more difficult here in the House, because if you imagine that one of you or our successors will prepare a new parliamentary bill, so colleagues and colleagues, yes, we will have that obligation to fill out the table, respectively. our successors. It's gonna be a new obligation in lawmaking. So, frankly, we can say that we are going to do a little bit of work for ourselves, too, if this proposal is adopted. [[16.50 hours]] On the other hand, please, colleagues and colleagues, hand to heart. You know how good the legislative process and proposals that come out of the House are sometimes, and maybe this will also be an instrument that will make many of us or our successors think better about their ideas and suggestions and better work them out and prepare them. And I think it is for the good of the Czech Republic and the rule of law in the Czech Republic. So, bottom line, I support the proposal in the form it is, I beg you, and I will beg both on the Economic Committee and on the third reading for its support, and, on the contrary, I will speak in favour of rejecting Mr Kudela's amendment. And perhaps I can still use this space from my position on the Economic Committee. I am aware that we have a meeting of the Economic Committee called for tomorrow, so we would also add this item to the agenda tomorrow and discuss it in such a way that it is prepared for the third reading at the September 60th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u11	I thank the rapporteur, but in the role of the general debate, Mr Martin Kolovratník. We also have Mr Pavel Kováčik's factual comment. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to address the doubts that the previous speaker has said about the quality of some of the laws that leave this House. If someone from the opposition, who has fewer votes than the government coalition, had said so and could not completely influence the outcome leaving this Chamber of Deputies, it would still be understandable. But Kolovratník is part of a very strong government party and can therefore influence it, and so if he left this House in his opinion one of the weaker pieces, then it is his fault too, and I would like him to confess to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. This was the last one entered into the general debate. Before we go any further, I will read the apology received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Andrej Babiš apologises from 16.30 and further apologizes from 16.15 to Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel. If no one signs up for a general debate, I am ending the debate. Perhaps there is no interest in the final words from either the appellants' representative or the rapporteur's representative, and I can open the debate in detail. I have Mr. Petr Kudela's application for this. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u14	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring to the amendments that I have read into the system under the number of House document 6657, and I ask that they be discussed in the third reading. Recitals: The proposed amendments aim to introduce the text of the proposed Act with Act No. 222/2016 Coll., on the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and on the Creation of Laws published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties, and other laws with which the parliamentary proposal is contrary. The whole justification, about four pages, is part of the amendment. As a second proposal, I propose that this proposal be rejected at third reading and I ask that it be voted on at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u15	Thank you. Now in a detailed debate, Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u16	Thank you. I want to assure Mr Kudela that he does not have to beg; all amendments must be voted on at third reading; there is no other way. I want to formally sign up for my amendment, which is set out in the system under number 6629. It contains four legislative technical adaptations, I think it is not necessary to read them. If I need to read them... [[Not if it's in the system.]] It's in the system, there's a reason. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-020-033.u17	Who else in the detailed debate? If no one else, in that case, I can end the debate in detail, ask if there is any interest in the final speeches. It's not like that. The only procedural proposal fell, but it was voted at the beginning of the third reading, which the rapporteur certainly noted. This concludes the second reading of this bill, press 1089, paragraph 33. We will continue under the approved agenda adjourned by the item
