ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u1	2. The draft law amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on the conservation of nature and landscape, as amended /house print 501/6/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 501/7. I welcome with us Senator Jitka Seitlová, possibly other authorized senators. I ask that the Minister of the Environment, Richard Brabec, speak for the appellants for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. But, honourable Members, honourable Members of the Government, I am telling you that in a few moments, Mr Miloš Zeman will be visiting our meeting hall of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I would like to inform you that Mr Miloš Zeman will be visiting our meeting hall of the President of the Republic in a few moments. [[They're becoming present. At the sound of the fanfare from Libuše, Czech President Miloš Zeman enters.]] Dear guests, allow me to welcome the President of the Republic of Mr Miloš Zeman and give him the floor. Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u3	Mr President of the Chamber of Deputies, honourable Members of the Government, honourable fellow Members, I come before you to support the Senate version of the draft law on the conservation of nature and landscape, which is generally referred to as the National Parks Act. I can't be suspected of loving the Senate. But I never cared who said what, but who said what. And on the basis of the information that I have had available for a very long time for more than ten years, I would like to introduce you to my position and, of course, leave your decision as to whether this information will affect your decisions. [[16.10 hours]] Let me start by not seeing any reason why there should be a special set of laws on individual national parks. I consider it perfectly natural that national parks and their operating rules will be regulated by the same bill, but since practically 100 percent of the debate on this law concerns the Šumava National Park, let me focus on this issue. A week ago, I returned from a visit to the Hradec Králové Region, on whose territory, as you know, is the Krkonoše National Park. I have not met with any critical remark about the management of this national park, and I have not met - except perhaps with the exception of a minor conflict concerning the cable car to Sněžka - with the fact that there are conflicts between the municipalities and the Krkonoše National Park, so I ask myself a very simple question: why, when we are dealing with the issue of national parks in general, we are always and everywhere focusing only on the Šumava National Park. I will try to offer you my answer, but I will say this answer at the end, not at the beginning. More than ten years ago, I was asked by a group of my friends to help solve the Šumava issue, because these friends thought - and I think they thought rightly - that Šumava was being destroyed by green fanatics. I deliberately say green fanatics, not ecological fanatics, because at least environmentalists know what biomass is. Well, I studied not tens, but hundreds, and over the past ten years it will be thousands of pages, by the way, constantly increasing, so I handed over the last fifty of them to the Minister of the Environment a week ago, and so I became a victim of information pressure instead of succumbing to impressions, succumbing to emotions and instead of careful study of technical papers listening to the views of journalists who write about something else every day without understanding anything, or the opinions of some representatives of the so-called cultural front who want to become visible and who say what they consider popular. Let me start from the beginning. About ten years ago, with my sore feet, I climbed seven kilometers to Lake Bald together with a few dozen of my friends, including two former environmental ministers, paradoxically one of them from social democracy, Miloš Kužvart, and the other from the Civil Democratic Party, František Benda. They both came with me to protest the destruction of Sumava nature. Besides, I flew along with the TV. Prima chopper over the vast areas of the dry Bohemian forests. These are at least 60,000 beautiful trees. Colleagues and colleagues, when someone cuts out the alley, they become the subject of criticism. If someone destroys 60,000 trees, nothing will happen to the Bursík. Think about it. Well, among other things, I met with almost all the mayors of the Šumava communities several times. And among other things, I remember meeting with the then mayor of Lipno, who asked me, "How is it possible that you prosper, how is it possible that you have ski slopes, lifts, now even the longest roller coaster in Europe has been added after the frozen surface of the Lipno dam, how is all this possible?" he replied: "The main reason is that Lipno is not in the territory of the Sumava National Park. " So I thought and began to think about sine ira et studio without being preoccupied with any version of the dispute that is taking place here today in this Chamber of Deputies. And I started from the beginning. God, how hard it is and how easy it is to read one newspaper article and stand firm. The history of Šumava and Šumava forests is several hundred years old. They were economic forests, Schwarzenberg forests. They were forests that were unfortunately spruce monocultures. And I myself believe, in the interests of environmental protection, that it would be better if this monoculture gradually supplemented with mixed growth, but we are not discussing this primarily now, because it is a matter for decades and decades. These farming forests were used for logging and wood processing. Significant industrial buildings were created, such as: Schwarzenberg's navigation channel. Well, what happened? While in the Šumava foothills and in Šumava alone there were wood processing plants, raw wood is now exported to Austria or Germany. [[16.20 hours]] There was a woodworking factory in Volare. Do you know what's in there today? Solar power plant. I understand that in the Sumava foothills, the number of sunny days is so high that solar power plants pay off, especially when, as I pointed out in my speech on the budget, the solar energy subsidy is 15 times higher than the subsidy, or rather the market price of normal power electricity. Well, in Sumava, saws were lost, wood-processing businesses were destroyed. If we want to bring furniture, we import it from Finland instead of making it ourselves. And then we're surprised that 30 percent of the population left the Šumava communities, such as Nové Pece. Thirty percent of the population, mostly young people. But let's get back to the beginning. There are monastery forests on the Austrian side of the border. And in these monastery woods, there's no barking. Why is he raging and raging on the Czech side? The explanation is simple, but many of you will rebel. There were three tall spruces on one of the Šumava ridges. These three drenched spruces were attacked by the crust. For centuries, it has been customary in the farm woods that when the tree was attacked by bark, the bark was cut down, the bark was peeled, the bark burned and the wood was taken away. Sometimes it was even resonance wood, quality wood. That was so-called good practice. But then, under the reign of Martin Bursík, a friend of the crust beetle, as he himself marked, these three drunken spruces were chained to three no less drab girls from the Rainbow Movement. [[Unique Laughter from the Right]] And when the lumberjacks came, these girls defended the lumberjacks to cut down these trees. And instead of being cut by these lumberjacks -- sorry, I mean the trees, of course, I don't understand why you're laughing -- so the lumberjacks cut them, so they left. [[entertainment in the hall]] And have you ever studied the bark swarm mechanism? Do you know what a geometric series is? Krůrovec is able to move its own forces within a few hundred meters, and when the wind is convenient, it is also within a few kilometers. If one of the laymen thinks that the cruststorm was caused by Kyrill the Orc, he's mistaken. And you know why? Because trees fall in the Orcan. By the barking calamity, the trees dry. And that's the damn difference. So, as a result of this seemingly minor cause, over the course of several years in the area of Sumava, yes, the wilderness was created. And now I'm moving on to this disgusting notion of wilderness. There are two kinds of wilderness. Wildlife, which is created naturally, a historical heritage, such as Yellowstone and many other national parks. And there is a wilderness that is created artificially. It kind of resembles the neo-romantic ruins of 19th-century castles, which, of course, had the advantage of not destroying the castle. The creation of the Bursi artificial wilderness destroyed 60,000 beautiful trees. And I have rarely experienced a sadder view of a vast, dried forest with my advanced age. I would like to give you three facts, not a rumor that creeps around the galleys, but facts that were presented at the press conference of two national park directors, Jan Stráskýý and Jiří Mánek. At least Jan Stráský is well known to most of you. Former successful politician, chairman of the Czech Tourist Club, lover of Šumava, author of the book Zelená, not brown Šumava. And there Stráský describes the brown Sumava, describes the green Mordor, which was created by fanatics from the then Green Party led by the then director of Šumava National Park Mr. Krejčí. Three facts for your information, then. Real number one. Do you know where the Vltava spring, the most beautiful Czech river? It doesn't exist. The spring of the Vltava perished in the dry Bohemian forest. In the woods the Bursíc wanted to protect, where they fought for a three-fingered woodpecker or a three-fingered grouse. But both the three-fingered woodpecker and the grouse's deaf man moved out of the dry forest long ago. And the Vltava spring moved away with it. Initially, an 800,000 CZK was built to it by such a wooden footbridge. I was there, I saw her. But because dried trees fall, dried trees fall on this footbridge and therefore its operation has been closed. What happened? The spring of Vltava was operationally moved and created a new spring, including a romantic statue that accompanied the original spring. Real number one. And I'm forwarding all three facts that I'm now sharing to you have been publicly published at a press conference and no one has demented them. [[16.30 hours]] Real number two. Visitors came to the new Vltava spring. And they were a little weird about how there were so many dried trees around. So the Šumava National Park management ordered a forklift and a hand saw. A hand saw so that they can cut these trees in half, so that there are teeth, not a smooth cut, and so that tourists can assume that it is the result of a semi- and not the result of a dried tree. And finally, really number three. Fresh seedlings were imported under dried trees during the nightlight of the spotlight. And at night there was an illusion that nature was rejuvenating beautifully in its natural way. And when the lights went out and the night was over, different Špidl and other naive politicians came into the daylight and rejoiced at the natural rejuvenation. It didn't even tell them that sometimes a fresh maple sprouted under a dried spruce. I confess I don't like being created by Potemkin village, and I consider him a fraud. But a man who believes in the villages of Potemkin, I think he's a fool. Which is why I would like to ask you in my performance: Do not trust the green fanatics. Don't trust those who make one of the most beautiful parts of Czech nature their experimental field. They've destroyed enough. And I think if there's no correction, and if there's any further expansion of the impact-free zone, then we'll meet if we don't, our descendants, that the rest of the Sumava will dry. When I saw all this, I wanted to fix my appetite, so I went out on the Austrian side, where, because the Rakušan are backwards, they don't have a national park. The Austrian side is called Hochficht. They've got lifts, cable cars, slopes. I myself took a well-designed cross-country skiing course. Then I went to a great pub. There were a lot of visitors there, everyone was satisfied, including Čech. And the Čech then returned on broken roads around residential villages and half-empty guesthouses. So the Čech let the Rakušan make money instead of letting our businessmen make money. So I wondered why, for God's sake, those who destroyed hundreds of acres of forest fought to build a cable car and to build a downhill course on the Tribal or anywhere else. And I say this as a runner who deeply despises the downhillers, for the downhillers are the ones who don't walk their hill honestly while we are the runners working. Still, I'm tolerant of the downhillers. Ladies and gentlemen, we have witnessed a crime. A fictitious wilderness was created, not a natural wilderness. A desert has been created. What would you say to a man who creates a desert in the middle of Sumava? If he was defending the need for desertification, the expansion of the desert, you would have sent him to an asylum. Why didn't you send Martin Bursík to the madhouse? That is the simplest and easiest question I can ask you. And so I would like to conclude my challenge with a request. There's nothing sadder than when trees die. When they die as a result of fanatics who wanted artificial, not natural wilderness. I have nothing against the bogs in Sumava. But that's not what we're talking about right now. We are talking about a huge forest massif that has been properly managed by our ancestors for centuries. By the way, the neighbouring forest, the forest in Boletice, these are military forests, is properly managed still. The Austrian forest of a monastery is also managed properly. Yes, the Minister of the Environment is right when he says that Sumava is not only for the inhabitants of the Šumava communities. I fully agree with it when it says that Sumava is for all citizens who want to come and recreation. As to any place in our beautiful country, to any other mountain, not to the green or brown Mordor. Let them come there as tourists and let them have the opportunity to use the usual tourist infrastructure as everywhere else. And if you really feel that you want to protect nature - what a noble motto it is and how beautiful it sounds - is it really the protection of nature to destroy the forest? And don't you think that one part of nature protection is the protection of an animal called Homo sapiens sapiens, a man of wisdom? So I would like to draw your attention to the conclusion, think about not repeating the crime, literally the crime that has happened in the past in Sumava nature. Anyone can make a mistake. But if he repeats that mistake, then there is neither counsel nor help. I wish you wisdom in your decision-making. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u4	I thank the President of the Republic and interrupt the House meeting for five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u5	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with the item under discussion - the bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended. Before I give the floor - with priority rights, the Chairman of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek has applied - there are further apologies. President Zbyněk Stanjura apologizes today to the end of the day for reasons of work, Mr Tomio Okamura also apologizes until the end of the day for reasons of work, and Mr Vlastimil Gabrhel apologized from 14:00 to 16:00 for reasons of work, and Mrs Marta Semelová apologises on Thursday from 9:00 a.m. also for reasons of work. Those were excuses, and now I beg the President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, forgive me for delaying, but the President's speech has impressed me so deeply with his state's view that I consider it my duty to complete it with one example in the same genre in which the President spoke. In Bechyně, where I come every week with my sore feet, years ago, a case like this happened in my youth. Three hats were lost in the school locker room. Two knitted and one canvas with a label. And please go check it out today. They have a nice garden around the school.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u7	Thank you, Prime Minister. I welcome Senator Jitka Seitlová and Senator Jaroslav Větrovský among us. I now ask that the Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec speak for the appellants for the resolution of the Senate and for the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u9	Minister, I'm a little sorry, I'm gonna get these crowds out of here, and then you can move on. I ask my colleagues to transfer their calls to the galleys before I begin to name them and personally drive them to the galleys. I won't show, yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u10	I'm sure I can't attract as much attention as Mr. President, even if I wanted to. But honourable colleagues, with all modesty, which one of you has it in order for the President to come to his point? [[A little laugh in the hall.]] I think the President is coming here on the state budget, and now on the amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act, and I appreciate it. And I don't mean that at all ridiculous, I appreciate it very much, it's a great honor for me. But we don't agree with Mr. President. There are things where yes, there aren't that few, but not here. I mean, not a lot. Even, if you like, we have a certain ideological conflict. It's just a fundamentally different perspective. And the president, and he said it here, even though maybe not so hard, has long considered that instead of national parks and not only, although mostly, instead of Sumava, he would prefer protected landscape areas or even natural urban parks. I think that since we have only four national parks in our beautiful little country and their area is only 1.5 percent of the area of the whole Czech Republic, we must damn well protect them. And the first ones, or if you want natural zones, make up 1.5 percent of that even smaller piece. And why do we want to order nature here to behave? Why don't we even let her work on her old cycle? We can see this amazing natural theater where something naturally dies and something else is born on its ruins. And that life, even the dying one, is when you look at it at least a little carefully, and I have to say, after ten years of Kiryll, it's even less attentive. I dare say even from the helicopter. The problem is that we want to control everything, we want to have streams and rivers nicely straightened, animals counted, chips, trees like soldiers, and not the shames that sometimes dry and still unorganized fall over each other. But this is how organized we live on the 99 percent of the rest of the Czech Republic. Me and Mr. President, we've talked about this many times. I really don't think that millions and millions of new little trees can plant activists with headlights. That would have to be a lot of activists. And I know that the President, and he also said that here, has long held that view. [[16.50 hours]] I really don't mind, and it doesn't seem to me at all harmful that Mr. President and I have different opinions. It's inspiring. Mr. President and I exchanged our views, but we all kept ours in the end. And I am very glad that the President has given me at least the truth in that the amendment to the law on conservation of nature and landscape is the right way, and therefore not the path of separate laws on every national park. Mr. President here was talking about the area without interference. But just for the record, and I hope I have the information right, it was the government of Miloš Zeman, when its minister Miloš Kužvart in 2000 under the so-called. In fact, the care plan for the years 2000 to 2010 has already been discussed about a certain future outlook on the possibility of an intervention-free regime of 50 percent of the area of the Šumava National Park in 2030. Yes, it looked very remote back then. However, a number like this has already fallen. And while we were at Šumava, it was probably a mistake that, before that quarter century, more municipalities were included in the park, much more than in other national parks, and promises were probably made that were later not fully fulfilled, and so a deep moat was dug back then, and that was confirmed to me by some of the memorials, which had never been completely filled. And there have certainly been many changes over the 25 years, many directors, many ministers, and many municipalities and regions had, and this must be said, absolutely rightly felt that there was lack of stability. Every new director, the minister came and ripped the helm a little differently - one right, one left, one straight, one forward, one backward. And in that, with communities and regions, I'm totally on the same page. But it's not easy to agree on some things. Let me just give you a few examples. There was a requirement for stability and greater participation of municipalities in decision-making processes. I consider this requirement completely justified. That is why we have proposed that the most important decisions in the life of the national park - for example, the division of the national park of zoning, the establishment of quiet areas, i.e. areas where entry will be restricted in some way - take place, let's say, on the basis of the so-called. a measure of a general nature which strengthens the competence of the municipalities. We have also proposed a revolutionary principle, and I dare say a truly revolutionary principle, a moratorium where, in agreement with municipalities, nothing could be changed for at least 15 years, no one could enter into it. And this principle was carefully accepted at first that it might be possible. On the contrary, NGOs, which wanted a clear timetable for increasing the scale without intervention in all national parks, were strongly opposed. But we rejected it hard, with the fact that we want to let nature work for at least 15 years in order to maintain stability and let our successors decide according to the real events in the parks. We've been dealing with everyone for a year and a half. Only with municipalities were dozens of negotiations at all levels. The result is personally sad for me that if the requirements are not met 100%, in this case the municipalities or regions, it is said that we are not talking at all, that they have not been spoken to or dealt with at all. I was recently blamed, which doesn't bother me, but I think unfairly, in that Brabec didn't make peace in Sumava. But how do you want to make peace with someone who may not want it completely, for whom the compromise is 99:1 or 50:50, but it's just 100:0, either I want it all, or I say no one's talked to me? They're always rubbing off on old wrongs, opening up old wounds. And I think we should stop because life is short. I am absolutely sure that the government and modified parliamentary amendment brings the necessary compromise. It provides protection of nature and, where necessary, allows some areas to be completely or partially opened thanks to peaceful areas. And thanks to the moratorium, it brings not only to 15, but maybe even really to 17, 18 and even 20 years depending on how these things will be discussed, just the stability. Stability no matter who the minister is and who the park manager is. Let's be realistic. I knew the senát wouldn't accept the novel with enthusiasm. But what was finally accepted there, after all, even though I'm used to everything, was quite shocking. I'd like to call it the Šumava Chainsaw Massacre. [[Fun for some Members.]] This is for the very existence of the National Park of Šumava, but of all national parks in the Czech Republic. I have repeatedly said that the adoption of the Senate version could mean the end of national parks in the Czech Republic, and I insist. You have on the table, many of you have read it, expert evaluation from the dean of the Law Faculty of Charles University, Professor Damohorský, Head of Department of Environmental Law. I don't think anyone but him can say what I say laymanly, relatively laymanly, as a lawyer. I'd just like to quote the conclusion here. I think we're gonna have to talk about this. "The Senate amendment must be rejected for serious legal, systemic and substantive errors. For the reasons set out above, I believe that the insistence of the Chamber of Deputies on the approved text of the draft amendment to Act No. 114 is the only acceptable alternative. The Senate proposal does not provide better conservation of nature or of the Šumava National Park, and the other national parks are clearly detrimental to their consequences." Colleagues, colleagues, we were prepared to support a number of amendments in the Senate. I think there were at least ten. It was Mrs Seitlová's amendments, and some others. Unfortunately, as dragon eggs in that text, things were inserted that, if applied, and you have this extensive legal opinion on the table, could really mean endless chaos and legal confusion and endless disputes, including judicial disputes, because completely new legally unclear concepts are inserted into the law. Typical Central European landscape. The national park is put into wine to ensure the sustainable development of municipalities to participate in it. It's really hard to do a national park. This may be done by a regional development agency or region, but it is hardly possible for a national park to do so. Interests or purposes, such as nature conservation and other purposes, have been put on the same equal footing. The long-term conservation objective has been removed, but the second sentence refers to the Senate text. [[17,00 hours]] There are a number of similar things, and I dare say, and forgive me, however often the Senate adjusts the parliamentary version in an appropriate manner, it will complement it, so this time a very failed legal text returns to us from the Senate, which would not only stand in the eyes of Professor Damohorský, Dr. Mlčoch, as one of the people who are a true elite in environmental law, and other lawyers. Colleagues, colleagues, yesterday the symbolic 25 years have passed since the approval of this for that period of revolutionary law No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation. And today we have symbolically the opportunity to confirm by our vote that we still want to go to Western Europe in the protection of national parks in the Czech Republic. The Senate version, however, returns us not for 25 years, but maybe 50 years ago. Please reject it and re-vote for the MP's amendment to the law. I dare say he's better in every way. Not only factually, but also formally. And we don't have to be ashamed of her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u11	Thank you, Minister. I ask first if the rapporteur for the Guarantee Committee on the Environment, Mr Robin Böhnisch, wants to speak gradually on the amendments tabled. Please, rapporteur. Mr Jan Klán, rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, will be prepared. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As I perceived the noise in the hall during the Minister's speech, I think the sentence of one former British Member of the 19th century, Mr Richard Cobden, who was attributed to the statement, will be quite valid: "I have heard a lot of speeches in this House. Some of them drove me to tears. But I have never heard a speech that would affect the outcome of the vote." That's why I'm not going to be too long, and I'm just going to do the basic intelligence role, and I'm going to have to draw attention to a few issues. First, it is my duty to inform you that today, in Malostranské náměstí, I have accepted a petition of 47 000 signatures in support of the House's version and against the Senate version. And I also wanted to show you, read it, introduce you to an analysis of Senate changes in the submission of the Department of Environmental Law of Charles University and Professor Damohorský. However, I found out that this material was distributed to you on tables. I'm sure it's worth reading, we'll obviously have enough time from the logged in. And believe me, it's worth it. It's purely legal material, without any emotion or speculation. It would be good to get acquainted with this material before the final vote. As I judge him as a layman, based on the Senate version, I see him as legally unconsumable. I even have my doubts about the Senate's voteability. But since we have a legal analysis, allow me only a brief technical branch. It concerns the Senate proposal, namely Section 15. We learn from the Senate version that the purpose of national parks is to preserve the characteristic Central European nature and landscape. Ladies and gentlemen, we have four national parks, basically all four are bilateral and protects something unique. It does not protect the typical Central European landscape. We don't even know exactly what the typical Central European landscape is. Should we average some geomorphological elements or set up a typical Central European landscape? In the Giant Mountains, for example, we protect the Antarctic Tundra. It's the only island in Central Europe of the Antarctic Tundra. There's another like it in Scandinavia. Do we have to plough it and plant rape or lipstick according to the Senate's proposals? How will we continue to protect the Krkonoše National Park according to the Senate proposal? Right in the next part of the Senate says that the territory should be used for education, tourism and recreation, unless it conflicts with the purpose and long-term objective for which national parks have been declared. But how to do it if a few lines higher The Senate canceled the long-term goals of national parks? Ladies and gentlemen, I'm not mad at senators who are in the Senate for a short time. They may not yet know the impact of their voice, which is very strong. I'm surprised at the senators' vote that have been sitting in the Senate for a long time. They should be aware - unfortunately, this has not happened - that the one vote that the amendment has been passed returns us historically decades back in nature conservation. And geographically, they are moving us somewhere where we are already passing through with European culture, which is the protection of nature and respect for nature is a very important value. I do not want to ask you, but ask you to remain on a very high-quality balanced compromise version of the Chamber of Deputies today. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u13	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable Members. This was the rapporteur, Robin Böhnisch, for the Committee on Guarantee, for the Environment. I will now ask Mr Jan Klán, rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. But before I give you my word, rapporteur, I will make two apologies. That is from 16.45 a.m. to Mr Ivan Adamec and from 17.30 a.m. to Mrs Jana Hnyková. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u14	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Government, Minister, Senator, Mr. Senator, colleagues. Let me comment as rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development on the returned draft Law 114 on Nature Protection as rapporteur for the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I'm not gonna be that big of an expression. Frankly, I have been reading the amendments that came from the Senate. Those adopted in the Senate resolution, some are reasonable, some are not. When I learned now that it was accepted by one vote, I was quite staring. I didn't know it was accepted by one vote in the Senate. However, some of these amendments are a little off-limits, as we agreed here in the Chamber of Deputies. I remember the Martyrium that I experienced here as rapporteur, when I was once accused of selling out Sumava or doing something with the Sumava National Park. So, in some way, we agreed with the Ministry of the Environment and the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment on some compromise, which was reflected in the final proposal that we adopted here at third reading. However, as rapporteur for the Public Administration Committee, I did not vote in favour of the bill. I will do the same for this bill coming back from the Senate. First of all, there is a problem that absolutely the Senate has undermined the purpose of national parks. He's basically making it a protected landscape area in my opinion, and that's wrong. So I'm not gonna support this. I understand that many regions, the regions concerned, Jihočeský, Plzeňský, support the Senate version in some way due to the development of municipalities in Šumava. I fully understand and reflect this because I have dealt with the mayor's representatives in Sumava, we have dealt with each other many times, we have even prepared an amendment that we have dealt with on the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, and some of their comments were just then contained in the bill that left the House. However, my amendment, which I read here at second reading, concerned precisely removing individual national parks from Law 114 and declaring them a separate bill. That's what I've been promoting here, appealing to the fact that it would be the cleanest and best solution, because then we wouldn't have to open Law 114 all the time. The apple of contention will always and always become Sumava. That Sumava will still be opened if we have the law here. And believe me, it's gonna take quite a while. I'm not saying this term, like the next term. He'll always have to deal with it in some way. In the last term of the election, I remember the Plzeň Region, the draft of the Šumava Act, presented it here. It's been dealt with a lot of times. Over and over again. [[17.10 hours]] In my opinion, therefore, the cleanest solution is to remove individual national parks from Law 114 and declare them a separate bill. I understand that Mr. President, for example, is not for this procedure. I, of course, stand by this procedure, but neither the Senate version nor the House version reflects this, which is why I say for myself that I will not support a single version. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u15	I thank the rapporteur and open the debate. First, of course, Senator Jitka Seitlová. He has the right to speak in the debate and to justify the Senate's decision. Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u16	Thank you, Mr President. [[He's looking into government benches.]] I don't see any deputies -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u17	There's only one member of the government, but it must be enough for you, Senator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u18	Now I'm thinking of addressing you. Dear Minister, once again, honourable Members, let me introduce you to what the Senate is proposing for your consideration so that you can decide on the proposal that is submitted to you from the Senate. The Senate included the press at its 4th meeting and discussed it on 16 January 2017, when resolution 37 decided to return the bill amendment with 40 amendments back to the Chamber of Deputies for a new decision. As in the Chamber of Deputies, the discussion of the bill amendment was accompanied by longer lively discussions in the Senate. The topics of the senators' performance were mainly about different attitudes to the extent, objectives and conditions of nature conservation in the Šumava National Park. The attention paid to the Šumava National Park, as the President spoke about it, is mainly given by the integration of a number of municipalities directly into the protected area and at the same time the partial interest in more intensive economic and recreational use of this area of the largest national park in our country. 54 amendments were tabled at the Senate plenary. By a close majority of 38 votes in favour of 37 votes, amendments were adopted by a joint vote, with which I will allow you now at 16, respectively. 15 points to get acquainted because there is a broad media debate and it is not always clear what has been adopted. I believe that many of you have, of course, become familiar with these amendments in detail, although I think it is necessary to say clearly briefly what has been adopted and what the Senate is presenting. First, the basic definition of the national park is deleted and the long-term objective of protecting the undisturbed development of nature on the prevailing area of the park is deleted. Furthermore, the development of municipalities and regions, education, tourism and recreation should have the same priority as nature conservation throughout the national park. It is possible to change the water regime in order to improve the retention capacity of the landscape throughout the park. The proposal for a ban on the use of pyrotechnics approved by the Chamber of Deputies is only changed to a ban on the use of pyrotechnics with sound effects. There is an extension of the possibility of using biocides outside built-up areas not only in gardens but also in forest kindergartens. The possibility of using biocides in buildings outside the built-up areas is cancelled. Quiet areas will be able to be designed and declared only in the zone of nature and nature nearby. It is determined when it is possible to cancel the reserved routes or routes. In the definition of the natural zone, the undisturbed course is possible only - and now a word of natural processes has been added. From the definition of the near nature zone, the objective of restoring the nature of nearby ecosystems is deleted. The classification of territories which do not comply with the characteristics of the zones for inclusion in each protection zone shall be limited to a maximum of 10 per cent. It is added that, when defining and amending the individual zones set by the Ministry of Finance by decree, the basis for assessing the fulfilment of the objectives and objectives of their definition will be the basis. A 15-year moratorium on changes in individual zones from the entry into force of the Decree shall be deleted. In order to carry out exceptional interventions, listed exceptional interventions in the natural zone, the condition of their necessity for the protection of life, the health of persons and property shall be deleted. Preventive measures against forest fires may be implemented according to our Senate proposal without prior consultation with the nature conservation authority and taking into account the national park objectives. In the natural zone, if it is not contrary to the objective of protection, it is possible to regulate not only cloven-hoofed but all game. It is established that the maintenance and all repairs of the route network should be carried out in the natural zone, as well as marking and maintenance of cross-country trails. Measures which are contrary to the purpose of the national park may not be implemented in the cultural landscape zone. So it's changed there - originally there was that threatened the object of protection, now there must be a direct conflict. The definition of the National Park Board as an initiative and consultation body for matters relating to the relevant national park shall be deleted. The design of national park zones, quiet areas, roads, routes proposed in quiet areas is the body of protection obliged to agree newly with all representatives of municipalities and regions represented on the Board. If no agreement is reached, the Ministry shall decide on the objections of municipalities and regions in administrative proceedings. The exemption for forests included in the natural zone is deleted, according to which it should not be included in the list of binding provisions of economic forest plans. It is established that outside the territory of the built-up and stopable areas of municipalities, now defined in the third zone of nature conservation in the Šumava National Park, these areas are considered as a cultural landscape zone until the zones are defined in accordance with the amendment of the Act. These are therefore amendments that have been adopted by the narrow majority of one vote. In the subsequent Senate plenary vote, the senators agreed, by a majority of 68 to 70 votes, on the correction of legislative and legislative technical deficiencies, such as the clarification of the components of the rescue system, which, if necessary, have access to all parts of the national park, the unification of references, rights and obligations in which there were some inaccuracies. The right to compensation created by the owner or tenant of the land has also been specified if he is obliged to refrain from intervention which significantly changes the condition of the land until the purpose of the territory has been declared specially protected. Dear Members, it is clear from the above brief summary of the Senate's amendments that the Senate has decided to strengthen the position of the municipalities, to mitigate certain conditions of protection and to extend beyond the conditions laid down in the Chamber of Deputies the possibility of further exploitation of the territory outside its own nature conservation objective. In the final vote, 54 out of 72 senators voted in favour of returning the bill, 11 opposed. From the position, respectively. on the part of the Senate's guarantee rapporteur and my mandate to present the results of the Senate hearing to you, Members and Members, I ask the Chamber of Deputies to give their consent to the amendment, as referred to by the Senate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u19	I thank the Senator and ask who else will speak in the debate. If no one with priority rights, then individual Members will be according to their applications. First, Mr Václav Votava as the first enrollment, a colleague of Mr Zahradník will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I will certainly not surprise anyone if I say that I will vote in favour of the motion that came from the Senate. I have already expressed myself at the previous hearing in this House that I do not agree with the Government's bill, although I am therefore a government Member, a coalition Member, and I have also said the reasons why this is so. [[17.20 hours]] Minister Brabec here spoke of some sort of ideological conflict. Minister, there is no ideological conflict, I think. And I'll show you on the example of the Plzeň Region's representative's meeting. The Plzeň Region's representative last December, after the approval of the government draft, turned his resolution to the Senate and called on the Senate to reject this bill. After discussion in the Senate, it was yesterday, it was the meeting of the Plzeň Region's representativeship and I will introduce you to the resolution that was adopted. And I must say that almost all the representatives of the Pilsen Region voted in favour of this resolution without a few exceptions. And, Minister, of the nine representatives present for the ANO movement, eight voted in favour of this resolution. Only one voted against. I think two were excused. So you can see that he's... And, of course, the representatives of the Civic Democratic Party voted, and the representatives of the KSČ voted. So I don't think there's any ideological conflict. It is a principle and an expression of will, as the citizens of Šumava municipalities, mayors, etc. also communicate it. I said I would introduce you to the resolution of the Plzeň Region's representative. So a simple statement to the National Park of Sumava. "The representative of the Plzeň Region supports the amendment of the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic by resolution No. 75 of 18. 1. 2017 to the amendment to Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended, as annexed to the motion for a resolution." Again, the vast majority of the members of the Plzeň Region's council, including the overwhelming majority of your Members, voted in favour of this. I also received a letter from the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Plzeň Region. I will also quote from it: "Dear Member, we would like to ask you to give an opinion, our position, when discussing the bill amending Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended. As part of this amendment, the law returns to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion. In its deliberations, the Senate proposed amendments which, in our view, are not intended to eliminate national parks, not just the Šumava one. It is true that the Šumava National Park has its specifics, especially that there are municipalities on its territory, people live in them to a greater extent than in other parks in the Czech Republic. It is with regard to the lives of these people, who have lived here for several generations in accordance with nature, that we support their right to democratic codecision on further developments in this territory. The citizens themselves have no interest in the degradation of beautiful nature in their surroundings, which could be due to the development of development activities or the sale of land and the felling of forests. The interest of municipalities is the preservation of cultural-historical heritage, the protection of their property, as well as the conservation and development of the protection of plant and animal species. At the same time, however, they need to create a compromise solution between the logical protection of the most valuable parts of the park and the possibility of entering tourists visiting the territory for their development and happy lives. We believe that Senate proposals respect these requirements and that is why I support these proposed amendments." This is therefore a letter I received from the Association of Towns and Municipalities of the Pilsen Region, whose members are of course also Sumava, or most of the Šumava municipalities. You are here, Minister, in your speech mentioned a letter which, of course, you did not quote. I can see why. I received the letter, too. It's a letter from Mayor Mrs. BC Drahomíra Stanžovská, mayor of the village of Stožec. That's the village that's in the South Bohemia part. And the letter says, "Brabec didn't make peace in Sumava." That, too, Minister, was mentioned when you did not quote the letter. But I'm quoting him with permission, the letter. He's very emotional, that's true. I trust you won't be offended. I'm sure the mayor meant it in a good way. But he's emotional. And I don't blame her that the letter is emotional. "Brabec didn't make peace in Sumava. The stormy media campaign of recent days, the statements of Minister Brabec, his Deputys, Members and Senators of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, regional governments, mayors, professional institutions, scientists and activists can be called anything but peace and quiet in Sumava. The common denominator of the events of the last days seems to be changes in the amendment to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act. The Senate understood that the draft law of Brabcův's workshop is no compromise, but rather a dictation that threatens both the interests of people living in Šumava and Šumava themselves. He has made changes that will prevent the greatest possible disasters. And all of a sudden, it all came out and the media crisis started. Suddenly, both Minister Brabec and his officials and all-powerful and all-powerful activists speak the same language, and all of them, as a flock of vultures embarked on senators, mayors and non-existent developers. At the January meeting in the Senate during the amendment of the Nature Act, I listened carefully to the speech of Minister Brabec from the guest gallery. He really tried hard to tell everyone that he was impartial and resistant to any pressure. How he likes and often rides Sumava. I'm sure the outsiders believed his speech. I don't think so. I saw him in Sumava once, surrounded by my officials and persuasive rhetoric. But he did not convince the local people, but even more he introduced them into uncertainty. When the Minister was no longer able to solve anything in Sumava, he began to slander some of the Sumava mayors, reduce their dignity. For example, we learn that mayors are shouters, because others are satisfied. How did he come up with that statement? Not everyone is equipped with the courage to express themselves publicly, so we have our elected representatives among us who speak our language. He's talking to our tribe. Stožec is the second largest village in the Šumava National Park with its entire cadastral. And I've been his fourth mayor since the National Park was founded. None of my predecessors - Mr Kříž, Mrs Lelková, Mr Černý - had a different opinion on the issue of the national park than I do today. Unfortunately, I see that we who live in Sumava are very annoying again. Why won't they let us live here? Our children were born here, love Sumava and want to stay here. Should we be worried about another move? Why does anyone have a problem with tourists who want to come to Šumava to visit nature, park a car, eat somewhere and also go to a normal bathroom? Why do tourists who want to see the historic chapel built by our ancestors? Why does it bother a person like that? The fact that Šumava was transformed by people by their work is denied. People have lived here for a long time. They redesigned the landscape, built their mansions, and lived their lives to the fullest. For centuries, they have transformed the wilderness, the cultural landscape, and now a few of the chosen want to return this landscape to the Neolithic era. And we're stopping them. That is why the original bill came out one that would disgust and consequently prevent people from living in Sumava. It scares me that the Minister and his servants behave like superhumans, and only their truth is true, so they close tourist routes, and lie about opening them up, lying about development projects, golf courses, ascendants, lunaparks, concrete construction of Šumava, worries and Šumava people. No compromise can be arranged by lying like this. Maybe that's why he screams so much because the lie has short legs. Unfortunately, a lot of outsiders trust them. I really wish the people of Sumava would listen to us. We just want to live, but we want to live in peace and not as in the war zone, which was created by Minister Brabec in his policy." [[17.30 hours]] Maybe harsh judgment, Minister, but I think the mayor meant it, not to offend you, but to really express her emotions in this letter. We've been in the past few days, and you could say weeks, received dozens of e-mails. The e-mails are basically one hoof. These e-mails are probably initiated from one center. The thing that bothers me is that most of the time, it's called untruths. And I'm offended when someone calls me who's subject to lobbyists, who's connected to developers. You know, it bothers me-- it's the one who's not coming with us, he's going against us. Whoever doesn't come with us is our enemy, and we must dishonor him. Whoever votes for the Senate proposal is the enemy, we must publicly dishonor him. And I think it's already been here - who's not coming with us, so it's against us. I might take the liberty - I don't want to delay, because the others are waiting for the show, too, but maybe a few of those e-mails. I do not question the fact that these people, of course, have the right to turn to us, to send e-mails, but they really are offensive sometimes, they are brutal and, of course, false, because most of the things that are moving on us, to those who want to vote for the Senate proposal, to those who listen to the mayors - and please, the mayors are no fools. The mayors certainly don't want their landscape destroyed, the nature they live in. That can only be said... well. "Dear Members, we have been traveling to Sumava with friends for many years on cycling trips and admiring the landscape. Please do not let the beautiful meadows be destroyed by the construction of complexes and hotels, which are the interests of entrepreneurs connected to the mayors of the municipalities and to officials of the South Bohemia Region." - Isn't it offensive to these mayors, and these South Bohemia officials are linked to this kind of thing? "Hello. If you really start interfering with national parks, I'd be interested in the average intelligence of parliament. We've destroyed nature enough as humans. Where will your children play? And when it's about money, are you really stupid enough to be able to make money elsewhere, like from logging? I would be ashamed to support the proposal for such mining. I mean, you've got fine money, taxes, VAT, you're doing so many public contracts where the money can be earned, so think about whether or not you want the money to destroy something so nice that was far ahead of you. "Now I appeal to your conscience, to your national pride, to your love of nature. Do not be fooled by the ambiguous promises of those who certainly influence some of you either in material form or otherwise. Try to think about your children for real one day. Try to think further than the nearest ATM once. I will examine carefully who you voted for, and I already know the names that will vote for the Senate proposal, after the Bible said, have a certain reward. I do not judge, it belongs to another instance, but I will remember and before the elections I will ask not only about Šumava, not only in Krkonoše Mountains, not only in Czech Switzerland, not only in Podyjí, but also in ČEZ, ROP Southwest, regional orders. I am not threatening, I just point out that as a citizen, I will defend my rights by means which allow me the laws of this republic, moral principles and conscience, i.e. principles that should also be your decision-making basis." I will no longer go on, ladies and gentlemen. Yeah, like I said, who's not coming with us, goes against us, we have to publicly dishonor him, that's the enemy. I will, of course, support the Senate proposal. I will support him because I believe that this Senate proposal is a compromise, that there will be no catastrophic scenarios that somebody is creating here, that we want to concrete Šumava, we want to build a carnival there. I don't know how a carnival should be in a national park, I can't imagine. Maybe the water park is, but neither are the water parks. And it must also be taken into account that there are really people living in Sumava. People live there. There aren't just trees, animals, frogs, plants, but there's also Homo sapiens, there's a man there, and that man wants to live there. He lived there for years and wants to live there in the future and raise his children there. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u21	I thank Mr Václav Votav. We will continue with Mr Jan Zahradník's speech. Before I give him my word, I shall make an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr. Milan Šarapatka has been apologizing since 5:00 p.m. Mrs Ivana Fischerová also apologizes from 17 to the end of the day and Mrs Vojtěch Adam from 18 a.m. to the end of the day. Now, then, Mr Jan zahradník. A colleague of František Laudát will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u22	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, I have been here many times about the Nature and Landscape Protection Act. On the one hand, in favour of rejecting the shape that we now know as the House version, I have put forward many times. I would now like to make my arguments in favour of the proposal that arose from the legal legislative process in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. First of all, I would like to pause on what we have been doing today. In the three years that I have the honour to be here in the House, I have not experienced any of the laws that we have been discussing being accompanied by a campaign that, in my opinion, has no equivalent to the duration and intensity of the final day, that is, today, when we have this item on the agenda. The campaign was extremely personal to us, and what was extremely false about the evidence it was based on. The Rainbow Movement - and I must say here that Mr. Votava correctly quoted some of the e-mails we received - has done a great deal of work. I'm looking for the adjective right now - just not a good, but a big job. However, it happened that those people who were addressed - I don't even think that the same was the case with the Senate Bill on Sumava, when the e-mails were purely prefabricated from one address in a similar form. Here, even many people have probably taken the impulse from the Rainbow Movement and have created them themselves with their reasons, emotional motives, often highly emotional, both in a positive approach and in a negative approach. My colleague Votava quoted the e-mails, and I must say that over time it seems that the pattern that the Rainbow Movement sent to its respondents has somehow degenerated, and then the e-mails had a character that contained the untrue. One such thesis was that we should reject the Senate version because this version is to abolish national parks. Of course, no such thing happened. Another such thesis that was mentioned there was what my colleague Votava mentioned here, the construction of golf courses, parking lots, carnival parks - the word fair is probably used because it rhymes well with the word national park - aquaparks and other such attractions. [[17.40 hours]] Furthermore, the frequent and typical motive that is attributed to us supporters of the Senate version is the effort to cut down. Dive on Sumava. I'm gonna beat the crap out of you. That's what we're trying to do. I hear that's what we're all trying to do here. These people don't know what's going on, of course. They don't know that the biggest mining here was for Minister Bursík and his director krejčí. They do not know that the current director Hubený plans to mine 150,000 full-metres per year, absolutely unprecedented at a time when there is no barking calamity. It is also often emphasized that we are corrupt, that we should get some money from some developers, from some people who want to concrete Šumava for the purpose of their business projects. These are things you need to be able to take and be able to hold on to them. And I think that our profession, however temporary in time, brings politics and we need to get used to it. But the e-mails contain other parts that could sometimes wake up a smile. Those people remind us of how they went to the green forests with Grandma and there they saw the creeks raging, and they call for us to help preserve these green forests so that we don't cut them down so that we can give them a chance to live. These people may not have been to Sumava and have not seen many and many rows and hectares and thousands of hectares of dried trees. Those dried trees since 1991, since the park existed, are three million dried trees. Today's campaign culminated in demonstrations here in Lesser Town Square and the stand that the Rainbow Movement built there. As usual, the stand was framed by beautiful pictures of the green Bohemian nature and I saw with my own eyes, I was there to see how many people signed their petition, which the rapporteur here brought in some yellow box. This too is part of a normal political life. But again, we haven't experienced anything like this here with any other law. I wonder why that is. Why such a law, which also concerns a part of the Czech Republic, gives rise to such emotions. And one of my points is that our vote before it takes place here, whether it's the Senate version or then sticking to the House version, has such a really irreversible and lasting character. It happens either way. Either we start to treat Sumava a little more reasonably and to treat its inhabitants more kindly, or by means of a House-shaped law, we declare the wilderness to be more than 50 percent of the territory, and then we wonder what will happen. It has already been mentioned here, I think the President did it, that there is really an experiment going on here. And I've been saying that for a long time. The experiment started here, and the experiment, unfortunately, doesn't yet have any reliable experimenter, anyone who'd run it, who'd be responsible for it, who would bring the bills. So if the House version is approved today, the experimenter will be the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to comment on some issues from the Senate version, and I would also like to comment on the things that have been said here. The first thing is Section 15, paragraph, which is the definition paragraph, which defines what a national park is and which also defines certain characteristics. It is blamed on the Senate that instead of the long-term objective of protecting national parks, it has introduced the concept of the purpose of the national park. Maybe even logically, let's think about the concept of a long-term goal. The target is a category that is somewhere in the future that we set ourselves to achieve. The target at 100 meters is 100 meters from the start, the marathon destination is 42 kilometers away. And here's our goal of protection. What will happen when this goal is achieved if this is approved in the House version? When the objective of protection is met when it is achieved? Let's just say, now the nature is okay, can we let her out of the grip we're putting on her? Consider this as one of the reasons why, generally speaking, the objective of protecting national parks does not, in my opinion, belong to the law. Of course, it is right to set targets for the protection of individual national park zones. Objective of protection of the natural zone, objective of protection of the nature zone near, areas of increased care. I don't know the extent to which it would make sense, but we still have it there, as well as the objective of protection in the cultural landscape zone. Where people live, the goal there should be to enable people to live and make a living for a long time. And I can imagine that after achieving those goals, it's possible to change the ionization, and it's possible to limit the permanent, long-term constraints that result from the ionation, the permanent, long-term protection here in some way. The Senate version also thinks about ensuring and promoting sustainable development of local authorities, as we say. He also thinks about using the territory for education, tourism and recreation. I merely recall that the community and the area of the cultural landscape where the communities where people live are less than five percent of the area of the national park. Another significant shift is that the peaceful territories of the national park, i.e. those areas where it will not be possible to enter, will be declared only in the area of nature and nature close to it. That's what the Senate version suggests. The zone of increased protection, where nature prevails already marked by man, does not have such an option, nor does the zone of the cultural landscape. In my opinion, the idea of declaring a quiet zone on the Kvild square is not at all conceivable. The third change that, in my view, the Senate proposal for the life of municipalities and their inhabitants benefits is at all the definition of a zone of cultural landscape in which people are allowed to live and make a living there. This, according to the Senate proposal, is made up of built-up territories and patronising areas of municipalities and is also defined on areas where man-made altered ecosystems intended for permanent human use prevail in order to ensure sustainable development of the local authorities concerned or other public interest. So if we have humans in Sumava besides protected natural entities, plants, animals, we must at least allocate the minimum space to them so that they can live there and implement their development in some way. And in my view, the fourth important way that benefits municipalities is to change the way in which the national park councils decide, and I think it will also benefit the national park itself and the understanding, acceptance and acceptance of national park management decisions. According to this provision, I think it is § 20, the nature protection authority must agree with representatives of municipalities represented under the law in another section on the protection of the national park and with regional representatives. I mean, 24 people in total. [[17.50 hours]] I think that's a useful thing. To appeal to the fact that the existing paragraph, which requires the same need for an agreement from the National Park Council, so there is one doubt. The National Park Board is appointed by the director of the administration, and there is nowhere to say how many members the board should have and what composition it should have, in addition to the obligation to accept the representatives of the municipalities on whose cadastrals the national park is situated and the representatives of two regions. There is such concern, and trust me well, the experience of municipalities with the behaviour of national park administration is that the director of the administration could appoint a board so that representatives of municipalities and regions can always be overvoted when deciding on the board. That is what I fear, and that is why I also think that there is no need to doubt that the intention of the municipalities to ensure proper influence and proper position is appropriate. The government amendment and its Houselike appearance did not really solve one of the most fundamental problems of Šumava, this is the problem of integrating municipalities into the park territory, they did not. The House version essentially prefers and anchors a single public interest and that is, say, a scientific national park, a national park designed for scientists, environmentalists, conservationists in quotes, activists, that is, for people who want to turn Sumava from most of its territory into wilderness. But the national park isn't such a closed area. It is a territory where - as I have said many times - people live, but people also come there to spend their free time. So this also takes into account the Senate version of the Nature Conservation Act. As far as nature conservation itself is concerned, it must be said here that, apart from minor changes in the Senate version, the provisions on nature protection leave no change in the law compared to the version of the House. The Senate version of nature conservation doesn't change anything. The protection conditions of national parks remain almost intact in general and also remain unchanged even more closely protected conditions of individual national parks. There is only one possibility - and I think it is also not entirely simple and it is in some way controversial, but I insist that we keep it in the Senate version. It is an opportunity to mark new hiking trails. But this should be in line with what Minister Brabec declares every day, namely that his interest is to open national parks to tourists. As a matter of fact, if it already seems to us that the zone is sufficiently protected and that it would allow tourists to visit the route by marked route, so that the route can be marked. The House version doesn't give such an option. Ladies and gentlemen, this is something I wanted to say to sort of refute this - I believe well that the expressive and so emotional claim made by Minister Brabec that the Senate proposal is... I don't know how to put it... I wrote it down: the Šumava Chainsaw Massacre. Then, Mr President, the Minister has given himself a great deal of permission. Neither the senators, nor the Šumava citizens, nor the mayors are enough terrorists to go into the Šumava woods with a chainsaw. It's the park staff, if they follow Mr. Hubený's plan for 150,000 cc's of mining, that's what they're gonna do. What's gonna happen to those trees? They will be exported to Germany and sold as a profit of the national park. Ladies and gentlemen, we've received a huge amount of e-mails. My colleague Votava said dozens. There were really hundreds of them. I read again that there were 20,000 of them. Oh, no, that would have flooded our mailboxes. It's not like that. But there may have been hundreds, maybe several hundred. Many of us read them and were emotionally burdened by the information. When someone constantly insults you and accuses you of being a salesman of a lobby, it certainly increases your heart rate and affects you. But I think it's our duty. I think it is also our duty to get to know the views of the people who live in Sumava and who have chosen their representatives in the free elections, i.e. municipal representatives, and they have chosen the mayors of the municipalities from among themselves. There is a brochure prepared by the Union of Šumava Communities in cooperation with both regions, South Bohemia and Plzeňský, which was distributed in printed form before the beginning of today's meeting before 14:00 on tables in the Chamber. I'm quoting something from the brochure. I understand that one of you doesn't want to read it, but I'd like to draw attention to important moments worthy of your attention. First of all, the President of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, Master František Lukl, turns to the President of the Chamber of Deputies - I apologize - for the President of the MPs, politically it is better this way, asking for the support of the Senate amendment. It states here: The text approved by the House opens the way to change the existing composition of the councils. The Senate proposal corrects the principles of the right to self-government, other contradictions with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms. That is President Lukl's position. The opinion of the Association of Municipalities of the Sumava National Park, accompanied by stamps and signatures of 18 mayors, shows clearly: We want to live in Sumava, we are its inhabitants, we live in accordance with nature, say representatives of the Union of Municipalities of the National Park, we have never harmed nature. On the contrary, with our hands we brought Sumava into a state where she could have been declared a national park 25 years ago. The government draft tramples on our history, writes mayors, the work of our ancestors, prohibits the preservation of historical cultural heritage, prohibits the maintenance of a typical Central European landscape, prohibits the care of mountain meadows and forests, orders the barking process to multiply, closes Šumava to visitors and passes on the right to decide on our homes to activists. Someone mentioned it, perhaps it was the rapporteur, about the typical Central European landscape, and he expressed a wonder about what it meant. He pretended he didn't know what the Central European landscape was. A similar quote can be found in the decree introduced by the Bavarian Forest National Park. Even there they refer in the main paragraph to the interest of maintaining a typical Central European landscape. I think we all know what's going on. But we don't want to live the lives of Indians on reservations, the mayors say. It asks us, if we do not have the will to accept Senate proposals, to consider the possibility of returning the amendment to a new legislative process, which will result in a genuine compromise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u23	Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for some peace. It does not mean that when you speak in a calm voice that other colleagues will want to shout you out when discussing probably texts other than the text before us as a point of action. If you are discussing another matter, please leave the front, and leave the one who has the word given to you to put forward your suggestions and arguments. And I really mean all my colleagues and my colleague left to the right. I'll wait a little longer. [[It's only now that the noise is gone.]] Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u24	Yes, thank you, Mr Vice-President, for making peace. So it was about expressing the Union of Municipalities of the National Park. The mayors still write that it is not true that the changes proposed by the Senate destroy national parks, degrade nature conservation in them, return nature protection to the 1950s, allow for the construction of cable cars, downhill areas, aquaparks, over-enhancing the authority of the municipalities and making it possible to deal with state land. Here I submit that the ban on state property in the Senate proposal remains unchanged as it is in the proposal from the House. Similarly, the pre-emptive right to land outside the built-up areas of municipalities remains. All the basic and closer protective conditions of the national parks have been preserved. It was not affected by the ban on the sale of state land, it was not affected by any provisions of Nature 2000, the Construction Act or the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. By contrast, Senate modifications replace imaginary targets with clearly defined purposes for national parks, enabling the return of plant and animal species that have disappeared from the park's territory over time, allowing measures to improve the retention capacity of the landscape as well as the protection of historical cultural heritage. Another letter we have here is the resolution of the Regional Organization of the Association of Local Authorities signed by Jiří Iral, President of the South Bohemia Association of Local Authorities of the South Bohemia Region, asking to adopt an amendment as amended by the Senate resolution of Parliament. Finally, from these messages that we receive from regional authorities, I quote the resolution of the representative of the South Bohemia Region, which was approved last Thursday, at the meeting on 16 February 2017. This resolution states that the representativeship of the South Bohemia Region calls on Members of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to adopt an amendment to Act No. 114/1992 Coll., on Nature and Landscape Conservation, as amended by the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Resolution No. 75 of 18. 1. 2017 to ensure sustainable development of municipalities and adequate care for the nature and landscape of the National Park of Šumava. And it was ordered to send a letter with this resolution to the MPs and Zimol Members. Ladies and gentlemen, there are a number of other very valuable information items, including a treatise on collisions, about how the drying of Sumava, dry forest has a negative effect on the collision balance and flows of rivers that flow from Šumava, as well as on the much greater frequency of flood phenomena that occur, a reduction in flow, but a far more intense flood activity on those rivers. There are also evidence that it is not possible to create a mixed forest that reminds of the ancient original wilderness that was probably in Sumava before people started to go and farm there. In the same ancient spruce monocultures in the past established as economic forests, the forest fell apart and the self-renewing process is much more complex, time-long. There is also a disproved myth that in the Bavarian Forest National Park there is no mining and processing of windstorms or barkwood. The graphs indicate the exact opposite. Every time it happens, and in the Bavarian Forest, it happened in the same way as in our country in 2007 during the Kyrill Orcan, and of course both semi- and barkwood has always been thoroughly processed in this national park, in both parts of it. It is blamed that the Senate proposal extends the definition of tourist activities to the possibility of marking cross-country trails. These arguments are such that cross-country skiing and hiking routes are one and the same. It's not like that. After all, we know that the cross-country ski trails we have in Sumava often lead elsewhere than the marked routes of summer tourism. I'd still name it here, here we go, yes... [[He's looking into the files.]] The development of municipalities and regions should have the same priority as nature conservation, calling out opponents of the Senate version. We are inspired here by the way the Bavarian Forest treats the inhabitants of the villages lying in the neighborhood of the Bavarian Forest. There is no municipality on the territory, but yet it treats the municipalities with great sensitivity, aware that the influence of local self-government is very highly valued in Bavaria and the local government takes into account the opinion of municipal authorities. Rumors that Senate versions will contribute to building, I must mention again, the famous carnivals, must be rejected, because, of course, all the licensing processes that allow any construction activity remain identical both in the Senate and in the House version. It is blamed that in the opening definition section 15 para. 3 speaks of the natural course of natural events. Of course, we want to protect those areas that have been created in the past in a natural way, not in a newly created way, and I mean this now not in the National Park of Šumava or another national park, but in general any other, long-term unmaintained, wilderness resembling the raid sites in the heaps or, for example, the deaf. This is not possible as unnaturally created territories at all to protect nature. The Rainbow Movement is also a frequent spreader of various untruths if I use such a mild word. According to the words of the Rainbow Movement, the Senate proposal abolishes the long-term objective of protecting the disturbed evolution of nature at least half its territory. It's not like that. We've eased the Ministry's duty to declare more than 50% of the no-shooting. We didn't know what the Minister meant about most of the territory for a long time. In the Senate he was asked to answer that if we actually add up all those territories, zones of nature close, zones of nature and others that he is considering, it will actually be more than 50 percent of the territory without intervention in the area of Šumava. That is how it was personally communicated in the Senate - Mr Vice-President, tell the Minister. The Senate proposal merely gives this possibility, but it does not provide for the transformation of the vast majority of Šumava and national parks in general into wilderness as mandatory, mandatory. [[18.10 hours]] The Senate proposal allows dams to be built in national parks. That's nonsense. Again, all buildings are subject to the same rules and nothing changes that they must comply with the Natura system, the environmental impact assessment of the EIA, the construction law, etc. and the very provisions of the law, which remained unchanged. The Senate proposal declares the development of municipalities. There is a threat of massive construction, turning into carnivals. Well, I already talked about it. That's a lie that dominates the entire campaign. The Senate proposal allows all animals to be hunted. Well, the House's proposal allows only game to be hunted by cloven-hoofed animals. The other animals, whether they are or are not multiplied, do not allow them to be hunted, whether intervention to regulate them would be necessary or not. The fox, the muskrat, from the bird kingdom, for example, does not allow the common magpie to be hunted. Thus the Senate version gives the possibility to even these animals in order to regulate their condition to hunt. It's not like it's a hunt for some punk, it's not like it's a business hunt, now that we may be past the v.I.P. hunts of some environmentalist. This hunt, this regulation of game status, is carried out by park managers as part of targeted activity. The Senate proposal allows a large part of the forests of national parks to be transformed into a permanent forestry and logging regime. The Senate proposal does not allow any transfers of forests between different regimes to be carried out as the definition of individual zones remains unchanged or only received technical minor co-formulatory specifications while maintaining the substance and meaning, in particular as regards the cultural landscape zone. I've already talked about this. This is a common mantra of Duha, which says that municipalities will become lords in the park territory. It's not like that. They will only be able to be the arguing point for essential documents, and that is the arguing point, so that their legitimate objections and comments are taken into account. [[Noise in the hall.]] It is not true that the Senate proposal would return nature protection before 1989, as the Minister says. It's not like that. It's an odd argument. We have parks here that are renowned to preserve the valuable natural and landscape environment in their territory preserved and existing for future generations. This no longer applies in the case of Šumava National Park, because the landscape nature of Šumava changed fundamentally after the crusty calamity of the Kyrill Orcan. Ladies and gentlemen, maybe there's one more important thing I'd like to remind you of. The Minister has mentioned some things that I have already commented on here. Perhaps it would be worth mentioning briefly some of the names mentioned by the President here. I just want to remind you of a sad thing. Mr. President mentioned former Minister František Benda is no longer among us. He died on January 1st of this year. Mr. PhDr Jan Stráský thank God successfully rehabilitates and heals, I believe, nicely. And the third name, Minister Martin Bursík. He's responsible for all of this. In 2007, he decided not to clean fallen wood from the first and second zones. He left the 150,000 cc's with the knowledge that he was saving himself a difficult, stumbled and unpleasant job in arranging the changes to the zoning, which he had then had to undergo in administrative proceedings with the municipalities. He knew that if he left the wood lying down, he would most likely explode the bark and transform Sumava into a wilderness or provide much of it for him. That's what really happened. kůrovec flew out, ate and turned 20,000 hectares of Sumava into a dry forest. The restoration in that dry forest was also mentioned. Somewhere is going better, somewhere worse, somewhere there are trees that were there before the cataclysm of bark, somewhere maybe something was planted, somewhere maybe there are self-reconstructing trees. But there's no new gene pool, it's still the ancient Bohemian Forest. At the seminar in the Senate, Minister Bursík said he accepted responsibility for this. And where his responsibility is today, I don't really know. There's one more thing I'd like to mention, and it's a 15-year moratorium. No one is saying that this moratorium would relate not to the existing zonation, but to the zonation that the Minister is preparing and the administration of the park after the approval of this law, i.e. to more than 50% of the area, without any experience with this imperviousness being known at all. Our vote will have even more importance. This is, in my opinion, a further development in our country. There are activists in Sumava and all over the place. And if this law is passed, it will be a great, great victory for them, and it will be a great, great loss for the inhabitants of Sumava and for those who like Sumava green, Šumava for the people. Activists today control quite a large part of social events, social activities. You all know very well how you got to the point of view of the State's reconstruction before the election. You've signed many, signed up for them, and now you have to comply. Activists control the area of human rights, much of the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund. So environmental activists are now gaining great power. The EIA Act gives them the opportunity to significantly influence the authorisation of new buildings, which may be a source of economic income for them. A law is now to be passed to environmental activists and politicians who participated in this activity, actually amnesty, indulgence for what happened in Sumava after the Kyrill Orcan in 2007. They take responsibility for the enormous damage that is calculated in Sumava today in the order of 30 billion. Crowns. Not like damage to some wood matter, but damage to nature, damage to ecology. Members of the county where national parks don't lie, all of this may seem pointless, irrelevant. But the truth is that if activists record this victory, their desire to control other territories, they will not be satisfied with other parts of our republic and they can move on with their ideas to other regions of our Republic. And then you would have those of you who will be voting in favour here (?) The senate version, they were bitterly sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, I support the Senate version and I am inclined to believe that if we did not approve the Senate version, let us consider blocking the House version so that we can return to the National Parks, to Sumava, with a clean table and seek a compromise not only with activists, not to give 10:0 to activists, but also to leave some success, some chance, some hope for the Šumava people and their communities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u25	I thank Mr Zahradník and I register applications with priority rights, so my colleague Laudát, because he applied without exercising the right of priority, has Mrs Jana Černochová, representing the President of the ODS Club, and Mr Jaroslav Faltýnek as Chairman of the ANO Club. Then we will proceed to the next debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take a 45-minute break at the ODS Club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-005-002.u27	Thank you. Madame, before I announce a break for the meeting of your member's club, I shall state the apology of Vice-President Jan Bartošek, who has been working since 17.30. I will grant your request for a break from the MP's club, but I must fulfil my duties. I ask the House for peace. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, I ask for your peace of mind. Before I put out a break for the ODS club meeting, we need to tell you how we're going to proceed. We'll continue tomorrow at 9 a.m., with fixed points, because it's Wednesday, i.e. third reading. The third reading block will begin with item number 6, foreign service, and then we will continue with other firmly ranked points, and at the same time we must decide how we will proceed to this interrupted point. I would also like to point out that tomorrow at 8 a.m., a meeting of the Presidents of the various political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies is convened by the Prime Minister to address the Czech Republic's positions for negotiations with the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland in view of their outcome, a referendum on the withdrawal from the European Union. I would therefore like to draw attention to the fact that this will be preceded by this meeting of the political party chairmen. I thank the Senator, the Senator, the Minister, and we will discuss the continuation of this point tomorrow at 9 o'clock. Please note that there will also be a need to agree on how we will discuss the presence of senators, virtually. Senators, secure. At this point, I am declaring a recess for a meeting of the ODS MP. The next performer will be Mr František Laudát, who is first in line if priority rights are not exercised. Have a good evening and I look forward to seeing you tomorrow morning.
