ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u1	4. Government bill on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 /German press 2/ - third reading
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u2	Colleagues, fellow Members, thank you for the floor, Mr President, Government. So I didn't forget what I was going to say, but I'm kind of confused about what I'm doing right now, so I'm really gonna cut it short. So I just wanted to appeal to our colleagues - Mr Kováčik will certainly not disturb - through the President. I wanted to appeal to you, to the entire Chamber of Deputies, so that we really behave responsibly, so that the budget approved by the former government, even if there are penetrations in the ministers, we can say that it was not the full ex-government, but it was another government, where the ANO movement was sitting, where the majority or majority was the CSSD and we had KDU-ČSL there, and this budget was built long, bloody and ministers of these three parties applied what they needed and what they felt needed. I don't think they were people who weren't competent in their work, and I would really regret sending this job to a very different place with one clumsy vote or a set of votes. I think that we will still have three budgets ahead of us in this parliamentary term, where we can come together, where we can really involve all our stimuli, all our ideas, and I really want to beg, in particular, the ČSSD and the KDU-ČSL, to minimise any efforts to reduce this budget by some ill-considered amendments, respectively. Complicate. We are really at risk of a budgetary make-up, which I would regret, although I think we are all responsible enough not to admit this, but if the amendments go wrong in any way, then the things that we wanted and that we know are needed, that means adding to the elderly, adding to the teachers, adding to the police, adding to the armed forces, that is, where it is undervalued in the long term. And, after all, the social services, where we will still be discussing what the amount of social services should be. So, once again, I appeal to everyone to take this into account and to minimize any - I cannot, of course, prohibit it, every MP is a souvenir, but I beg that we let the budget breathe so that we let it go as it is built, with minimal adjustments, so that the government can prove that it can work with such a budget and that it will have good results. So I'm asking you again, especially our former coalition partners, to hold this budget, because they were building it together, and they know how bloody and complicated that budget was born. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u3	Now two facts. President Bartošek, then Mr Onderka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u4	Thank you. Mr Free through the President, I reject the accusation that we are acting irresponsiblely. That's what you said. To be responsible. Because we are dealing with nothing but the election of the chairman of the Commission for the Control of the Activities of the General Inspection of the Security Corps. That means we're dealing with a pretty crucial issue. We are in favour of continuing to discuss the budget, and for this reason I am asking the President at what stage we are discussing, how we will proceed, so that he can tell all the Members and Members how the negotiations will look at the moment, whether we are closing the vote point, we are going to go about the budget, we are going to discuss it, and we are going to adapt accordingly to the speakers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u5	I've announced that point 22 has been interrupted, that is, after we've negotiated the state budget, I assume - yes, of course, we're at point 4. Mr. Onderka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u6	Mr President, colleagues. Mr Freeman, through the President, social democracy has announced its proposals for amending the budget immediately, one might say, after the elections, after the October elections. These are modifications that are very important for us and for the Czech Republic. If I had to go structurally, of course mostly for individual regions. And you, of course, as ANO, have many captains in the Czech Republic. Even today, and we are talking about social services, the amount of the contribution that is important within the Czech Republic is a qualified estimate. And that qualified estimate is about 15 billion. It is indisputable that 3.4 billion will be missing in the Czech Republic within the budget of the Czech Republic for next year to finance these social services. When you call on social democracy, through Mr President, to be responsible, I call on YES to be responsible. I think this is not a political priority for individual political parties, but it is a priority for all the political actors that are in the Chamber of Deputies. Therefore, I call on you to do a meeting within the framework of this budget and let us try another common speech for such an important thing as the financing of social services in the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u7	I thank Mr Onderk, Mr Zahradník will continue the discussion. Mr Ferjenčík will now take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u8	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I understand that this will be very difficult in this emotional atmosphere to draw your attention to the debate on the draft state budget. Plus, if I want to comment on a chapter that doesn't make up his spine. To Chapter 315 of the Ministry of Environment. Colleagues and colleagues who were members of the House in the past period will probably remember that I have always been critical of this chapter in recent years. Even today, I would like to express my critical opinion on the form and content of this chapter. It is also possible to criticize this form because, for several years, the text of the proposal repeats the same text in which the official who processed it will always copy the new numbers that follow the chapter for the year. What about the material content here are a few things I would like to remind you of. For one thing, there is a 25 percent reduction in revenue and expenditure, from 16 billion last year to 12 billion - roughly, perhaps more, almost 13 billion. It is said that this is because it has been established by the decision of the Minister of Finance a limit for budgeting expenditure in the area of EU funds and financial mechanisms to 70 billion, which is reflected here very significantly and probably because essentially half of the volume of this chapter is actually made up of money from European Union funds. There is also a decline in items that seemingly have nothing to do with this. So it can be criticized and here, of course, all appeals to the importance of this resort, to the fight against drought, to the fight against climate change and to the protection of nature are shown only symbolically. Another thing I would like to mention, and that is one that has been one of our topics for the past three years. We discussed here and eventually decided on the amendment of the Nature and Landscape Act, which was actually the Act on National Parks, especially the National Park of Šumava. We all know that. I'm sure we all remember how the debate was conducted here. It's funny, the novel was actually all national parks built into one plane. It was established that more than half of their territory would be left without intervention, it would not be allowed to interfere, manage or enter - perhaps. So it is no matter what park it is - Krkonoše National Park, Šumava, Podyjí, Bohemian Switzerland. It is interesting to look at the subsidies received by the national park contribution organisations, how to assess these subsidies. The money is in the order of more than hundreds or tens, perhaps more than hundreds of millions of crowns for the individual parks. But what's interesting is if we look at how the subsidies look converted into a hectare of area. Thus the National Park Administration of the Krkonoše National Park receives CZK 3,320 per hectare. The Šumava National Park Administration receives CZK 1 797 per hectare. National Park Administration Podyjí 4 250 CZK per hectare and Administration of the National Park Czech Switzerland 5 875 CZK per hectare area. One does not need to be an environmental expert in order not to ask himself what it is that a third of the costs per hectare of the Šumava National Park is budgeted as per hectare of the Czech Switzerland National Park. It's starting to show. I mean, with the other parks, it's all just declaratory. These are actually small areas protected, such a reservation, whereas Šumava with 70,000 hectares, it is a really large territory, there are municipalities on its territory and the state has really assumed the intention of turning half the area of Šumava into a wilderness. And it's manifesting itself. The director of the National Park Administration is already starting to release employees who should take care of nature in Šumava. It's just starting to become very clear. So that's what the general critical approach is. I'm not going to the next item. Rather, I would like to comment and recommend to you the three amendments that we have tabled concerning environmental protection. It's not a hundred million-dollar move. These are movements in the order of CZK 10 million, but in my opinion they are symbolic and deserve me to comment here. The first proposal concerns a contribution for non-governmental non-profit organisations, which have a total of CZK 42 million in the state budget. One item listed only in the tabular part of CZK 22 million is not mentioned anywhere in the text section, so we can only guess what it can be and who it can be. Then there is a 20-million-dollar non-investment subsidy to be implemented in the form of a grant system that should provide grants from 30 grand to a maximum of 200 grand per project. With each organisation being able to submit two projects. There has already been a call for this, which states that last year, this programme covered 80 programmes. [[projects?]] If we do the math, we say, well, not everyone will be the lowest, not even the highest, let's say we average it to 110 thousand CZK per support, multiply it by 80, we'll go to 8 million 800 thousand CZK. So it turns out that the $20 million is too much. Therefore, I propose to take at least CZK 10 million out of this item and move them to the expenditure circuit to improve the state of nature and landscape, namely the programme Supporting the restoration of natural functions of the landscape, there increase the CZK 10 million. We're still talking about drought, we're talking about the need to keep water in the countryside, we're talking about the need to face climate change, etc., but when it comes to financing these activities, the deed has escaped. I therefore ask that we consider the support of my amendment, which he has read and to which my colleague Jan Bauer has signed up and has the number B10. [[16.40 hours]] Another proposal we come up with is a proposal to support municipalities in national parks. We well know that this concerns the municipalities on whose cadastrals the National Park of Šumava is located. There are no other municipalities. Elsewhere, municipalities with jurisdiction have no injury. Here is the damage that comes from the fact that the forest property of these villages, the forest territory in their cadastrals, is not paid property tax. It's 6 million so far. I suggest we raise it by 10 million and change the situation a little bit, where Modrava, for example, has 7.5 thousand hectares of forest on its cadastral and receives this compensation to 321 hectares merely. So give the possibility, the space to change this, and the municipalities in the Šumava National Park in this way a little help. Where do you get it? Of course, it is always necessary to look for a source for these resources. I would certainly not do this at the expense of repaying the debt or its service, but I found that there is a transfer item to international organisations in the draft state budget. We meet here from time to time with a contract, with our membership of an international organization, which is sometimes very strange, very debatable, but we say to ourselves, we're members, we just have to put the money there. There was always 280 million crowns. Year after year, the amount was the same. And suddenly we have 230 million crowns in this year's budget. It's probably in the context of the general cuts in the 70 billion, as the Treasury decided last time. But there's no European money being drawn here, and we didn't get out of any organization much, so it's possible to assume that the money is designed from above. Someone thought of it, wrote 280, then found out he had to save money, so he wrote 230 today. So I don't think it's gonna be our jurisdiction to international organisations and our duty to do anything to take 10 million more from here and put them on compensation to municipalities in the territory of national parks. So I suggest we take that amount from those transfers to international organizations. Finally, the third proposal tabled by my colleague Vojtěch Munzar, to which I had the honour to apply, reduces by 10 million contributions from Cenia. This is an organization we know when we remember the environmental report that we take note of every year. Cenia's the one who wrote the report. And now he's going to get an extra $16 million. We propose to take 10 million from this contribution organization and move them to a sub-programme to support the planting of insulation greenery in the intravilion, which has been announced since 2013 under the Landscape Care Programme. This is specifically the planting of tree lines around the roads in the municipalities, which, in our view, is a very valuable thing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the proposal - the previous one is B11, B10 are the nonprofits, B11 transfers. And B55 is this proposal, which I have now briefly presented. So these three proposals, if they are voted on, I recommend your attention and I beg you to support them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u9	Thank you. Mr. Ferjenčík. Mr Klaus will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u10	Hello. Thanks for the word. First of all, on the procedure - we would like to ask the Pirates Club to take part in the vote on the Committee's proposals, where, at Mr Kalousek's request, the Freedom Warriors' Union has already been separated, to vote separately on the A1 through A5. That's one request. And on to the budget. We have long advocated wage increases in social services, and I confess that I am a little disappointed in the outcome. We were first promised that there would be an accompanying resolution, which would oblige the government to make amends during the year. However, the accompanying resolution was unfortunately not loaded. Whether it is a technical error or an intention, it is simply wrong in our view, because it was the original agreement on the Committee on Budgets that, in addition to the 1.5 billion that the Ministry of Finance will find, the accompanying resolution will come to that. Furthermore, we were promised that the Minister of Finance would promise to find it over the course of the year, but instead she promised to negotiate with the regions on how this would be resolved. So we're not really happy about this, so we're going to consider supporting this PN52 proposal. We'll discuss it at the club at the break that was announced. Otherwise, I would like to ask for the support of the pirate amendments, which means 66 and 67. 66 is more symbolic. What's important to us is the 67, where it's an increase in funding for students in doctoral studies in universities. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u11	Thank you. Mr. Mr. Klaus. Madam Aulická will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening. First of all, I'd like to wish everyone a happy holiday, because today's the last time I'm performing, so I won't have the chance. About three hours ago, I joined the debate. In the meantime, I found out a lot about the budget of the Dawn movement, the Senate budget. I've had one successful, one failed and one invalid choice. But I would like to comment on the budget after all. So to be precise, as I understand it, about the budget proposed by the KDU and the ČSSD, because Mr Babiš was distancing himself from this budget, even though the ANO movement will probably vote for him. Let us be clear, the budget has a 50-billion-dollar deficit, at a time when the economy is going well. There's no flood. There's no war either. At least, less and less money goes into investment, but a lot of money goes into social benefits, spending goes up, and fewer people in the Republic are working. This is a similar situation as if you were a family that thrives. Daddy and Mommy have a good job, the children are provided, they are all healthy, you buy no cottage or any investment, but every month you have 50,000 crowns of axe. Family like this. So that's the budget we're facing here, and which part of you is going to support and vote today. Let's be clear, it's wrong. Now three quarters of the former members of these governments and the government coalition are remembering what's still unsolved, and what else has to be thrown into this budget to defend it in front of the TV cameras. This, of course, is very unsystical and very bad. The rest, of course, are a little symbolic changes that are not going to do much of anything. Let me give you an example here: I support Mr Janda's proposal, which seeks to withdraw CZK 7 million from political non-profit organizations, such women for climate and climate change, or against climate change, I do not know exactly now. But let's be honest, most of these proposals will not pass. And even if they do, these organizations are getting hundreds of millions from the European Union, from the Norwegian funds and from Soros, so we're not going to hurt them, we're just going to make them angry. So I would like to appeal to everyone that these other proposals and so on are as brief as possible and we have accelerated the budget to an end and voted. As a whole, it's wrong. The theater today that we haven't been able to prepare the budget for four years, and now you're changing it at the last minute, it's wrong, too, but we have to go through it so that the meeting can be successfully concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u13	Thank you. Please, Madame Aulická. After that, Mrs Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u14	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, let me ask you to support my two amendments. One, as I announced at first and second reading, concerns the social-legal protection of children and it is a shift of 220 miles. I think the officers present will confirm that this is a very necessary matter and the funds that are missing in the next year's budget need to be recovered. The main amendment, which we have announced as a KSČM, concerns social services. I made two options. One is 3.3 billion. and it's under B52. The second option follows up on my fellow Volný, i.e. the amendment under No. 50. The rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets has already proposed a priori of a joint vote, because even the two option is 1.8 billion. is subject to the adoption of an amendment by Mr Volný. Much has been said here, I think that de facto today at press conferences, you have de facto declared almost across the political spectrum that it is necessary to put at least 3 billion or 3.3 billion on social services. I would therefore like to ask you to show, when voting on these amendments, that we are serious about this. Thank you so much for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u15	Thank you. Please, Mrs. Mrs. Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, let me ask you to support several amendments. The first concerns local roads and the table available to you is under the designation B42. This is an increase in grant title No. 5 to support local communications in the chapter of the Ministry for Regional Development, namely an increase of 250 million. Crowns. This grant title is intended for municipalities up to 3 thousand. population. We all know that there is a huge internal debt on local roads, and the reconstruction of local roads is often very costly. Without the use of subsidies, it is often impossible for municipalities of this size. This grant title worked already in 2016 and 2017. The request came almost 1.3 billion. Crowns. A request of 553 million was satisfied. Crowns. We often hear the argument that the municipalities were increased by the budgetary determination of taxes. If you ask any mayor, it is true, the municipalities have received more money, but they will spend much of this money on the salaries of representatives or mayors and vice-mayors. That is the first amendment. The second amendment concerns the restoration of cultural monuments and is under the designation in Table B43. Perhaps some of you will remember the exhibition of photographs of endangered real estate sites in the State Acts last year, which took place during the second and third reading of the state budget. From this exhibition it was evident that the state of a large part of cultural monuments is unsatisfactory, and even numbers confirm this. The internal debt on cultural monuments according to a study by the Ministry of Culture is 318 billion. The crown and it will grow. And that is a lot of money, and a lot of it should also be reserved in the state budget for the respective subsidy programmes to repair cultural monuments. All the more so, in this programming period, unlike the previous, only a fraction of the cultural monuments are supported by the European Union's money. They are national cultural monuments, UNESCO cultural monuments, and they are approximately 300. Cultural monuments to which European money will not reach are nearly 40,000. There is therefore clearly a strong strengthening of national subsidy programmes. We simply have to deal with the blackout of European money. And as a solution, there is absolutely no symbolic patch, as is the case in the landmark programs. If you do not support an increase of 300 million in these national conservation programmes. Kroner, there is a risk that part of the monuments will fall. The SAO also noted that there is an absolute lack of money in these programmes, and due to this deficiency, repairs are prolonged and, of course, inefficient. I therefore ask you to support this amendment, because the state that ignores cultural heritage is a disgrace. The third amendment is a proposal which is under the designation B44 and has three variants. This is an increase in the national grant title for the construction of kindergarten schools. It has three variants: 400, 300 and 250 miles. I merely remind you that I have mentioned regions where there is a great lack of capacity in kindergarten schools. I'm not gonna read them again. You can look at the log. But when your mayors in your regions ask you if you have supported this grant title, and you will have to say that you will not, you will see their reaction. I therefore ask you to support this amendment, because, as in the case of primary schools, when it was too late for grant titles, we can prevent a terrible lack of funding in terms of capacity in kindergarten schools. A serious colleague, ladies and gentlemen, the last amendment is a proposal relating to an increase in the salary of teachers in regional education and under the designation B45. Promises are meant to be fulfilled, and it doesn't have to be Christmas. We, with colleagues from the Mayors' and Independents' Club, are trying to keep this, and that is why we have prepared this amendment, which follows up on our pre-election promise to increase teachers' salaries significantly. By the way, a similar promise was made before the elections by representatives of other political parties, and in addition to the promises, there is also a public objective presented by the Ministry of Education. If we want to add to the teachers, we need to give them a raise, just promises and goals will certainly not solve it. In the draft State Budget Act for 2018, I therefore propose an increase in the regional education budget by more than 15 billion. Crowns. Now allow me to add a few more arguments to the figure. With the growth of the economy, unemployment has been reduced. If we want to keep teachers in education, then it is necessary to increase them, otherwise teachers will go to other fields. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat again what I have said here before. We are all talking about investing in infrastructure. We are talking about investing in the future in case of an increase in teacher's salaries. Finally, let me say that all the points I have mentioned in the new Government's programming statement are mentioned, and I therefore believe that you will not only be fulfilling the promises at Christmas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u17	Thank you. Mr Skopeček, after him Mr. Michálek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u18	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, colleagues. I will try to take the budget a little more generally, say some numbers that I would demonstrate why I do not consider the budget to be a good one. Deficit 50 billion. We could expect, as my colleague Klaus said, at a time of war or some kind of natural disaster. However, we live in quite a good economic time. Let me just remind you that in 2014 we grew by 2.7 %, in 2015 by 5.3 %, this year it will be more than 4.5 percent and even for next year it will be expected to grow by more than 3 %. Nor could Keynesian economists, to whom the Socialists look, suggest that we manage such a high deficit at this stage of the economic cycle. [[17,00 hours]] In my opinion, there is no argument that the budget can be better at the end of the year, as it was last year. In my opinion, this shows only the failure of the Ministry of Finance and the Minister of Finance to prepare a realistic budget when the plan at the beginning of the year is so diametrically different from the result itself. But it's not just the deficit itself. Even if it is an essential number, it is not the only number that characterizes the wrong budget. I also consider it important to mention that next year's draft budget will also increase. He's gonna keep swelling up. The revenue side will grow or plan to increase by 53 billion compared to last year's budget. Crowns. We will spend 43 billion on expenditure year-on-year according to the draft budget. More crowns. This is clear evidence that the budget is not economical, that it is a budget that further increases the redistribution and swelling of the state. Although we are growing at a decent economic rate, which I suggested a while ago, the share of taxes collected on gross domestic product is still growing. While last year it was 34 percent, the compound tax quota or the growth of the compound tax quota is calculated at 34.4 percent next year. This means that every year the state pulls more money out of taxpayers' pockets, even when the economy grows. We can't have joy even if we look at the different types of expenses. We will expect the share of mandatorial spending, i.e. statutory expenditure, in the next year, or is planned at 55.4 percent, so we can get rid of this part of the budget, because even if the government wants to, it doesn't do anything, and it doesn't have any room to use the money at its own discretion, according to its own objectives. Along with the so-called By quasi-mandatory expenditure, this expenditure package, with which nothing can be done, will amount to four fifths of the budget expenditure. So with only one fifth of the budget expenditure, the government can make an active fiscal policy according to its consideration. Even if we expect the increase in mandatorial spending by only 0.1 percentage point next year, it is still a warning number, because at a time of economic growth, where unemployment is lower, when lower social spending should be paid, even if it is a small part, it is growing, which clearly points to the disease of our public finances. At the time of the recession, there were more people without work, we would need to make social policy more active and pay more social benefits to people without work or people who would find themselves in a difficult situation because of the economic crisis, so I would understand it, but I do not understand it at a time when we have a record low unemployment rate and when we are very successful. Respectfully, I understand. The budget, both the deficit and the share of the mandatorial expenditure, is de facto an indictment of the previous government, in the sense that it has not been able to use four years of relatively decent economic growth to do anything, especially with the spending side of the budget, because that is the main problem for it to do anything about it. We've managed these four years, and that's why we have the budget that we have in front of us. Unfortunately, investment is falling in contrast to the mandatorial expenditures. In 2018, investments should fall to CZK 89.8 billion. This is less than the right-wing government was able to invest in during the economic crisis. If we convert that share of capital expenditure, or investment, into a ratio to the total expenditure of the state budget, we find that this is a decrease from 13.6 percent in 2015 to 6.6 percent in the next year. I will repeat this once again: while in 2015, investments in state budget expenditure were at 13,6 percent, in the next year it will be at only 6.6 percent. So the rumors that the previous government has invested or that the future government wants to invest are really just talk. The numbers prove the opposite. I would still like to stop at the problem of social expenditure. I would like to draw your attention to this, or to draw your attention to the fact that from the total state budget balance of CZK 1.3 trillion, CZK 649 billion will go to social spending in the next year, which, despite this economic growth, is again 5.2 percent more than last year. The growth of social expenditure is even greater than the expected growth of gross domestic product. Even if it's expected to be optimistic next year, I don't think we're gonna make it to a 5.2 percent growth. Well, at a time when social spending is growing at a faster pace than the gross domestic product itself, I think it's obvious that the budget is bad and that the government hasn't done anything for the past four years, that it's done four years, it's enjoyed the party that offered it economic growth, but unfortunately, it hasn't done anything for this company. The Civil Democratic Party has tabled a number of amendments. We are, unlike the previous and unfortunately, responsible for the new government. We have proposed savings of almost 30 billion. Crowns. We understand that we have not succeeded in rejecting the State Budget Act at first reading, for which we did not have the support, but we are proposing to move almost 30 billion at least within that balance sheet. CZK to - let's call it a reserve, she's a chapter of state debt, but it's a move, where on the one hand we think we're going to save the necessary expenses that will be available either to reduce state debt or to reduce taxes. I will mention the subject, and many of you fellow Members are proposing amendments to match social services. I am applying to the amendment formally tabled by my fellow Member, Mr Volný. The proposal was created as a compromise proposal within the framework of the debate on the Committee on Budgets. We wanted to go down the road so there wouldn't be 20 competing designs that, in quotes, would shoot each other out, and there wouldn't be anything to go through. So we asked the Deputy Finance Minister to prepare a compromise proposal that would bring social services around the billion and a half in the first phase, and then it would be dealt with during the year. All I'm going to say is that it's incomprehensible to me that the current government has been able to decide to raise money for social services, with which I agree and I have nothing against it, it has done a number of press releases to sell it to its constituents, but it has no longer included this issue in the draft state budget that we are discussing today. For me, this is incomprehensible behavior, I do not understand it, and unfortunately, the Chamber of Deputies, as a matter of fact, the Committee on Budgets must correct such a fatal failure of our current government. The last thing I want to say is whose budget it is. I was very amused when I heard the new Prime Minister say it wasn't really his budget. I remember very well that this is his budget, it's his proposal. At the time that Minister Pilný was taking turns, we were already calling on Minister Pilný to redo the bill, in particular to reduce the budget deficit, which is inadequate for economic growth. Mr. Pilný was inspiring hopes because he called himself a scrooge, so we believed that he would use his characteristics and adjust the state budget. It didn't happen. So first the budget was prepared by Minister Babiš for the YES movement, then Mr Pilný took over, also the nominee YES, who justified him here, and now we have the third Minister of Finance, also the nominee for the YES, who completes the reading of the budget, will no doubt want the state budget to pass, and will call for him, and the Prime Minister will say here that this is not his budget. [[17.10 hours]] So I really don't know whose budget it is when, during the preparation and approval process, three nominees for the YES movement were replaced, so I really don't know who else it belongs to but the YES movement. But I understand. If I had prepared such a state budget, I would have been ashamed of it, and I wouldn't have applied too much for it either. In that sense, I understand the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u19	Good afternoon, honourable Members. Let's keep going. Before we continue the debate, the apology reached the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr Koten between 16 and 17.30. I have one factual comment by Mr Fridrich and then the President of the ODS's priority right. Now, then, a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u20	Dear colleagues, we have heard such a nice trip to the history of the state budget. I'd like to add a number to that. In 2006, GDP was 6.90 and the deficit was 97.3 billion. Whoever had the Finance Minister at the time and who was Prime Minister, I don't think I'm gonna have to stress here. So I just want to say one thing. It's always easier to criticize than to create something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u21	I thank Mr Fridrich and now with priority rights the President of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjura. Mr. Jakub Michálek will be ready. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u22	Thank you. So let's do a quick reaction first. You have to say the whole thing: Jiří Paroubek was Prime Minister at the time, right? When the budget was approved. And the main government party was the Czech Social Democratic Party. The budget was approved in December 2005. So if we want to do historical excursions, please be precise. I wasn't here, but I remember whose government it was and who was the Prime Minister. But you probably didn't attack the ODS. Or if you blame us for Jiří Paroubek, don't really blame us, we've never mastered it, we've never voted, and we've fought him very hard for years. He was our great political opponent. I only applied to the procedure. For the rapporteur, on the one hand, I would like to support the proposal that has already been made in order to vote individually on the amendments to the Committee on Budgets. I wouldn't go through that again. But since, as my colleague Mr Skopeček said, I have found a total of six proposals that regulate the expenditure of the state budget towards social services, and I think it is logical to proceed from the highest to the lowest. Because logically, when one passes, others are unvoting. So, as we are going to vote on the proposals in paragraph 4, these are the B points, so I propose that we start with Amendment B61 the first option that increases social services spending by 3.5 billion. If it doesn't pass, it's B5, which is 3.4 billion. Then it's B52, variant 1 3.3 billion. Then B62/2 3 billion. Then the compromise proposal by Mr Volný, Mr Skopeček, is 1.5 billion. In addition, the additional proposal B52/2, the second variant 1.8 billion. I consider it logical for someone to be unable to make excuses: I would vote for something else but have already gone over the compromise proposal. So I'd like to ask that, within the framework, when we approve the procedures, we let the vote go. And then we would have all of those B points, as they are read in that order, except for those six. [[unintelligible]] I've lined it up not by the political affiliation of the petitioners, but by the total amount to be added to this chapter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u23	Okay, thank you for the suggestion. Mr. Jakub Michálek now. The rapporteur will take over the draft change of procedure. A colleague of Bartošek will be ready. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u24	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to come up with a somewhat more constructive proposal on which we could agree across the political spectrum, because its great advantage is that it does not take any money anywhere or create any deficit. It is a proposal that is handed out within the framework of the Parliamentary Press 2/3, and it is a motion for an accompanying resolution. So it is not among the amendments, but it is also under letter B at the beginning, as read in the debate at second reading. It is a proposal that concerns the Government's recommendation, so it is not a strict directive or anything like that, it is merely a recommendation that relates to the state budget proposal under discussion, in such a way as to strengthen the transparency of the state budget discussion and its drawing up. So it is a proposal that strengthens the transparency of public finances and recommends that the government implement the so-called 'government'. the state's clicking budget. In this would be continuously published in an open format both budget implementation and budget implementation itself, its changes etc. So far, it's only at some rudimentary level, in the state finance monitor, but we won't get there except for the specific expenses, so unfortunately it doesn't play the role of transparency in public finances. I think that if we were able to approve such a proposal, it would also improve our work, it would give us better evidence, it would be more transparent for the public, which could follow for example. the things that SPD Members have brought to the attention here, which organizations that receive grants from associations, that would all be in the clicking budget. After all, I don't even have to represent many of you, because many of you have experience from the regions where you may act as governor or regional representatives, from the municipalities where you have already deployed the clicking budget, so the logical next step is that we should take a similar step at state level, at national level, so that the ministries are going to have their clicking budget. So if you agree with the idea of strengthening transparency, then I would ask you to support this proposal of mine. I think that quite a lot of people are watching this, whether politicians are keeping their electoral promises, the atmosphere they created before the elections to do good, to strengthen the transparency of public finances, so now is really the opportunity for you to have a chance to express it by voting. Thank you for any support of this so-called. a clicking budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u25	I thank Mr Jakub Michálek. Mr Feranc's point of view. And the last one so far is Mr. Jan Bartošek. He's ready. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only to Mr Michálek through Mr President. The clicking budget, as you suggest, I've been looking at what's going on in Mariánské Lázně, where you've had mayor for three years. It's at the same level as the state budget. It doesn't go into any detail either. And if you're proposing six months for a major change in the IT system, you know that's unrealistic. And it's nothing but populist crap, pardon me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u27	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now a colleague of Michálek also wants to respond really. Please, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u28	Look, I would only respond to the previous performance to set it straight. I don't know how it is in Mariánské Lázně, but maybe in New Town, Moravia, where he has the mayor of ČSSD, I think, they have a clicking budget on the web except for individual invoices. And it works perfectly fine out there. So here's the precedent. There are even open-source applications, which means that the state does not have to pay for them and can use them to place data that is already flowing from the information systems. Those changes that are really aren't important. All you have to do is define, and it can already be done at government level with some kind of instruction on the format of data flowing from information systems that already exist in individual ministries today. If we manage to do this at state level, I believe that we will also take over the model in Mariánské Lázně, but I think that the state should set an example because it has significantly greater resources than the Mariánské Lázně, which must be squashed, with forgiveness, for every crown.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u29	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Třešňák also made a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have not only heard from the position of Member but also the mayor of the town of Mariánské Lázně. Yes, the real city of Mariánské Lázně does not have a clicking budget to the detail we would have imagined. And my previous speaker Jakub Michálek mentioned why. It is probably a rather more complex subject, which would be for a longer time than for a debate on the state budget, but if the Ministry of the Interior were the tools that would make this easier for self-government, and those software tools would be provided to self-government, it would certainly be much easier. But if I may, as far as the detail is concerned, the city of Mariánské Lázně - and I apologize, it does not really belong to the debate - has all the accounts except for the wage transparent ones. So we can actually track down all the items that the city has paid or that will come to the city's account. So, with this, I thank only for a brief factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u31	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact, and I am a tolerance myself, although it is not a state budget. Now, then, Mr Jan Bartošek, so far the last one entered into the debate at the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u32	Thank you, Mr President, for the floor. Dear fellow Members, I would like to sum up the basic reasons why I tabled an amendment to the draft law on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018, governing the area of financing the prevention of the development of pathological addictive behaviour. The government decided to increase the pay rates of mine a while ago. in social services by 23 per cent and in the public sphere by 10 per cent. This increase also applies to organisations that reward according to wages, i.e. non-state organisations. Unfortunately, this financial need has not yet been fully reflected in the draft state budget, e.g. 3 billion missing for all social services. Crowns. I hope that's one of the things we're going to be actively dealing with today. Moreover, the situation is significantly more complicated for drug prevention and treatment services involving social, health and services services at the border of these two expertises. These services are provided by more than 80 per cent of non-state organisations and are financed by multi-source, mainly public budgets. In order to implement this increase in wages, it is necessary, in addition to the increase by one of the ministries, in this case the MPSV, also other departments participating in the implementation of drug policy and central coordinating body, i.e. the Office of the Government, the DEA, to respond by increasing their subsidy budgets so that this measure can be implemented in practice as a systemic measure. It is also irrelevant that these services provided by non-state organisations have no alternative in the form of budget, contribution or private facilities. For example, field programs and contact centres, services essential for prevention of HIV and other infectious diseases provide almost exclusively non-state organisations. Individual departments participating in the implementation of drug policy in the preparation of their budgets for 2018 have completely ignored the fact that, even in funding, grant titles, personnel costs for social services workers are included and, if there is an increase in salaries and wages, it is necessary to increase accordingly the respective grant titles from which these workers are paid for in 2018 as well. About one third of the planned funds are already missing to secure the current network of services, which is evidenced by many studies and analyses from recent years. Deficiencies of between 50 and 150 miles are documented. Crowns. The availability of drug prevention and treatment programmes in the Czech Republic is not uniform. Low-koprah programme of contact center type is missing in 21 districts, medical ambulance for dependence in 37 districts, substitution therapy for addiction to opioids in 25 districts, specialized treatment program in 61 districts, detoxification beds in 55 districts and 2 regions, bed care in the area of addiction in 4 regions and therapeutic community for dependents missing in 3 regions. At its meeting on 24 July 2017, the Government Council adopted a resolution which, among others, adopted a resolution on the threat of personnel crisis as a result of a deficit in the financing of drug prevention and treatment services. It asked the Government of the Czech Republic to take this into account when establishing the State Budget for 2018 and to increase the relevant ministries' funding for 2018. At the same time, this Government Council asked the relevant ministries to reflect the claims described in the 2018 subsidy proceedings. At its next meeting on 2 November, the same Government Council noted that the draft state budget did not reflect those recommendations and that there was no increase in funding. Just a few numbers for comparison. In 2000, a total of 181 177 000 were earmarked in the state budget for the cross-cutting indicator of the drug policy programme. CZK, which accounts for a share of the budget of 0.29 per million. In 2014, it reached only 109 896 thousand, the total share of the budget decreased to 0.09 per mile. For 2018, this cross-cutting indicator shall be 187 506 thousand. CZK, which is the share of 0.14 per mile of the total expenditure of the State budget for 2018. It is therefore clear that the budget will not reach an absolute amount of 2000 in this item even next year. Even more significant is this disproportion, if we put the amount of 2000 in constant prices, i.e. excluding inflation. This amount amounts to a total of 249 910 thousand at constant prices in 2015. CZK, total 251 659 thousand in 2016. CZK and in 2018 it is CZK 255 million. Crowns. At the same time, in order to prevent the unwanted departure of workers from services that are actually at risk in the current situation next year, while maintaining a network of these services and their capacities to the extent necessary, a minimum increase in the chapter of the Office of the Government, the Department of Drug Policy, is needed by 70 million. Crowns. I've listed a number of numbers. I have tried to outline at least the most pressing problems facing this segment of services, and I believe that these are factual and compelling reasons why this area needs to be addressed. I therefore ask you, colleagues, to support my amendment to the draft law on the State Budget, House Press 2. It is an amount that is not essential to the state budget, but believe it will do a lot of useful work in the area of drug prevention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u33	I thank Mr Jan Bartošek. I now have Mr Stanislav Juránek's application. With priority rights? [[Members of Farsky.]] In that case, Mr Juránek. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u34	Thank you for the opportunity to come forward. First of all, I want to say for KDU-ČSL that we're applying to this budget. That's the first thing. And the other thing. I mean, most of the parties in the budget have dealt with the very social issue. And the reason is simple, but I want to define it exactly. There are currently 11.6 billion in the budget. CZK and according to estimates - or someone thinks they are exact numbers - have worked out individual clubs to the number that it takes either 3.5 billion, or 3 405 388 288 CZK, or 3.3 billion. When we look at this from the point of view of the impact it has on social services, there is a matter that each fifth service will be cancelled in the current budget. So if we don't complete this matter in this social sphere, we'll either have all of those organizations ending up together in the middle of October next year, because 2.5 months aren't paid, or part of those services will go away. What is important about this budget in order to remedy this issue is precisely the fact that we all need social services. And in the context of these social services, because it has applied to this subject - I have been careful - in the course of the debate a total of seven political clubs, I am convinced that this particular item should be changed. Otherwise, I always have an idea that the budget is somehow set up and that it should make as little changes as possible. And I believe that every budget can be challenged, but that my predecessors have been working on this budget, because I am the new Member here, and that there are a number of good things that are in that budget, we cannot say out loud right now, because it would take much more time than the amendments, but that this is the reason for me to vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u35	Thank you, Mr Juránek. Mr Farský is still reporting. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I would like to ask you to draw attention to several amendments. It's change. They are small in this budget, which has more than 1.3 beats. The crown in you. They're change, but they can do a lot of good work. These are amendments under B43 and B44 by Mrs Věra Kovářová. It is an amendment that increases the chapter of promoting cultural monuments, let's say something in which we have a responsibility to our ancestors, as they may maintain, from 700 miles. 1 billion. CZK, only within the budget 300 million. Crowns that will be seen. Then it's support for the construction of kindergartens. There are responsibilities here for the children to be accepted in the preschool year to receive two-year-olds, but capacity doesn't match that. The communities were obliged to take care of themselves, but then let them worry about what they can do. And I think we should be able to accommodate them in that, too. We propose to increase this chapter by "again only" 400 miles in the first version of Amendment B44. Crowns. It's not a big amount, but it can do a lot of work. This is also due to the fact that in the past grant programmes for kindergartens have been published, municipalities have invested tens of millions in documentation, they often have projects prepared under construction permit, but subsidies have somehow disappeared and are no longer available for kindergartens. And what else should we invest in other than our children who are our future? Then there is Amendment B42, also a relatively low amount to support the repair of local communications. I would also like to ask for the support of B7, the proposal by Petr Gazdík, which proposes strengthening the chapter of support for youth organisations by 28 million. Crowns. In sum, these are relatively low amounts in the budget, we can fit into 1 billion. CZK, which is certainly possible to move that amount within the budget. Finally, we saw this in a situation where, on the agricultural committee, a Member of Tureček proposed to move the agrifood complex 1 billion. The crown, and suddenly appeared as a wave of a magic wand. And I believe that kindergarten, monuments and youth are as important to you as the agrifood complex. I believe that you will give your attention to these proposals. Then, as starosta and independents, we took the liberty of proposing another change. And they let me say that because it's not just our proposal. It is a proposal for all parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, and it is a proposal for us to increase the budget of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by some 15 billion. Crowns. It's a large amount, it's transfers within the budget. But I do not make this proposal as much as ours and for the fact that we are fulfilling some of our vows here, but we are fulfilling a promise for all the parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, when everyone before the elections was telling teachers how they would be adding, how they would try to increase their wages, so that education could be improved as soon as possible, so that we would have a nation of educated people, well-paid people who could face misinformation campaigns that could make decisions and succeed in a more complex and complex labour market. People who aren't just employees to montoven and some professions that are low-paid, and when we'll always be a supplier to larger companies, but where we'll actually create the highest possible value. And that step is simple. I really do. Add it where it is needed to add teachers so that teachers are not just those who are convinced of their mission and actually sacrifice even their education that would bring them much more financial satisfaction in other fields. For this reason, we propose that the promise made by all parties before the elections be fulfilled. It's not at the expense of raising the government's debt. It's about moving. It is about moving from chapters that have not been exhausted in recent years, and it is a prerequisite that they will not be exhausted in the next year. That's why the money won't even be missed in the budget somewhere else. I ask you to consider the support and ideally support these proposals. They are not large sums, and all of them correspond to the draft programming statement by the government, published yesterday evening by the ANO movement for its minority government. So I hope that the votes of the members of the ANO movement and others will be added to our votes. Thank you for your attention and support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u37	Thank you, Mr Farský. He was the last one to be logged in to the debate, if anyone else is applying... I'm looking. Nobody's checking in, I'm done with the debate. Is the Minister or the rapporteur interested in the final word? It's not like that. So I can proceed with the announcement of a break for the ANO club meeting, but also for other member clubs. We had a deal for 30 minutes. This means that at 18.05 we would meet for a hearing and proceed immediately to the vote. So I'm declaring a recess for the assembly of the MPs. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u38	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Government, we will continue after a break at the club meeting, by discussing the procedure and voting on the various drafts of the state budget. Your colleague Birke reporting with a point of fact? [[No.]] It's not like that. But I don't see the Minister of Finance, so I'm going to wait a little longer, because without it, we certainly couldn't discuss the state budget. I'm stating an apology. The President of the Chamber of Deputies apologizes from 18.05 to 18.20 hours for working reasons, Mr Jaroslav Dvořák. I don't see the chairman of the ANO club asking him where the secretary is. [[Still waiting.]] I have one request of a procedural nature. Since the state budget is a law and it is 6:07 p.m., I expect at least one procedural motion to vote after 7:00 p.m. I see the chairman of the ANO club is already reporting. You have the floor, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u39	Thank you for the floor. Have a nice evening. Let me propose, on behalf of the club of the ANO movement and social democracy, that today we act in a procedural and territorial manner and vote after 19 and 21 o'clock. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u40	Okay. I will vote on this proposal without debate, in the vote number 42, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 42 from 194 Members present for 152, versus 3. The motion was accepted. It means that today we will continue to act after 19 or after 21 o'clock. We will take the vote on the procedure. I ask the rapporteur to repeat it. But the chairman of the pirate party is reporting. With priority rights or procedure? The procedure, Mr. Chairman? You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u41	Good evening, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues. At the club meeting, we discussed the procedural proposals for the order of vote and concluded that the pirát would support the vote as proposed in the original order. B50 - Mr Volný's proposal, where the consensual proposal of the majority of Members is, and at the same time fifty-two in that variant is two. Our reason is that on the first one, on the billion and a half, there's a match. Information came from the Ministry of Finance, it's budget-supported. And the supplementary law, which actually raises the total amount to 3.3 billion, is the most sensitive to the state budget compared to the original draft vote from the highest amount, where the actual amount of 3.5, and as it goes down, they have no support. [[Proposal]] So we believe that there will be support on the one hand for the proposal that has support in the budget according to the Ministry of Finance, and subsequently on proposal 52, which adds up to a total amount of 3.3 billion for social payouts and services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u42	Mr President, but doesn't this mean any procedure other than what has been proposed so far? [[No.]] Well, thank you. I'm going to ask the chairman of the club of the ANO movement and a colleague of the Freeman to clear the room at the speaker's desk. [[They're both talking to the Prime Minister sitting in a government stand.]] I'll ask for a repeat of the procedure, rapporteur. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u43	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. So I've been making notes about the counter-surveillances or the demands that have been made, so I'd like to make a motion for a voting procedure that should be put to the vote by now. If I forget anything, colleagues, please keep an eye on me and let me know. The draft voting procedure shall be as follows: First of all, we will vote on the amendments to the amendments to the Committee on Budgets. These are proposals in Annex 2b: proposal B68 by Mrs Vostrá, this is a legislative technical proposal and this proposal will no longer be voted on when voting on items. [[18.10 hours]] We would then vote on the proposal in Annex 1, which is proposal B1 of Mr Hamáček, proposal B2 of Mr Filip. Both of these proposals are reflected simultaneously in the numerical changes in Part 2b, respectively B14 and B20, which will no longer be voted on, this is in Annex B2 (?). Secondly, we would vote on the Committee's proposals in Annex 1, as amended by the amendments approved, by voting separately on the A1 and voting in point A2, with the first vote being on the Union of Czech Freedom Fighters, and the second vote being en bloc rest, the five institutions as you have in the table. Then we would vote on the Committee's proposals for amendments to the figures, as amended by the amendments approved in Annex 2a. This will not be one vote, because a proposal has been made for it to be individually on a single basis. Then we will vote on the proposals from the second reading debate individually, by voting first on the counterproposal that has been made, that is to put forward the points that are behind us - please check - B61/1, B5, B52/1, B61/2, B50 and B52/2. If this counter-proposal fails, we would vote and place Amendment B50, which is an additional consensual proposal by a majority of Members of the Committee on Budgets, and then we would vote on Amendment 52 in variant 2, which is directly linked to proposal B50. Then we would have already voted in the order set out in the table in Annex 2b. Once we have voted on these proposals, then we could vote on the motion for a resolution as a whole and then we would vote on accompanying resolutions and also individually. I think that we should deal with reading the budget. This is the proposal that I put forward for the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u44	Thank you to the rapporteur. Mr. Ferjenčík. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u45	Thank you for the floor. I wanted to ask for clarification on the A2 table because we have proposed that Amendments A1, A2, A3, A4 and A5 should vote separately. I don't understand why they're being assigned - I feel like the A5 is actually being assigned to others. Or exactly how it is?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u46	Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u47	I shall repeat this, one thing concerning the amendments, Annex 2a, which are the amendments that arose at second reading, have been approved by the Committee on Budgets and are from the various committees. The Committee on Budgets recommends them. Yes? These will be voted individually on points. A1 to A5. Excellent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u48	Is Stanjura's colleague satisfied? Satisfied. Okay. The Prime Minister has yet to comment. You may, of course, speak with priority rights, Mr President. [[There are voices that will open up the debate.]] There's nothing I can do about it. If anyone with priority rights wants to open a debate, there's nothing I can do about it. Prime Minister of the Czech Republic Andrej Babiš with priority rights with risk of opening the debate at third reading. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u49	Thank you. I'm sorry, I got the assignment to get off, so I want to get off. [[He's laughing.]] I would just repeat for the record, there was a debate that this budget wasn't being prepared by this winter government or whatever it's called. But, of course, we support this budget. I would just remind my colleagues that I did the budget in May, then I got fired, and I didn't do the current budget anymore, but that's the detail. So I'm sure we'll be very happy if you show us where the budget is wasted in the course of next year, and we'll definitely work together. Bring us a list where we can save money. The clicking budget was my dream when I joined the Treasury, because that's what they are in business. The Treasury cost $6 billion, and I didn't click anything. So I'm sure I'd like that. And we're ready to do government agents for the clicking budget, and the pirát will be able to show us how it's done. I'm sure we'll support you in clicking. So we're ready, and I'm sure our government will support it, and it will do its utmost to find more money in the budget and on the roads of the second and third classes in the regions. We will certainly be helpful and waiting for specific savings and we will certainly be ready to make a reduction in the costs of the entire state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u50	Thank you, Prime Minister. Since the debate has been opened, I must give the floor with priority rights to the chairman of the ODS Club Zbyněk Stanjur. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u51	Thank you for the floor. It's a tossed glove. We're 28.2 billion. We did, we'll be voting on them in a minute. I agree that's not enough. We'll do our best. For time reasons, we have not been able to examine every chapter book in detail, but in a moment we will show the vote whether you are serious. 28,2 billion. wasted spending, that's real stuff. These are real things, I'm not going to comment on them one by one, it's in the explanatory report, they're all real things, they're all unnecessary expenses, subsidies, where there's cotton wool, where there's unnecessarily high spending on building savings, record low unemployment, so we can reduce unemployment benefits, we can reduce benefits in material distress, we can reduce other social benefits, especially housing supplements. These are all real designs that lie on the table today, we don't have to wait until next year. [[18.20 hours]] But I promise that, in addition, we will bring more troops up to tens of billions, because it really wasn't possible for time reasons. And we're about to see if you're serious, if this government is serious. We did it for you, 28 billion we found. I understand your former coalition partners weren't looking for them. We weren't involved in the budget. But if I understand correctly, that budget is only wanted by the Social Democrats and the KDU. Otherwise, no one really wants it. But then he doesn't stand a chance, does he? You have it all together, now I don't want to count it, 25 Members, and that is not the majority in the Chamber of Deputies. So again, when we vote on this proposal as a whole, it will show who really wants or doesn't want this budget. We think he's bad. I'm not gonna repeat myself, but the savings are really on the table today and we're definitely gonna bring in during the first spring or winter months, it doesn't matter, other possible savings. It's already a very difficult procedure there. That we would propose from the opposition a law that changes the state budget, that would probably be the first time in history, and it is not quite good. So I'd rather expect the ministers to come and chase through the savings and say, "We've found savings, our predecessor saw it too wasted, he wanted to waste too much, we found expenses there, so let's put them in defense, to safety, to transport infrastructure. Let's see.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u52	Thank you, Mr Zbyněk Stanjur. Since I see no one else reporting for the debate, I am ending the debate. We will therefore address the approval of the proposed procedure, where all the applicants have already agreed to the procedure, as the rapporteur has read it before the vote. We will decide by voting procedure number 43, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 43, from the present 197 for 193, against no one, the procedure has been approved. Therefore, we will proceed according to individual points, as the procedure has been proposed. [[The rapporteur, Mr Vostrá, is speaking with Mr Stanjura.]] Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u53	We're gonna have to finish the counterproposal, but that's gonna be under procedure, which is where I read it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u54	Yes, that's what it's read by... That's why I specifically asked President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u55	Now we've agreed to the procedure, and the procedure includes the vote on your counterproposal. [[Members of Stanjure. Opposite expressions from the diaper.]] Yeah, that's right, I was saying what we're going to vote on, first of all, we're going to vote on this, this, this, this, the counterproposal, if it doesn't pass, we're going to vote on B...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u56	Now we're voting on the detail of the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u57	No, Mr Vice-President, you have approved the procedure as a whole, including my amendments. I was expecting to vote on my amendments first, if they fail, we will vote on the original as a whole. So I think that now we can either revisit the resolution and start right, or you can deal with voting the B's, like I suggested. We cannot vote on deciding on another vote. That's just not how you approve of the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u58	I can, of course, have the tape brought in. But in the procedure that the rapporteur here read, the individual points were said, which we will then decide on the procedure on that particular point. Isn't that right? That's right. I asked that question before the beginning of the meeting. I was of the opinion that you say, Mr President. But the rapporteur said she has this procedure, it is approved, we will proceed. Madam rapporteur, first draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u59	So the first proposal is in Annex 2b, it is the proposal B68 by Mrs Vostrá. This is a legislative technical proposal, which will not be voted on in the course of individual items. There is only an explanation of the names - titles from which funds will be drawn.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u60	Mr. Chairman Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u61	I'm sorry. How do we proceed in point 4? You're about to initiate the procedure under point 1 and I don't think we're clear on how we're going to proceed in point 4. Just so we're clear. After all, we cannot vote in substance on individual proposals and then in the middle decide how we will continue to vote in a procedural manner. I don't think that's possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u62	The rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u63	If I may, my colleague, I have read here a draft procedure that no one has objected to. And the draft procedure, I'll admit it was unstandard, but I've read it, I can repeat it here. Yes? So I read that first we will vote on B68, then in Annex 1 to proposal B1, B2 etc., I came to point 2 where I said that we would vote on the proposals in Annex 1, and I accepted that A1 will be separately, A2 will be voted separately - about the Warriors' Union and the second vote will be en bloc. I have taken the next vote, so I will repeat the whole thing here, which was that we will vote on the Committee's proposals for amendments to the numbers of the proposed amendments in Annex A2 (?), namely, individually after points A1 to A5. Then I came up with the fact that, fourthly, we will vote on the proposals from the second reading, as they have said, individually, by voting on the counter-proposal first. And now I've read the counterproposal - first B61/1, B5 3,4 etc. If this counterproposal does not work, then we will vote on B50 and then on B52 in variant 2. That's what the proposition of the procedure sounded like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u64	Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u65	I totally agree with that, but in order to do the right thing, the Vice-President should have voted first as we proceed in point 4, and then approved the procedure as a whole according to the result of the vote, whether it will be based on the size or whether it will be B50 first. We cannot vote first on individual amendments to the budget and then in the middle of the procedure. So that's it. Otherwise, you read it correctly, the proposal is fine, only Vice-President Filip should have made the decision in point 4 first and then approved the procedure as a whole. That is the only thing, Mr President, that can be fixed very quickly so that we do not have to argue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u66	There. Before I ask anyone to question the President's procedure, I will simplify this by letting them vote separately now at the beginning, who agrees to change the procedure, as suggested by Mr Zbyněk Stanjura. Are we clear on what point we are voting on? The rapporteurs of the various factions understand what the vote will be about? [[There's no objection.]] This means that President Bartoš spoke about this because he accepted the proposal that was for the procedure, and colleague Stanjura proposed an amendment to the procedure before, and that was included, part of the procedure. Nevertheless, I will have Mr Zbyněk Stanjura's counter-proposal voted at the beginning. I ask who is in favour of the amendment to the procedure proposed by Mr Stanjura. Who's in favour - vote 44. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 44, from the presence of 197 for 40, against 88. The motion was not accepted. So we will proceed according to the originally approved procedure. We can begin, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u67	I'm glad we had a deal. So I'm starting over. So we will be the first to vote on the amendment in Annex 2b, it is the proposal B68 by Mrs Vostrá. This is a legislative technical proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u68	Madam Secretary, your position. [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 45. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 45, from the presence of 197 for 196, against no one. The motion has been approved.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u69	Furthermore, we will be voting in Annex 1 to the proposal B1 by Mr Hamáček.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u70	Yes. Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 46 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 46 of 197 present for 90, against 76. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u71	Then we will vote on the amendment to Annex 1 to the proposal by Mr Filip B2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u72	Opinion? [[- Disagree.]] I've started voting number 47 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 47 of 197 present for 40, against 149. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u73	We will now vote on the draft budget committee in Annex 1, as amended by the amendments, by voting on the A1 first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u74	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started voting number 48, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 48 of 197 present for 195, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u75	We will now vote on the A2 in the table on the list of subsidies - the vote on row one - the Czech Union of Freedom Warriors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u76	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started voting number 49 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 49 of 197 present for 126, against 62. The motion was accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u77	Now we're going to vote on the rest of A2, that's the remaining five associations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u78	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started voting number 50, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 50 of 197 present for 196, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u79	We will now vote on the Committee's proposals for amendments to the figures, as amended by the amendments approved in Annex 2a, individually, this Annex.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u80	Yes. Okay, first draft.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u81	So it's the first design A1.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u82	Madam Secretary's position? [[Agreed.]] I've started voting number 51 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order number 51 out of 197 for 196, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u83	Proposal A2.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u84	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started voting number 52 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 52 of 197 present for 136, against 36. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u85	Amendment A3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u86	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started voting number 53 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 53 of the 197 present for 169, versus 2. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u87	Amendment A4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u88	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started voting number 54 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 54 of the 197 present for 172, against no one. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u89	The next draft of the last of the annex is A5.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u90	Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] I've started voting number 55 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 55 of 197 present for 195, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u91	We will now vote on the proposals from the second reading debate, individually, as they have been said. You've all got it in writing. If you don't mind, I won't discuss it here. And it's Annex 2b. We will start by putting the vote on Amendment B50, which is an additional consensual proposal by the majority of the members of the Committee on Budgets to social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u92	Okay. Opinion? [[- Agreed.]] Okay. I've started voting number 56 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 56 from 197 for 195. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u93	We will now vote on Amendment 52 in variant 2, which is directly linked to proposal B50. They're social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u94	Okay, so that's 52 of variant 2. Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 57 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 57 of 197 present for 195, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u95	Yes. And now we're gonna go as they go...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u96	We'll wait for a legislative meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u97	I'm sorry, colleagues. Before we start those individual points from Annex No. 2b, just as we voted on Amendment A2, which has passed, there is still a need to vote on the text before the table, which we therefore did not vote on and which I therefore have to load. So if you don't mind, I'll read the text. The table is voted out. The text reads: "Article 1 (12), including footnote 1, is added. 1 is read: the list of subsidies granted in 2018 from the listed chapters of the State budget, with the indication of their beneficiaries, indicating their amount, which are not subject to the scheme under the specific legislation, is set out in Annex No. 9 to this law." [[12]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u98	Yes. That's just adding to the "A." The budget committee resolution will be decided in the 58 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the text section of the table. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 58 of the 197 present for 195, against no one. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u99	So we're going to go by the numbers in the table. So the amendment under B1 - the petitioner Mr Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u100	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 59. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 59 of 197 present for 62, anti 98. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u101	The next proposal is under number B2, the petitioner also Dominik Feri.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u102	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 60. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 60 of 197 present for 45, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u103	Amendment B3, submitted by Mrs Markéta Pekarová. This is 7 billion for the Ministry of Education at the expense of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u104	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 61. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 61 of 197 present for 48, against 108. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u105	The next proposal is Amendment B4 by Mrs Černochová. It concerns chapters of the ministries of foreign affairs and agriculture, where it comes from, and is given to the Ministry of Defence.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u106	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 62. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 62 of the person present 198 for 35, against 140. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u107	It is also an amendment under B5. It's from my colleague Gajdůšková, it's about social services.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u108	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 63. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 63 of 198 present for 15, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u109	The next proposal is B6 by Alena Gajdůškovášková. These are transfers under the Chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u110	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 64. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 64 of the person present 198 for 35, against 102. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u111	The next amendment is Mr Petr Gazdík's B7 amendment. This is a transfer of 28 million from the state debt to the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u112	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 65. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 65 of the person present 198 for 68, against 102. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u113	The next proposal is the proposal by Mr Kupka, who is unvoting, because we would have already crossed the law regarding the government reserve. So he's unvoting. And let's move on to the B9 proposal of my colleague Kupka. Again, it's against the government reserve. Since we are already at its legal level, it is unvoting. We are with Mr Jan Bauer's B10 proposal, who has applied to the Jan Zahradník amendment. It was said here, it's under the environmental chapter - movements.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u114	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 66. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 66 of 199 present for 53, against 104. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u115	Amendment B11, again from Mr Jan Bauer, refers again to the transfer of amounts under the environmental chapter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u116	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 67. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 67 of the present 199 for 30, against 114. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u117	The next proposal is the B12 of colleague Bauer. It is a transfer of funds within the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u118	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting 68. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 68 of the present 199 for 39, against 108. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u119	The next proposal is B13. It is again from Mr Bauer, again moving funds within the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u120	Opinion? [[- Disagree.]] I started voting number 69. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 69 of the present 199 for 39, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u121	We have already voted on the B14, so we are with Amendment B15 by Mr Krejza. It concerns an increase in funds for the National Authority for Cyber and Information Security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u122	Opinion? [[- Disagree.]] I've started voting number 70. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 70 of 199 for 51 Members present, against 106. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u123	The next proposal is the B16 of Jakub Janda's colleague. It's about transferring 7 million from the Office of the Government to the Ministry of Education and Youth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u124	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 71. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 71 of 199 present for 53, against 130. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u125	The next proposal is B17 by Mrs Zuzana Majerová Zahradníková. These are transfers under the Chapter of the Ministry of Education and Youth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u126	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 72. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 72 from the present 199 for 50, against 94. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u127	B18 from my colleague Martin Baxa. It's a transfer from the state debt chapter to the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u128	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 73. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 73 from the present 199 for 68, against 86. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u129	B19 again from colleague Martin Baxa, again moving from chapter state debt to Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u130	Opinion? [[- Disagree.]] I started voting number 74. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 74 of 199 present for 43 against 105. The motion was not accepted. Further proposal
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u131	Amendment B20 has already been voted, so we are with Mr Zbyněk Stanjura, Mr B21. He was here to justify the items he found in the state budget. So I'm taking a vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u132	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 75. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 75, from 199 in favour of 37, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u133	B22 - colleague Stanjura. Again from the Ministry of Labour to the chapter of state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u134	Okay. Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 76. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 76, from 199 to 37, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u135	B23 - once again colleague Stanjura takes from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, from Chapter 313 to reduce expenditure in the indicator of the benefits of assistance in material distress and wants to put it on state debt, Chapter 396, the service of state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u136	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 77. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 77, from 199 in favour of 37, against 99. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u137	B24 - Stanjura reduces the benefit chapter of state social support and shifts to the service of state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u138	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 78. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 78, from the present 199 for 35, against 103. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u139	Another amendment is B25 - Stanjura's colleague from Chapter 313 of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, other expenditures of the organisational units of the state, to Chapter 396 of the State Debt, indicator of the operation of the state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u140	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 79. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 79, from 198 in favour of 37, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u141	It is proposal B26 - colleague Stanjura from Chapter 314 Ministry of the Interior, other current expenses, for Chapter 396 indicator of the service of state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u142	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 80. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 80, from the present 199 for 59, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u143	The next proposal is B27 - colleague Stanjura from Chapter 314 Ministry of the Interior, employees' salaries and other payments for government debt work, government debt service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u144	Opinion? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 81. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 81, from 198 in favour of 37, against 105. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u145	Proposal B28 of colleague Stanjura. It is again from the chapter of the Ministry of the Interior, namely compulsory insurance paid by the employer to the chapter of the state debt, indicator of the service of the state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u146	Opinion? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 82. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 82, from 198 in favour of 37, against 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u147	The next proposal is the B29 of colleague Stanjura. It's from the Ministry of Environment, an indicator of climate and air protection, on state debt, on government debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u148	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 83. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 83, present 199 for 29, compared to 125. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u149	B30 - again a colleague of Stanjura, from the Ministry of Environment from the chapter of other environmental activities to state debt, the service of state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u150	Opinion? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 84. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 84, from the present 199 for 27, against 130. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u151	We are at B32 - colleague Stanjura, it is from the Ministry of Industry and Trade to reduce expenses, namely non-investment transfers to non-financial corporations, entities, legal persons, in favour of Chapter 396, indicator of government debt service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u152	Opinion? [[- Disagree.]] I started voting number 85. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 85, from 199 in favour of 36, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u153	I'm sorry. I left out B31 - colleague Stanjura, which is the Ministry of Regional Development, to reduce the expenditure of the chapter in the indicator of support for regional development and tourism, and other expenditure on regional development and tourism in favour of Chapter 396 of the State Debt, the operator of the state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u154	Opinion? [[- Disagree.]] I started voting number 86. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 86, from the present 199 for 28, against 119. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u155	The next proposal is B33 colleague Stanjura. It is from the Ministry of Transport, to reduce the expenditure of the chapter, namely the expenditure associated with space activities, in favour of Chapter 396 State debt, expenditure in the indicator of government debt service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u156	Opinion? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 87. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 87, present 199 for 23, against 131 Members. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u157	The next proposal is B34 to my colleague Stanjura, and it is Chapter 329 of the Ministry of Agriculture - to reduce the expenditure of the chapter in the subsidy indicator to the State Agricultural Intervention Fund in favour of Chapter 396 of the State Debt, the operator of the state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u158	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 88. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 88, present 199 for 30, against 113. The motion was not accepted. Next.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u159	Another amendment is the B35 of Mr Stanjura, namely the Ministry of Agriculture, to reduce the expenditure of the chapter in the indicator of support for the agrifood complex in favour of Chapter 396, an indicator of government debt service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u160	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've begun the vote on order number 89, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 89 of 199 present for 49, against 109. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u161	The next proposal is B36, Mr Stanjura, where it is Chapter 336 of the Ministry of Justice, to reduce the expenditure of the chapter, namely the salaries of employees and other payments for the work done, in favour of Chapter 396, Chapter State Debt, expenditure in the State Debt Service Indicator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u162	Opinion? [[Disagree.]] I've started a 90-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 90 of 199 present for 29 against 126. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u163	The next proposal B37 is unvoteable because Stanjura's colleague here is reducing the government's budget reserve, and we have already reduced it to the minimum we could by law, thanks to the amendments adopted, so it is unvoting. Then there is Amendment B38, again Mr Stanjura. I have a note here that it's unvoting because there's no specification of the item from which it's taken. It is from the General Treasury - to reduce the expenditure of the chapter in the export support indicator, property damage, state guarantees, investment incentives in favour of state debt. I have a note that it's unvoting. [[There is opposition from the ODS benches.]] You don't agree, then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u164	In that case, I will put it to a vote. That'll be the easiest. I have begun the vote on order number 91 and I ask who is in favour of this amendment. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 91 of 199 present for 52, against 108. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u165	The next proposal is the proposal by Mr B39, Mr Stanjura, Chapter 398 of the General Treasury Administration - to reduce the expenditure of the chapter in the indicator of other expenditure in favour of the state debt chapter, the government debt service.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u166	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the '92 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 92 of the person present 198 for 35, against 103. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u167	The next proposal is the B40 of colleague Stanjura. Once again, the General Treasury Administration - reduce spending in the chapter of the construction savings indicator in favour of the chapter State Debt, the operator of the state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u168	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote on order number 93 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 93 of 199 present for 53, against 107. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u169	Another proposal is the B41 of colleague Stanjura, which in Chapter 317 of the Ministry of Regional Development reduces the expenditure of the chapter in the indicator of support for regional development and tourism, other regional development and tourism expenditure, in favour of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, where it wants to increase the expenditure of the chapter in the indicator of development and restoration of the material technical base of state cultural facilities and the means to use the material technical base of state institutions in the framework of the subsidy title of regeneration of urban conservation and urban conservation zones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u170	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the '94 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 94 of 199 present for 62, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u171	The next proposal is under No. B42 by Mrs. Věra Kovářová. He wants to increase the expenditure of Chapter 317 of the Ministry of Regional Development. This change will be reflected in specific indicators of support for regional tourism development, with increased appropriations being used exclusively to strengthen the allocation of subsidy title No. 5 support local communications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u172	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote with serial number 95, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, the order number of 199 present for 83 against 84. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u173	Another proposal is the proposal under No B43/1, it is a variant of 1 by Mrs Kovářová, namely to increase the expenditure of Chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture in the indicator of the rescue and restoration of cultural monuments, the public service of museums, in which programmes for the preservation and restoration of cultural monuments and in grant programmes for the preservation and restoration of cultural monuments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u174	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote on order number 96 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 96 of the 199 present for 65, against 83. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u175	Then here we have B43/2 again from my colleague Věra Kovářová. It's variant 2. It's basically for the same purpose the same amount, except, of course, the money where they come from is from another piece.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u176	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started the vote on order number 97 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 97 of 199 present for 64, against 87. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u177	The next proposal is the amendment under B44/1, which is variant 1 of Mrs Kovářová. This amendment concerns Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. This is the amount of 400 million. Crowns. He's going into the state debt of the VPS. And that's about it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u178	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started the '98 series vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 98 of 199 present for 98, against 83. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u179	The next proposal is B44/2, it's the second option. The difference is in the amount, the amount is humiliated to 300 miles. CZK - again for the Ministry of Education.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u180	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started the 99-order vote, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 99 of the 199 present for 103, against 79. The motion was accepted. [[A round of applause from Members of the ODS and the Mayors.]] Let's continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u181	We're at design B44.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u182	Am I to understand that there's going to be a vote-check? [[There's restlessness in the room.]] I'll wait for the vote check. [[He's waiting.]] I will ask if then, if this amendment is approved, is there a voteable option 3 in order to take the time, rapporteur? [[No reaction.]] I'll wait. Club presidents, your positions. Shall we continue, then? [[He's waiting.]] I understand that this is something that is at the expense of several chapters... So, shall we continue? Chairman of the club KSČM Pavel Kováčik. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u183	I have a little bit, but it rarely happens to me, I'm sorry. [[Laughs in the hall.]] I voted in favour, I have a cross on drugs, I question the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u184	Okay. Because there was an immediate reaction.... [[Member Benda from the O.R. protests]] I understand. I haven't finished talking yet. I note that this is a Member's position, which is not possible to challenge the vote, because the vote that the President of the KSČM club spoke about does not lead to a change in the position for the proposal, so I take it as an opinion for the tapestry. And so we're going to continue by asking again if variant 3 is voteable at this point. I don't think it's voteable. Mr. Chairman of the TOP 09 Club. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u185	I do not want to argue too much, rapporteur, if I so respect your opinion, but I think it will be added together. Now we've approved 300, and we're going to vote 250, so it's voteable, it's not the same proposal, and we can make it up to 550.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u186	I understand you very well, which is why I asked if it was voteable. Of course, it's the easiest thing for me to do when we vote, which makes me the least of the procedural difficulties, and I can even get replaced in meeting management, but I'll finish the table. Okay. So I won't question other things. We will be voting on variant 3 with the view that I take the opinion of my colleague Kalousek that there are cumulative proposals. And the Minister's position on option 3? [[Disagree.]] Negative. It's the number 100 vote I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 100. Of the present 199 for 39, versus 87. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go. 45/1. Isn't that right, rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u187	Yes, it is an amendment under number 45/1. Again, colleague Kovářová, variant 1. It is an increase in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and Expenditure increased by CZK 15 billion 565 million 444 thousand 160 against the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and the VPS.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u188	Madam Secretary, position. [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 101 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 101. Of the present 199 for 46, versus 85. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u189	Then it is proposal B45/2, colleague Kovářová, the same title, the same amount, except for the Office of the President of the Republic, the Office of the Government, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u190	Madam Secretary, position. [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 102 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 102. Of the present 199 for 32, versus 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u191	The next proposal is the proposal B46, which is a colleague of Vácha, and it is a reduction in total expenditure of 15 million in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs by 40 million, the Ministry of the Interior by 100 million, the Ministry of the Environment by 80 million, the Ministry of Industry and Trade by 650 million, the Ministry of Transport by 30 million and the increase of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by CZK 915 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u192	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 103 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 103. Of the present 199 for 58, versus 91. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u193	Another proposal is the proposal by Mr Vácha, Mr B47, and it is an increase in chapters 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports by an amount of 400 million, the Grant Agency 200 million, the Ministry of Health 100 million, the Academy of Sciences 100 million, the Technology Agency 200 million and it is on account of the state debt account. It's a billion in total.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u194	Opinion? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 104 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 104. Of the present 199 for 82, against 93. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u195	The next proposal is the B48 by Mr Birke, and it is an increase in the chapter of the General Treasury Administration, an increase in the chapters of the expenditure indicators maintained in the information system of programming funding, a programme of action financed by the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, where a new item of appropriations for the correction of regional roads of the second and third classes in the amount of 3 billion is added, and it takes to the credit of VPS state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u196	Opinion, Madam Secretary. [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 105 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 105. Of the present 199 for 51, versus 96. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u197	The next amendment is B49 from my colleague Birke, and it is once again an increase when I say this in a simple way on road II. and III. Class. This time it's 1.5 billion. and it's to the detriment of the state's debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u198	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 106 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 106. Out of 199 present for 69, against 92. Nor has this proposal been adopted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u199	Another proposal was B50, which has already been voted out, so we are with Amendment B51 by colleague Aulická, where the amount in the chapter of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is increased, a specific indicator of the subsidy on activities carried out by municipalities with extended scope in the field of social law protection for children by 220 million. And it's a move within the chapter from the state social aid benefit indicator.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u200	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 107 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 107. Of the present 199 for 73, versus 74. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u201	Since we have Amendment B52/1, which was the first option, and B52/2, we have already agreed, I think that this proposal is no longer a voteable one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u202	Okay. Let's make another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u203	As I said before, 52/2 second variant was agreed. And we are with Amendment B53 by Mr Vojtěch Munzar. It concerns the transfer within the Ministry of Environment. Expenditure under the heading "non-investment contributions' set up by the contribution organisations shall be reduced by a contribution of EUR 10 million. and it moves to improve the state of nature and landscape. [[unintelligible]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u204	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 108, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 108. Of the present 199 for 53, versus 100. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u205	We are now on the proposal B54/1 variant 1, colleague Jaroslav Foldyna, namely the transfers in the chapter Cash administration, 398, where it reduces the indicator of additional resources for local authorities, the item financing the operation of security systems of underground transport buildings Prague, by 45 million. and it's moving it to a new item called The Craft of the 21st Century.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u206	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 109, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 109. Out of 198 present for 63, against 91 Members. [[Denied.]] Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u207	The next proposal is B54/2, so variant 2 of the same proposal, with the fact that it goes to Chapter 396 of the State Debt, where it wants to reduce the government debt service by 45 million. and once again increase the chapter by creating a new item of the General Treasury Administration The Craft of the 21st Century.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u208	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 110, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 110. Of the present 199 for 62, versus 98. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u209	The next proposal is a proposal by my colleague, Mr. Foldyna, from B55. This is a reduction in the government debt management indicator and an increase in the chapter of the General Treasury by 20 million. CZK, creating a new item called Project Born 1918.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u210	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 111 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 111. Out of 199 present for 19, versus 115. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u211	The next amendment is under the number B56 of Mr Mihola, and it is an increase of 3 850 000 000 Chapter 333 Ministry of Education in the indicator of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations. And the funds are set, part 850 miles. for private and ecclesiastical schools to raise salaries by 15 per cent for pedagogical staff, an amount of 3 billion. to further increase the salaries and salaries of teaching staff of schools of all founders by 5% and this is in favour of the state debt chapter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u212	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 112 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 112. Of the present 199 for 69, versus 98. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u213	The next proposal is under number B57, again from my colleague Mihola, namely the increase of funds in chapter 334 of the Ministry of Culture, increase the expenditure block of the contribution organization established by the Ministry of Culture, the National Monument Institute, by 50 million. Crowns. And it's against the government's debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u214	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 113, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 113. Of the present 199 for 24, against 103. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u215	The next proposal is the B58 by Mr Mihola. This is an increase in Chapter 361 of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic, increasing expenditure on research, development and innovation by a total of 100 million, including programmes co-financed by foreign programmes. Crowns. And it's on account of the state debt, an indicator of the service of the state debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u216	I'm asking the secretary about her proposal. [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 114, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 114. Out of 199 present for 74, against 89. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u217	The next proposal is B59 by Mrs Válková, who is, of course, unvoting, because we have exhausted the government reserve that we could have used. So we are going to the next proposal, and this is B60, which is Mrs Helena Langšádlová, namely the expenditure of Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, which will increase by 131 miles. in the indicator of regional education expenditure and directly managed organisations. This appropriation is intended to cover: an amount of 101 million. for the increase of standards for private schools, an amount of 30 million. to increase the standards for schools and school establishments established by registered churches or religious societies. And it's on account of the state's debt, the service of the state's debt.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u218	Opinion? [[- Disagree.]] I've started voting number 115, I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 115. Out of 199 present for 87, against 93. The motion was not accepted. We will continue, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u219	Another amendment is the amendment of my colleague Kaňkovský. Variant No 1. It's about money for social services. We've already voted for a total of 3.3 billion social services, so I'm just pointing it out. Unfortunately, from my point of view, this is a different item, so it is voteable. I'm just pointing out that we've already increased our service money.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u220	Madam Secretary's position? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 116. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 116, out of 199 present for 7, against 80. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u221	There is Amendment B61/2, which is variant No. 2 to the same, but the amount is 3 billion. Once again, it is voteable, but again I warn you that we have already moved the amount of 3.3 billion there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u222	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 117. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 117, from the present 199 for 2, against 76. The motion was not accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u223	We are with Amendment B62/1, variant No. 1. Presenter Stanislav Juránek. This is the expenditure of Chapter 304 of the Office of the Government - to increase the drug policy programme in the cross-cutting indicator, it is against state debt, the amount of 70 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u224	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 118. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 118, of 199 present for 81, against 78. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u225	It's B62/2. It's basically the same thing, except it's against the government reserve, and that's why it's unvoted at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u226	Okay. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u227	Another proposal is the B63 colleague Jiří Kobza, which reduces the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, foreign development cooperation, by 200 million. CZK and increases the General Treasury Administration, indicator reserve for extraordinary expenses.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u228	Okay. Opinion? [[- Disagree.]] I started voting number 119. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 119, out of 199 present for 23, against 148. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u229	The next proposal is B64 by Mr Radovan Vích. This is Chapter 307 of the Ministry of Defence, reducing the expenditure block of defence security by the forces of the Army of the Czech Republic in the expenditure circuit to ensure involvement in operations and emergency forces and, on the contrary, increase in the same chapter 307 the expenditure block of defence security by the forces of the Czech Army in the expenditure circuit to ensure the support of the command of the Army of the Czech Republic by 300 million.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u230	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 120. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 120, out of 199 present for 33, against 148. The motion was not accepted. Before we proceed, please, Member, to the vote. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u231	Have a nice evening. I didn't vote 118 on drugs, I voted in favour. I'm not questioning the vote, just for the tape screen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u232	Okay, thank you, Mr. President. And we'll continue with B65.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u233	Yes, B65. Subscriber Lubomír Volný. This is Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, increasing budget amounts under the social prevention and crime prevention programme by 10 million. CZK and also under the drug policy programme to increase expenditure by CZK 3 million. Crowns. It is a move in the chapter against the heading of the programme of integration of members of the Roma community.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u234	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 121. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 121, present 199 for 47, compared to 122. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u235	Another amendment is under number B66 from Mr Ferjenčík. It's Chapter 301. Office of the President of the Republic, cut expenses by 1 022 thousand. and the reduction will be reflected in the total expenditure indicator and in the specific indicator of the expenditure of the Office of the President of the Republic. By this amount increase Chapter 304 of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic, the indicator of expenditure in total and in the specific indicator of expenditure on security of tasks of the Office of the Government of the Czech Republic and in the specific indicator "in this: expenditure of its own Office of the Government" and in the cross-cutting indicator of the drug policy programme to combat alcoholism.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u236	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I started voting number 122. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 122, of 199 present for 58, against 95. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u237	Furthermore, we should vote on Amendment B67 again from the petitioner Mikuláš Ferjenčík, namely the chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, to increase the expenditure of the chapter by 400 million. CZK in the indicator of total expenditure and in the specific indicator of science and university. It is within the scope of the chapter, so it is in favour of the indicator of expenditure in total. In the specific indicator of expenditure of the Police of the Czech Republic reduction of the amount 171 005 324 and in the specific indicator of expenditure for the performance of the tasks of the Ministry of the Interior and other organizational units of the State reduction of the amount 228 994 676 CZK. [[to say 228 994 776]] Total amount of 400 million. Crowns.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u238	Madam Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 123 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 123, present 199 for 63, against 82. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u239	Since the last proposal I have here has already been voted on by B68, I believe that all the amendments in Annex 2b are being voted on at the moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u240	Okay. All the amendments were exhausted. I ask the various appellants if they agree that we have voted for all the amendments. That's right. So we can continue, so that we have accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u241	I think we should vote on the draft budget first... [[Disagree from the diaper.]] No?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u242	So now we would vote on the state budget, and if it is adopted, we will vote on accompanying resolutions, because that can only be adopted for a valid resolution. But before the vote, the chairman of the KDU-ČSL club Jan Bartošek is reporting. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u243	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I'd like to request a 15-minute recess for a club meeting before the final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u244	Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u245	I'd add five more to that, make it a total of twenty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u246	Meet me at 8:00. Thank you. I'm declaring a break until 8:00.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u247	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue to discuss the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018. We are just before the final vote, but there are applications with priority rights. First of all, Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies Okamura. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor. I will ask the Members of Parliament to keep their voice down so that we can pursue the completion of the State Budget Act. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, let me give the opinion of the Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, on the draft state budget for 2018. We have great reservations about this budget. On the one hand, we do not agree with such a large deficit in the state budget at a time of economic growth, nor do we agree with the huge money that will flow next year to non-profit organizations with a political agenda, nor do we agree that social benefits and social support will continue to be given to parasitic and inadaptable groups of residents instead of being received by decent and decent citizens. On the other hand, from the outset, and clearly we in the SPD advocate that we want to raise pensions, we want pensioners to have more money from January onwards, we want social services workers to get more money, we deserve it, we want health workers to have more money, we want health workers to have more money from the start, we also want these people to deserve it, we want to add education workers, we want people who work in education, whether they are pedagogical or non-teaching workers, we want to have more money from January, we want to add SPD workers too, we want to add firefighters, policemen too, so we have decided, because we are the party, we are the non-politicist movement, we want to be constructive, we want people to have more money to feel safe here in the Czech Republic, and we want the Republic to go forward, so we don't fight here to work for citizens from day one. That is why our SPD movement, despite all its reservations, has decided to support the budget. Thank you for your attention. We want people to live better here and have more money. They're entitled to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u249	Thank you. With priority rights, Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Dear members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. We have seen many proposals in the state budget, many steps that anyone could question. But if we want to say that there will finally be a rapid increase in pensions, if we have managed to vote for an increase in social services and if we have not managed to vote for the reimbursement of this budget of old debts, which other governments have made, I think we have a good move to be able to take a step in this state budget that will benefit the economy of the Czech Republic. I think that not only the salaries of teachers, not only the other mandatory expenses that we have approved during the last parliamentary term and which this state budget must contain, indicate that the Czech Republic is on its way from cuts to further development. I therefore believe that this state budget deserves support. The KSČM Club will support this state budget.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u251	Furthermore, with priority rights, President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u252	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Very briefly. Our position was clear from the first reading, because at first reading the essential economic parameters were approved, with which nothing else could be done. Apparently, they'll be approved in the third reading now. We consider these expenses to be unforgivably high, much higher than he once suggested in May, as he reminded us here, then Minister of Finance, today's Prime Minister Babiš. Well, I'll be looking forward to the novel where he'll cut them down by at least 25 billion to get it back on his proposal he trusted in May. I think we'll remember the debate, sometimes we'll ask where the 25 billion are down to be in the May draft. We accept two good news - that the House was able to agree on a significant salary increase for social services workers. That was our common priority. There will certainly be good news in a way that the Czech Republic has a budget. The country needs a budget, and it is a report on some political and economic stability. These good news, however, outweighs the report on how bad the budget is, how unforgivablely high spending, with an inexcusably high balance at a time of growth and with an extremely long-living structure, with one of the lowest investment spending in favour of the current eating. These are the reasons for which we will vote against the draft state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u253	Yes. President Bartošek with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u254	Thank you for the floor. The KDU-ČSL club has advertised in advance that it is absolutely crucial for us to increase funds in the field of social services and their wages. After the club meeting, we decided to support the 2018 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u255	Thank you. Yes, with priority rights, Mr. Chairman Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u256	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. As we announced 14 days ago in the state budget debate at first and second reading, we consider this budget to be good, quality, balanced. It supports more money for health care, social services. We are glad that today, thanks to the pressure of ČSSD, we have managed to arrange for 3.3 billion to go to social services. That's an extra penny. Thank you for your support and we are voting in favour of this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u257	Thank you. President Farsky with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u258	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget has made cosmetic changes. Thanks to you for supporting kindergartens, 300 million good, will certainly not be lost in the Republic and for them will be good enough for our children. It is also good that social services were supported in this amount where the government promised, but it wanted municipalities and regions to pay, so at least this will be a little leveled up. Too bad it's not in other fields, too. However, this budget will not receive our votes for the Mayors and Independent Club, because, indeed, today, when there is a 50-billion-dollar deficit proposed, such record growth, such a flow of European money, it is irresponsible to manage the future with the minimum investments that are here. That is why our votes in favour of this budget will not be. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u259	Thank you. I don't see anyone else with priority rights, so we can proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make the motion for a resolution, or if the rapporteur wants to do it, she can. No, I'll do it: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's draft law on the state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 and with the Government's draft state budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 according to House Press 2, as amended by approved amendments, according to Annexes 1 and 2 to this resolution." Initiating vote. Anyone who agrees with the motion for a resolution, press the button and raise his hand. Who's against it? Voting number 124, 199 Members signed in for 140, versus 31. The motion was accepted. [[Let's hear it.]] I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. We must now deal with the proposals for accompanying resolutions. I ask the rapporteur to put forward proposals for accompanying resolutions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to introduce you to the proposals for accompanying resolutions, some of which we have already had in the resolution of the Committee on Budgets and one of which was read by my colleague Michalík. So if you don't mind, I'm gonna introduce you to them first, and then I'm gonna propose a voting procedure. Draft accompanying resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the Government Bill on the State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018 and on the draft State Budget of the Czech Republic for 2018. A. By resolution of the Committee on Budgets. Chamber of Deputies: I. Supports the increase in the expenditure of the Chapter of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports intended primarily for predictable and transparent financing of regional education as well as public universities in order to ensure the stability of the education system and to improve the quality of education; II. recommends to the Government that: (a) from 1. 9. 2018 has increased teacher salaries by 15 per cent and other staff in education by at least 10 per cent in order to achieve an average teacher's salary of 130 per cent of the average salary in the State by 2020 at the latest; (b) since 2020, it has consolidated national investment programmes aimed at developing regional education infrastructure budgeted in Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports and 398 The General Treasury Administration under Chapter 333 of the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports with adequate staffing and took into account the above recommendations in expenditure frameworks; (c) take into account the above objectives and recommendations in the expenditure frameworks and in the budgetary strategy of the public institutions sector, which will be approved by 30 April 2018. Then, under letter B from the debate at second reading, we have Mr Jakub Michálek's proposal, namely: The Chamber of Deputies recommends that the Government ensure transparency of expenditure by the end of June 2018 through the so-called 'State'. the state clicking budget, where it will be continuously published in an open format, both the State budget for 2018 and its implementation up to the level of specific expenditure, following the exclusion of data where the law does not allow publication. These are all the proposals for accompanying resolutions that we have at our disposal, and I would like to propose that we vote under letter A individually, I and II, and then under letter B.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-19-ps2017-004-03-006-004.u261	Yes, thank you for this proposal. Is there any objection to him? [[No one's checking in.]] If not, we will stick to the rapporteur's suggestion. So first, we will vote on the proposal under A I. I'm opening the vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting order number 125, registered 198 Members, for 192, against none. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on the accompanying resolution under A II. Initiating vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 126, registered 198 Members, for 190, against none. The motion was accepted. We will now vote on point B. So I'm taking the vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 127, Members registered 198, for 96, against 25. The motion was not accepted. In that case, we will have to vote once again on the motion for an accompanying resolution, as the Chamber of Deputies agreed with it, that is, we have agreed with letter A I and II. So I'm taking the vote. Whoever agrees with the proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Voting number 128, registered in 198 Members, in favour of 174, against none. The motion was accepted. I'm done discussing this point, and we can move on to the next one we have on the agenda, that's
