ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-23-ps2013-055-03-000-000.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Minister - I see only one member of the government here. I begin on the third day of the 55th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome you all here. I'm asking you all to sign up with ID cards and possibly tell me who's asking to issue a replacement card. Mr. Vojtěch Adam has a replacement card number 15. Ivan Adamec asked the following Members to excuse their absence from the meeting for no reason, Jan Bartošek for the morning meeting for work reasons, Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová for reasons of foreign travel, Jiří Běhounek for family reasons for the whole day, Jan Birke from 13:30 for working Kubíček, Milan Brázdil for the whole day for health Martin, Číp Čík for personal reasons for the whole day, Ivana Dobešová is on a foreign trip, Karel Fiedler from 9 to 11.30 for working Komárek, Stanislav Grospič from 12 hours for working Leo, Milada Halíková for Kučera Michal day for personal Matušovská, Leoš Heger for Martin reasons also for the whole day, for the morning meeting for work reasons Pavel Holík, for the whole day Miloslav Janulík for the whole day for Jaroslav Klaška, until 14.30 Zuzana Kailová for personal reasons, until 13 hours for working reasons Kasal Kasarn, within 11 hours for Helena reasons, for the whole day, for working Luzar of work reasons of work, for the whole of work, for Lobkowicz of the whole day, for Igor of the whole of the whole day, for reasons of the whole of the whole of the reasons of the Langšádlová of the reasons of the reasons of the time of the time of the time of the time of the time of the time of the period of the time of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of health, of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period of the period For health Vlastimil for the whole day, for family reasons for the whole day Ladislav Okleštěk, from 10 o'clock Zdeněk Ondráček for work reasons, for work reasons Miroslav Opálka for the whole day, as well as Jana Pastuchová also for the Pavel day for work Vácha, František Petrtýl without giving reason for the Jiří day, Ivan Pilný until 14.30 for work reasons, Lukáš Pleticha for the whole day for work Ženíšek, Martin Plíšek between 14.30 and 18 hours for work Skalický of work, Ivo Pojezný for the whole day for personal Šincl, Karel Pražák also for the Jan Volný, Roman Procházka for Helena Válková for the whole day, Adam Rykala for personal reasons for the whole day, Marta Semelová for Roman Váňa for the whole day, Bronislav Schwarez for the whole day, also for working Zemánek of the whole day. From the members of the government - please pay attention because it's the day of the interview, so you know who's sorry. By 14.30 Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka for work reasons, i.e. for oral interpelation will be present. For family reasons for the whole day Andrej Babiš, within 13 hours for working reasons Daniel Herman, or the interpelation will be. Milan Chovanec from 9 to 14 hours for work reasons, i.e. for oral interpelation will also be present. From 14.30 for work reasons Marian Jurečka, therefore, will not be for interpelation. By 14.30 for work reasons Miloslav Ludvík, he will be at interpelations. Michaela Marksová in the morning meeting for work reasons, she'll be at interpelations. Martin Stropnický until 14.30 for work reasons, i.e. he will also be at interpelation, but Kateřina Valachová apologizes for work reasons for the whole day and will not be at interpelation. That's an apology for today. I remind you that according to the agreement of Tuesday's Gremium, we will begin with paragraph 293, which is the government's response to written interpelations. And since there is only one written interview, but for the absent Minister Chovanec, we will continue immediately after the interruption of paragraph 293 and it is possible, according to the Rules of Procedure, to record any changes in the approved agenda, since today's agenda after written interpelations, replies to written interpelations, is included in the first reading block - parliamentary proposals. So that's the process. I remind you, there are also fixed points. At 11 o'clock, points 210 and 270, which are international treaties. So this afternoon we'd be focusing on paragraph 294. I would like to remind you that it is possible to submit applications for oral interviews within 11 hours and there will be a draw at 11.30 with the participation of the verifiers of the minutes of the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. I would also like to add an apology - within 10 hours for reasons of work, Mrs Nina Nováková apologizes. We will therefore now begin with answers to written interpelations with which the Members have not agreed.
