ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u1	78. Government bill on experts, expert offices and expert institutes / House print 1025/ - first reading The Minister remained at the rapporteur's table, Mrs Helena Válková also took the position at the rapporteur's table, because she is the rapporteur for first reading. And I will ask the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán to make a proposal on behalf of the government. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the proposal tabled, or a package of proposals, because it includes the two points that will follow the point that has been taken, which is the parliamentary proposal for an amendment on experts and interpreters, so these three laws represent, I think, the long-awaited and long-missed legislative change and the replacement of the 1967 amendments in the field of experts and interpreters. The fundamental changes that should be made by the proposed adaptation are that it should be quite clear what the rules for entry into the knowledge sector are. At the same time, there should also be a legal claim, which means that today's situation should end, when it is largely at the administrative discretion of the President of the Regional Court or the Minister of Justice whether or not someone will be granted an expert authorisation. At the same time, today's state of affairs should be levelled when if someone wants to conduct a commercial expert activity through a legal person, it's sort of mixed up, that's how it started at the beginning of 90 years, actually with scientific institutions, when I put it that way. So today there is a confusing division of so-called expert institutes into the first and second sections. The public doesn't understand it at all and feels that the pursuit of expert activities in a legal person is something more, something better, although it is simply the same work of the same experts. So for this reason, this situation is to be settled and created by the law of the so-called expert office, like we have a law firm, so as to make it clear to the public. Most importantly, a regular review of the quality of expert opinions is to be introduced in the sense that at least once every five years, at least three of his opinions and the so-called Advisory Council, a body of generally recognised experts in the field, will check that these assessments correspond to the rules of the trade, lege artis, there are no manipulations or gross professional errors. Should such a situation occur, the appropriate penalty will be granted, or even revoked by an expert authorisation. [[12.50 hours]] These are, in a nutshell, probably the most important changes that the proposal would bring. I believe that these are the changes that we urgently need. I must assure you that today's state of expertise is indeed the painful heel of our justice, when many proceedings extend to us endlessly by presenting completely contradictory opinions from different sides. A judge who doesn't have the expertise, that's why he appoints an expert, then he's actually dependent on him to roll a dice somewhere in the end because he has four opinions and five opinions in them and he has no idea how to make a decision. In my opinion, it is necessary to return the round stamp with the state emblem of its necessary weight. And that's what this law does. Of course there are still some points to discuss. Once again, I think there'll be plenty of room in the constitutional committee or in the other committees to sort things out. I therefore ask that this law be released further into the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u3	I thank the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán, and before I give the floor to the rapporteur, I apologise to Mr Petr Kořenko from 13:00 until the end of the meeting day, which was delivered to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. I therefore now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Helena Válková to present the news report.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, it was said here that was essential. I would just like to add this in relation to the first of the present package of laws concerning significant improvements and changes in the performance of expert activities, interpretation activities, even in the second law, I will add the Minister's information, it has also been possible to define and refine and divide interpreters and translators. So it is clear from such an example that this law is intended to lay an ambition to lay the better foundation for these professional activities, which are not representative in some cases of both civil and criminal law in the courts, or for a fair, impartial and objective assessment of cases that the courts are dealing with. What I want to point out, because I'm sure other colleagues will open it in the discussion, the genesis of the law, that the way to this proposal was not easy at all. In fact, the Justice Department received various recommendations from us, which respected and established and continued the work that I started as a minister, that it consulted on a regular basis with expert teams created by experts from different areas, because in this law, the devil's kick is particularly important in that there are many experts and specializations, and not all of them can be well formulated so that uniform conditions for the performance of expert activities could apply to them and they could live with it. Take it now with exaggeration, we've had a forensics riot, we've had property valuers here. So I dare say that if I were in the position of the Minister of Justice, I'd be dealing with exactly the same problems as my successor, and I'd be happy tonight that there's finally a draft new law here that has compromised this situation and, of course, not entirely on the 1st, let's say 2nd. But you will judge that in the final grade when you vote for it, which I hope you will, or you won't, which I believe will not happen. What we have not yet managed to completely eliminate, and what is of course essential from the point of view of regional court Presidents, is the administrative burden which logically follows from what has been said here that the expert, when he meets the conditions laid down by law, will be entitled to be registered. But these conditions are not set benevolently, so I think that not all new candidates will be successful. This is linked to the concern that you may have already heard in the media that the courts will be overwhelmed by requests and now they will have to control, where the mechanism is also compromisely established that the quality will always be controlled by each expert so that in five years, three random assessments will be selected, which the President of the Regional Court will assess, and will draw some conclusions. There were several variations. This option seems viable to me for both parties, or for all parties - for experts, for the President of the Regional Court, and also for the Minister or the Ministry of Justice, but also for participants who, in the event that the expert activity is not of good quality, will no longer turn to such an expert. And, of course, because he will no longer be an expert in that extreme case, and that will not happen to what we are now witnessing, and why the law is so important to the ordinary citizen, because we certainly do not want to have those cases where expert opinions are against each other, and it is sometimes in those so-called capital cases, see Kramný, Nečesaný, nurse from Rumburk, or now I don't know exactly if from Rumburk, but in any case those expert reports went against each other and we had the opportunity to watch the results live. So this is the only area, or it's not the only area, but it's obviously one of those major areas where the last word isn't quite said yet. In the draft law, therefore, it remains that the division of supervisory and control activities between the Ministry of Justice and the President of the Regional Courts, with regional courts echoing and saying, we do not want this more extensive agenda in combination with the infringement proceedings that we should be conducting, because you are making us more administrative than judicial, and let the Ministry do it in the framework of uniform supervision and control. I personally am, in these cases and as rapporteur after hearing all possible representatives of both experts and officials from the Ministry of Justice, the Minister, my experience, of course, for more uniform supervision, control. It would be optimal if the Justice Department could exercise control and supervision itself. But since I don't take the illusion that the regional courts will give up their assigned desks in favor of the Ministry of Justice, in order to create a sufficiently numerous and well-equipped apparatus that can handle this agenda, because if I say A, I have to say B, that means yes, I don't want to do it, but there are tables that I have to hand over to the Justice Department, I think if we are reasonably looking for a compromise, then we can find it and divide it between the Justice Department and the Regional Courts can stay. This is more likely to be a detailed debate on the Constitutional Legal Committee afterwards. I don't think the bill is going to stay unchanged the way it's being proposed right now. The new expert office institute is certainly another controversial subject. There will be large expert institutes of large companies, which will of course not be interested in falling into the so-called expert offices, they will want to be in the prestigious and publicized expert institutes, and it will depend on the extent to which their arguments will be left to or will not be influenced. Logic should do it. Expert - natural person, expert office - legal person. Knowledge institutions, those with the greatest virtue of guarantee, impartiality, justice. But the fact is, in some areas, the faculty, the clinics, the universities will have no end for these fields of activity of their expert. So that's another area that needs to be discussed. [[13.00 hours]] However, neither of these two areas is such that we do not raise our voice and let this whole package into second reading. And that concludes my introduction because it can be summed up in one sentence. It is laying the foundations of a better performance of expert activity in the Czech Republic. It is a certain control of experts on the one hand, on the other hand, fairer conditions, the creation of better conditions, including the remuneration of experts, a more transparent approach, the right to be included in the list of experts when I meet the conditions, or we are withdrawing from the law that arose in the second half of the 1960s, to a more modern, transparent and fairer procedure in matters of experts, interpreters, translators. And, of course, there is the law then, because, in order for it to work in practice, amendments must be made to the relevant, in particular, procedural regulations. That's what we're gonna talk about, I hope, tonight on. I therefore recommend, as rapporteur, to raise your hand clearly for him, to let him go into second reading, but to be aware that some of the debates under second reading will take place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u5	I thank the rapporteur for her speech and open a general debate, for which I first have Mr Plíšek's application. I note Mr Pilný's factual remark, but that is only in the debate, in response to the debate that has begun, so I will give you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u6	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, I can begin by saying that from the priority of the government, which according to her previous and then several times updated programming statement she had submitted a new legislation on the law on experts, the first term was December 2014. So we have March 2017 and we are discussing a new law on experts at first reading. It is true that the current regulation is exactly 50 years old and that there is a need to make some changes in this area. Therefore, last January, I submitted my own amendment to the law, which is included as another follow-up point in today's negotiations. The amendment contains the introduction of an entrance examination for experts, the possibility to test the knowledge of the expert during the expert's work, or to suspend his activity in the event of a breach of the law. And the obligation of lifelong learning. In the beginning, I will be positive, because the Justice Department has taken over some of the elements and the things that are in my novel, even in this own proposal. However, of course, I would very much like both the new law and my amendment to be released for second reading, because today it is difficult to estimate whether we will actually be able to approve a completely new law at the time that remains for the elections. This will then be seen in the debate and in terms of the number of amendments. Now I would like to limit myself to some questions for the Minister, because there is indeed a new category of experts here, which, of course, is based on a lower level than the expert institutes, but at the same time higher demands are placed on the expert agencies than on the expert institutes. So I see a certain asymmetry and inequality, and I think we're going to be dealing with that on the constitutionally-legal committee. Because this may lead to an uneven position of expert offices to push out and reduce expert offices, especially in economic fields with all possible negative consequences, such as a drop in quality, extension of deadlines, processing of opinions, etc. I also have a reservation that expert institutions will not be able to meet a wide range of possible needs of courts, insolvency administrators and economic sectors in a professional and in particular capacity. This is indeed also about the staffing and what this law can do in terms of the lack of experts in some fields. This is indeed also a question for us to address the accompanying issues, not only what is in the bill itself. And I also want to ask whether, in fact, the expert institutes, unlike the expert offices, will be able to carry out the tasks they have, say, an international dimension in valuation, for example. in practice large banking groups. I also see the risk of this proposal on the personnel level, which means that there may be a flood of courts that will have many new responsibilities in relation to the expert's activities. There will be a special professional part of the examination before the Advisory Councils at the Regional Courts. The Court shall supervise the experts, the expert offices, the constitutions, then supervise the Ministry of Justice, and review at least once every five years three selected opinions of each expert. This, in addition to the possible flooding of the HR court with the question of whether they can examine the findings in substance without knowledge of the supporting documents sufficiently. Because if anyone doesn't have to review these assessments, then this power doesn't have any fundamental effect. And, as I mentioned earlier, regulation does not solve a burning problem, and that is a lack of forensic experts in certain fields. It is a good thing that the proposal opens up the opportunity to increase the expert's remuneration, because the current remuneration of the expert according to the already quite old decree is between 150 and 300 crowns per hour, which really has a negative effect on who and in what quality the expert opinions are processed and carried out. Of course, it is a new law, it needs to be discussed in detail on the constitutional law committee. I am here to advise that I am not in favour of shortening deadlines and that we should be very careful with it. And as I have already mentioned, I would very much like my amendment to move forward to the next reading, so that we may still try to make the changes there, although I see it from the perspective of the chances that we will be able to discuss it, about 50-50. We'll see how it goes, because I'm not a fan of us approving completely revolutionary new laws under the time pressure of elections. But we won't really see that until the committee talks. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u7	I thank Mr Martin Plíšek and we continue the debate with Mr Zdeněk Ondráček's speech. Mr. Marek Benda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, colleagues, there is not much time left until the end of the day, so I will try to be as brief as possible, although I was originally prepared to discuss this matter in the order of tens of minutes. A colleague of the previous speakers has already mentioned the issue of expert offices, and he has also mentioned a certain reservation which came to us yesterday from experts who would probably be in expert offices in the field of economics. We received this on schedule by all members of the Constitutional Legal Committee, including the chairmen of the different political parties' clubs. So I'm not going to talk more about expert offices. It will certainly be a topic that we will be discussing in the Constitutional Legal Committee. I don't know if this is the right solution, but I'm gonna try to move on to the specific things that are. If I look at part two of the bill, which is the performance of expert activities, then in Section 5, 6 and 7, which are the conditions for the performance of expert activities either an expert, an expert office or an expert institute, is one of the conditions of integrity. In general, of course, I fully agree with this, only if I have corrupted this law, this proposal with a law that is 50 years old, so whether we should not require integrity with those experts only for intentional crimes or for crimes of a careless nature committed or committed by such a person, and now it does not matter whether it is a person of a physical or legal nature in connection with the performance of the expert's activities. If it's written like that, it's an ordinary car accident. And we're all drivers, and we know this can happen to us at any time. So I would intercede for the addition in Sections 5, 6 and 7 of that integrity, that it is done, or that we consider crimes of a deliberate nature, possibly. negligence crimes. That's in there somewhere. So be it, let's move on. [[13.10 hours]] If we talked about the exercise of supervision, I also see a bit of a problem here that the chairman of the Regional Court supervises the performance of expert activities and, in the case of the supervision of expert activities, expert offices and expert institute, then the Ministry. The second paragraph states that the supervisory authority is entitled to assess the factual aspect of the expert opinion. Well, I'm a little worried about that, because the factual side of an expert opinion... I don't know if the chairman of the county court, if that's true. The Ministry will be able to evaluate this matter. And I'm a little concerned that some checks should not slide to formality, that they will be carried out not out of the factual correctness of the opinions, because it is stated here: when assessing the accuracy of the supervisory authority checks - and then, in particular, whether the processor has acted with professional care, including whether the assessment is consistent with generally accepted procedures, standards, etc. Well, it's gonna be more like, if the expert opinion is written in the format it was, if the sum is underlined twice, and I don't know what else. At the same time, it is stated that to carry out the control - and we have already discussed it here - at least every five years for three random assessments. I assume that where there is an expert's activity, where there are not so many opinions, and there are such specialized activities that, for example, an expert processes one opinion in two years, that is to say, paragraph 1. 4 that, in the absence of particular considerations, the particular consideration is that the frequency of expert opinions for the issue is not such. In the absence of specific considerations, this would be the reason for the termination of the authorisation to carry out an expert's activity, as referred to in paragraph 1. 4. And I'll ask you again. In Article 36 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: The law enforcement authority shall immediately inform the supervisory authority of the issuing of a resolution on the initiation of criminal proceedings or the taking of an expert into custody. It does not make it clear to me whether, in the event of criminal proceedings being brought against someone, such a person will find out whether it is a person who is on the list of experts, whether it will be another one of the obligations arising from an institution active in criminal proceedings, or whether the legislature, the petitioner, has in mind, on this point, that the criminal proceedings authority will give this information or this notification in the event of criminal activity in connection with an expert's activities. Because if it were to be about any crime, it might even be a hundred and ninety-six, I mean, not paying alimony. And I'm not quite sure that an authority active in criminal proceedings in such quotes will detect that the person against whom the criminal proceedings are conducted is by chance not a person registered on the list of experts and interpreters, for example. for some field, I won't be specific. I have some reservations about the law, but since we've been pushing the Justice Department a lot, if he wants to discuss this law, virtually. I am a little sorry that this is only at the beginning of March, and as my previous speaker, Mr Martin Plíšek, I am concerned that we will still be able to discuss this within the legislative process, because colleagues in the Senate will certainly be interested in discussing this law. As mentioned by the translator, it is a law, or a set of laws, which replaces a standard of 50 years old. So it's actually part of a revolution in experts and interpreters. I would like us to discuss it with all our responsibilities and not make something very hot with a needle, because neither experts nor interpreters deserve it. And I already know about some of the shortcomings that are, for example, just in paragraph 79, which we will be discussing, which concerns interpreters. I am ready to discuss this matter, and I am looking forward to such a discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u9	I thank Mr Zdeněk Ondráček. Mr Marek Benda will now speak in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u10	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Ladies and Gentlemen, if anyone wants to have a cup of coffee, I promise I will be a little longer. I'll see how much longer. I consider the submission of this bill to the Ministry at this moment to be a really incredible con on this House. The proposal was promised by 2014. It was repeatedly discussed on the grounds of the Constitutional Committee. We were repeatedly promised by the Ministry - in three months it will be done. He's been telling us about two years - he'll be done in three months. And then four months before the election, he throws him in here with all the problems that have been there since the beginning, not one of them is really solved, and it's expected that the House will do something - and now I don't know exactly what he's going to do. In my opinion, the House is supposed to park this place, say this we are unable to do, and the Minister of Justice will walk around and say, well, I put it there, I'm going to solve all the problems of those scary experts, if it were my way, then everything was settled long ago. But you know that, the evil Chamber of Deputies, the horrible body the big boss himself would like to narrow it down to about a hundred people, or maybe completely disbanded, because the question of experts, experts and expert institutes is not addressed... This really seems to me, if I am going into a so-called conceptual solution - and I say this so-called conceptual solution - such questions as the issues of forensic experts and court interpreters, who are really debating who's been watching these discussions for a long time, at least ten years, at least ten years, very difficult, it doesn't have a trivial solution, so it just seems to me in the last six months of the election period that it's really just like trying to take responsibility out of it and it's up to the Chamber of Deputies to say it. This is incredibly annoying to me. I think if we were gonna do this, we should have had it here a year and a half ago. We had a debate here, which was so-called held at the Ministry and so-called held in the committees of the Legislative Council of the Government and other groups, and we should have tried to find a reasonable way out of this. We are in a situation where the entire groups of the professional public say: this is not the way it should be, let us not continue this way. They are like the Presidents of the Courts - and they have repeatedly told us this at the meetings of the subcommittee on justice and judicial self-government. It said repeatedly: this is a problem. And I think that the problem that was still relatively problematic today, because something has been set up by the Ministry, something has been set up by the Presidents of the Courts, so the problem will only be deepened by this proposal today. I will read the pieces from the original draft opinion of the Government Legislative Council on the draft law on experts, expert offices and expert institutes for sure. From the original design. I agree - and hopefully I believe that materials processed by the government are materials that the opposition should also have at its disposal. I think it's completely legitimate. And that you then went around the Government Legislative Council, that there was a situation where it was better resolved by the President of the Government Legislative Council, because you knew that the Government Legislative Council would probably not agree to this in this form, so that is another thing. [[13.20 hours]] But to get to those magistrates. The Working Commission of the Government's Legislative Board on Administrative Law has a fundamental reservation on the constitutionality of the proposed legislation. According to the Commission, the procedures for registration in the list of experts, the procedure for deletion and removal from the list of experts, as well as the suspension of the expert authorisation, are the performance of the state administration for which administrative authorities are called, not the courts, respectively. The Presidents of the Courts. Although according to the Law on Courts and Judges, the Presidents of the Regional Courts perform state administration, only the state administration of the Regional Court and the state administration of the District Courts belonging to their territory to the extent provided for by the Law. The state administration does not perform on another section. It should also be borne in mind that the current procedurally amended appointment of experts is changed in the application procedure under Part Two of the Administrative Code, which, following the conditions required to be met for inclusion in the list of experts, can be relatively organisational, administrative and procedurally challenging. According to the Commission, the appointment of experts should be entrusted to the Ministry of Justice, with administrative proceedings for applications having all the consequences, including an administrative action as usual. In this context, the Commission further states that, in the case of the Ministry of Justice, the assessment of the conditions for carrying out an expert activity, the management of the related administrative procedure, the control, etc., is a service within the meaning of the Service Act. However, this is not entirely possible in the case of the Presidents of the Courts, who, even in the case of the administration of the courts, are still judges, and the requirements for their expertise and the like are imposed by the law on courts and judges and in other related laws, not in the Civil Service Act. The unjustified differences in the proposed legislation from this point of view cannot stand either. It also considers the Working Committee on Criminal Law to be conceptually incorrect for regional courts to bear the main administrative burden of the proposed regulation and to act as administrative bodies in the expert agenda. According to this commission, all administrative activities in the expert agenda should be concentrated on the Ministry of Justice. In relation to the question of constitutionality of the legislation, some members of the Working Commission on Private Law have strongly opposed the proposed regulation of supervision of the performance of expert activities, which considers that the proposed model is in merely unconstitutional, since the regional court cannot, in view of the principle of independence of judicial power from the power of executive and legislative and their mutual separation, control and balancing, exercise state oversight of the expert's activities, since it is not and can never be a state administration. They consider it inadmissible as well as the fact that the Regional Court would, at first instance, rule on these issues as an administrative body in accordance with the procedure laid down in the Administrative Rules, and that an appeal against this decision would be considered by the Ministry of Justice, which, on the one hand, is factually inappropriate, on the other hand, an unconstitutional combination of the functions of executive and judicial powers. They also consider the special regulation of the local jurisdiction of the court to be abnormal and non-compliant pursuant to § 43 para. 1 of the proposed law. So this is about the overall concept that I really consider to be extremely controversial. The fact that in the section... [[Searches in the background]] ... I'm sorry that it is stipulated that the Ministry is an administrative body in charge of the Presidents of the Courts, it just seems like an incredible problem that I don't know how to solve. And it was a problem from the start. We knew from the beginning that we were going to find a solution, but it's exactly the thing that went well. It's been said -- it kind of turns out that way. But can we even imagine that the Ministry is reviewing the decision of the President in administrative proceedings? I believe that maybe this minister can imagine it, conceptually and constitutionally I can't imagine it, and I'm afraid we have to run into it in every situation. This is the first comment on the overall order of the structure. The second part is, and once again, Mr Ondráček spoke about it in part, that yesterday the opinion came from a large four expert institutes, all the big audit firms, which I quote again with permission. I'm sorry that I'm using so many quotes today, but when I try to point out that it's by far not just my problem with this bill, and with it being presented this late, I want to point out that the problems come from outside and from the professional public, and that they are unsolvable in my opinion in the three months we have. That is why I will conclude by proposing that we return the proposal to the Government to recast and only address Mr Plíšek's proposal, which I think can solve today's situation in a partial way, but at the same time will not lead to a number of problems in the future. The opinion of four audit firms, the largest, I think we should take them seriously, where they write to us: "Dear ladies and gentlemen, we dare to address you in connection with the proposed law on experts. We understand that the Government of the Czech Republic adopted resolution number 52 at its meeting on 25 January 2017 by which it approved the draft law on experts, experts' offices and expert institutes with modifications according to the comments contained in the opinion of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government and commissioned the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic to submit this proposal for further discussion to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. We are aware of the need to replace the existing Act No. 36/1967 Coll., as amended, a legal standard corresponding to today. Among the main objectives of the proposed standard, the Ministry of Justice declared the need for stabilisation and improvement of expert activities. We fully agree with the need to improve expert activity and we strongly support the updating of this law. At the same time, we welcome the tightening of supervision in order to improve the quality of assessments. On the other hand, according to our information, for example, German jurisdictions deal with this issue more freely. In this context, we would like to draw your attention to some of the problematic aspects of the proposed standard. Reviews in the field of economics. There are many fields of expertise in knowledge, from security to transport, economy, lettering and other fields to health care. Nearly the most experts, as well as the greatest need for reviews and experts, are in the field of economics. While in most other fields, only hundreds or thousands of opinions are processed annually, hundreds of thousands of them are produced each year in the field of economics. These relate, for example, to the valuation of enterprises or real estate and are drawn up for the purposes of divorce proceedings, inheritance, structural changes in companies or damages, i.e. areas that have the potential to fundamentally influence the life of an individual or the operation of a company. Imbalanced status of expert offices. Experts are currently divided into individual experts and expert institutes. In the proposed law, the scientific institutes are newly confined only to the state sphere and educational or research institutions, including private institutions. The law then expressly states that the expert institute is intended primarily for the processing of expert opinions in particularly difficult cases requiring special assessment. The newly created category of expert office, which is based on the assumption of the association of experts - natural persons, is based on a lower level than the expert institutes and is also subject to higher demands than the expert institutes." All these comparisons are in a table which, of course, I will not read the whole of here, but it shows quite clearly that the office and the institute are in a very uneven position. [[13.30 hours]] " An unequal position may lead, inter alia, to the elimination and decline of entities falling within the category of expert offices with all negative impacts in the field of the economy. [[reduction of quality, extension of processing deadlines, etc.]] The threat of a decline in the quality of assessments in the field of the economy. Commercial expert institutes are currently a fundamental guarantor of quality and stability in the field of the economy. Even if they are commercial entities, large commercial expert institutes are developing significant scientific research activities in the field of valuation. In addition, in addition to the staff experts requested, they have such extensive professional and human capacity and material backgrounds that individuals cannot objectively achieve. It goes for example. on the number of experts available worldwide to these expert institutes, their specific sectoral and technical knowledge, the possibility of discussing difficult methodological problems, extensive access to information including charges. In addition, employees are regularly trained to maintain knowledge of current approaches, which makes them able to produce best-quality assessments. This systematic approach to training for self-employed experts is lacking. Even educational institutions, especially in the field of economics, which remain expert institutes, are unlikely to be able to meet a wide range of possible needs of courts, insolvency administrators and economic sectors in a professional and in particular capacity. Internationalization of the economy requires professional coverage relating not only to the Czech Republic but also to a transnational scale. This goes without a doubt beyond those categories of experts with which the bill is newly envisaged. It can therefore be expected that, especially in the field of the economy, some of the international expertise would be impossible for experts. It's hard to imagine, for example. the valuation of a large banking group, which may be needed for various purposes, will be carried out by one person or research institution, which does not have a large team and experience with real transactions both in the Czech Republic and abroad. Links and sharing of experience with tax or accounting experts is also necessary for carrying out expert activities. By pushing out commercial expert institutes, the overall quality and possibilities of expert activities would be significantly reduced. Thus, both natural and legal persons will be exposed to the risk of untrained assessments. It would be sad if for example. the person who has been damaged and is seeking redress in a court of law has failed only because the opinion will be drawn up by an incompetent expert. As already mentioned above, the economic reports relate to hundreds of thousands of people per year. We believe that, given the political neutrality of this issue, there are no obstacles in this area to finding good and in the practice of well-functioning solutions and that discrimination between a part of the entities cannot lead to the achievement of the declared objectives. We therefore believe that some sections of the bill deserve adjustment and we want to assure you that we are ready to participate in the processing of the amendments. Therefore, if there is any need to discuss or explain any aspect of this letter, we are flexible for consultation and cooperation." And so on, now the representatives of the great four expert institutes are signed, virtually. audit firms. I think it's very important. In the end, we all refer to it, get an auditor's opinion, and if we are in a situation today where big audit firms say we are against this concept of bill, it is very unfortunate if this is to be dealt with between the first and second readings of the constitutional law committee. And now I would also look at some of the reservations I have on the bill as such, perhaps only the most important ones I would take. But if we look at the experts' offices and expert institutes, the experts' offices - we are in a situation where they have stricter conditions, they have fewer options for what they can really exercise, but we still argue that most of the voting rights in this office must have experts. We probably don't exactly say what experts, whether they're certified or uncertified, but probably certified. It is good that it is said that most members of the statutory body are experts, I might still understand that, but that they have most voting rights, it seems at least strange to me and I do not fully understand why it could not be offices that have other ownership. Or let's say it's just the congratulations of the experts, but we admit that it's congratulations and that most of the voting rights must be held by the experts. At the same time, however, at the expert institute, we suddenly admit that the expert institute is a university or a part of it. But we have public and private universities, private universities can be owned by anyone, they may not be an expert at all, but we'll pretend that because it has the status of a university, so it has a different regime from an expert office, respectively. regime - it can be owned by anyone, but only because it is a college and it has the status of a university, so it can become an expert institute. I find this whole division of constitutions and offices very controversial. And especially controversial to me is that for those so-called. The institutions, which is assumed to be some of the existing ones and perhaps many other universities, are not actually expected to have to produce experts for them and to bear the responsibility of experts. In the reality of life, it is in many cases that there are some assistant professors doing it, there are some spies and others who would normally not reach an expert stamp in any way, but because they are under the head of a university or an expert institute, so suddenly it is the stamp of the university and an expert institute and there is no need for a person really competent and really experienced and fulfilling the conditions that they were before. So that is the first comment on the difference between expert offices and expert institutes. The second thing I'm going to point out while I'm going through. The amount of decrees the D.O.D. put back in there. Looks to me like we've really gone a little crazy here in this standard formation. A decree is needed to implement each paragraph. There are perhaps eight things in which there is a need for a decree, when some I consider to be completely unnecessary and some I consider to be controversial whether they are constitutional or whether it is even possible for the Ministry to set them. We, on the one hand, will make a list of all fields in the law, respectively. in the annex to the Act and in the Decree, but at the same time we will say that the Ministry provides in Section 8 (7) for which it is necessary to provide evidence of obtaining another certificate of professional competence or to undertake a specialization study in accordance with paragraph 1. Article 4 (1) (a) (c), including which certificate or specialised study is involved. In fact, the Ministry will decide where a university is sufficient, where a university is not sufficient and, where appropriate, what type of university is sufficient and sufficient. I see it as a big problem. Good that the Ministry will split them up, I may understand, but where a university is sufficient and insufficient by decree of the Ministry, especially in a situation where we know how much trouble it is sometimes possible to produce with the ministries' decrees, it seems strange to me. As well as Section 10, the expert's entrance exam. If we say that there is a general part of the entrance exam provided and organized by the Justice Academy, and then suddenly we say that the way in which the exam is carried out, its content, form and course is determined by a decree - what do we need another decree for? What do we need to have a regulated decree regime for every single thing in human life? I consider it completely unnecessary. In addition, I have great doubt whether when we say that there is a general part of the exam and a special part of the exam, if it is even really defined in the law, where and before whom the special part of the exam is held. [[13.40 hours]] Next - § 12, retests, differences, their form, content and course are set by the Ministry by decree. We'll have decrees for everything. Everything will be necessary. Maybe I'll just take other things in a nutshell, because they seem irrelevant to me, but rather structurally highly dubious. Data contained in the list of experts. We need to have a public list of experts in which there must be contacts in which there must be a telephone number on a given expert, the public list must contain a telephone number stating that when any of these data changes, I have to report it within ten days, if I happen to be an expert, under a very small fine. So if I happen to switch phones and not report it in good time to the D.O.D., there's gonna be a situation where I'm gonna get a fat ticket. But at the same time, all this information that I have to report, if I happen to be an expert, and which is under a fat fine, the Ministry can still verify from the information in the information systems of the public administration, as well as the President of the Regional Court. So either these data are given in the information systems of the public administration, then it makes sense to be there, and then whether they copy them from it or not, then it doesn't make sense for the Ministry to control them. And now I would go to one problem, which I fear is a relatively fundamental and conceptual character, to which - that I will end up before the other? [[There are objections raised from the news desk without a microphone.]] I won't. Be sure. I say that I really consider the presentation of this bill right now to be an attempt to shift responsibility to Parliament. I don't want that responsibility. I'm gonna propose a return, and if there's a situation today that we won't be able to discuss it in two hours, I'm really not mad, and I don't mind. Just to be clear why I'm getting off. I think you're trying to frame us, and I think we're not supposed to have that responsibility, he's not supposed to be in the Chamber of Deputies. There is one fundamental problem that has arisen and raised by lawyers in particular, and that is the obligation of confidentiality, which has so far been breakable only to an authority that has received the relevant opinion, virtually. the information requested by the manager. There is a new breach of confidentiality in Section 20. The confidentiality obligations shall not be invoked against the body supervising the expert's activities. So I consider this to be an extremely controversial and complex provision, in which I am not really sure if we would hold this, but it basically - [[The Minister of Justice Pelikán from the newsstand without a microphone has an objection.]] Section 20, confidentiality obligation. That's what lawyers repeatedly point out. It's about putting it in, it's about the fact that every once in a while someone's a supervisor checks the opinions, whether it's the President of the Court or the Ministry itself, no matter how we design the report, who might impose sanctions or who doesn't give sanctions. But at the moment I say that there is a state authority that has the opportunity to request a specific opinion and against this state authority as if in the exercise of supervision there is a breach of the obligation of confidentiality, so I get any lawyers who request a counter-assessment in the matter into an extremely complicated situation, because - [[Minister Pelican has objections without a microphone.]] I don't have an old version, I have a version he's given us... 1025, § 20 - non-disclosure obligations may not be invoked against an authority supervising an expert's activity. Paragraph three.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u11	I will ask the House for peace so that we do not have to shout or argue here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u12	I'm sorry if someone printed me the wrong version, then there's a problem in the system, but not in me. I had it tonight.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u13	Don't even tell me there's another press and other content.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u14	I'm surprised. I don't see badly. That's what it says. If we happen to find out that we have different options that the Ministry is working with and that I'm working with, then we're in a really complicated situation, then I'm sorry, but it's - Section 20, confidentiality, paragraph 3. The confidentiality obligations shall not be invoked against the public authority before which the procedure in which the expert opinion is to be applied. The confidentiality obligations shall not be invoked against the body supervising the expert's activities. Is it there or isn't it there?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u15	Please don't argue with the Minister outside the debate. Ambassador, I'm going to interrupt you for a moment and ask the House for some peace. Please don't argue with me here between the lecturer and the news desk. The other colleagues and colleagues are asking for peace of mind, because if it wasn't for my colleague Benda's emphasis, I didn't know that he was proposing a re-evaluation. In this respect, I would therefore like us to understand that whoever asks for a word, I will give it to him, but at the same time, he must respect that there is only one talking except the President's authority. In this respect, I again expect discipline in the discussion and repeat that the only authentic text is always the House press. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u16	Yes, thank you. Mr Vice-President, we have already understood with the Minister that he is objecting to parts other than what I have spoken against at this time, where I am only supportive, and there I acknowledge that he is right. Nevertheless, this breach of the obligation of confidentiality with regard to the supervisory authority remains here and is with a great question whether this breach with regard to the supervisory authority cannot constitute an exceptional disadvantage to the breach of legal secrecy in its factuality, which means an extraordinary disadvantage, especially if the supervisory authority is also the President of the Regional Court, an exceptional disadvantage to one of the procedural parties of a possible dispute. Let's just continue with the little things. I'm just gonna give you a heads-up. Another decree. The minimum limit for insurance benefits from expert insurance for individual fields and sectors is set by the Ministry by decree. She's not exactly funny, because it can, of course, make the performance of the expert activity significantly more expensive. And unlike the other decrees that are tabled, in this case, the draft order to my surprise is not tabled. So, how many of the poor experts in the different fields do we have in front of us? What seemed to me completely special is in Section 27 of the Ministry's authorisation - the method of carrying out the expert act and the details of the expert act, the use of the expert seal and the expert clause is laid down by the Ministry's decree. Is that what I think is the kind of thing that even executes an expert act that we want to judge and regulate with a decree? Either we have some actions that we have regulated in individual regulations, whether in civil trials or in the Code of Criminal Procedure, but we cannot go through a decree above this regime and I consider it completely unnecessary. The same procedure for the processing of expert opinion and its requirements is laid down by the Ministry by decree. Okay. I would still understand the issues, but with the minor clause that Section 28 already says that the expert opinion must contain these elements. [[13.50 hours]] And he says, "A, B to J, some of them are possible to argue, maybe they are not controversial, but then in point 9, we say, "The procedure for the processing of the expert opinion and its requirements is laid down by the Ministry by decree." Well? The circumstances of the procedure, or the merits of the expert's opinion, when the elements of the expert's opinion are regulated directly in the law? So either they're regulated in the law, then the law applies, or they're not regulated in the law, and then there's no point in us setting something under the law. Evidence of expert reports. It was the thing that the Minister and I argued a little bit about, whether or not he was okay, and whether all the offences were mentioned there and they could be referred to at the time of the inspection. But I'm expecting one more problem that I'm drawing attention to. In paragraph 5 - some data are public, some are private. The Ministry and the Regional Courts have access to non-public data. I wouldn't have understood that, would I? They are supervisory authorities. However, following a reasoned request, the administrator shall also grant access, to the extent necessary, to another public authority. To what other public authority does the administrator grant the record of opinions access to the necessary extent? What other organs do we mean? We mean all of them? What's the legitimate request? Who has the right to ask? I'm very careful about this for life to continue on the way that, in some cases, state power has some data, it's said who can process the data and who can deal with it, and then all of a sudden we give this general authority, any public authority can be allowed access to these non-public databases. I don't know who's imagining it, but I think it's very problematic again. [[Noise and restlessness in the hall.]] Well, I guess I'm getting to the end, maybe with just one, two more little points. K § 41. [[Votes from the diaper ask Members to terminate the speech.]] Well, I've still got time, I'll save about two or three minutes for another hearing. I'm ready to be here by 4:00, if that's what you want to call me. As regards Section 41, common provisions on offences. We've been discussing a law of misdemeanor here recently. We recently set general time limits for offenses. The Ministry of Justice, which should perhaps be one of the guarantors of the fact that we are trying to unify that state, as the internal logic of the rule of law, to put it in one sense, so that we know that for an offence the limitation period is annual, or two years, or three years, subjective and five years, objective, or something similar, or say it should be otherwise. It doesn't really matter. But why does the Department of Justice come up with the fact that it will have different deadlines than the general legislation? Why the limitation period shall be five years from the date on which the offence was committed, if liability has been suspended, shall expire no later than seven years after the offence has been committed. I really don't understand why we have to go the way in this kind of thing that we're looking for special provisions for misdemeanor proceedings and for its limitation. The last point relates to that section 42, which I initially could not find at the beginning, as I gradually list it, where I have already clearly said that I see as a big problem if the head of the administrative body of the Regional Court is the Ministry. The idea that, in administrative proceedings, the President of the Regional Court decides something - if he were at least a minister in person, I might still understand that this is some kind of attempt to get out of the ordinary administrative procedure in a special way, and I will say, if the President of the Regional Court did so, then the Minister or the Secretary of State can somehow revise this decision. But the idea that the head of the administrative body of the President of the Regional Court is the ministry where the sub-alternative official examines the decision of the President of the Court? This is what we are really making the President of the Court an administrative body that is in some part as independent as we have learned in recent days that he must no longer be really meeting any lawyer or similar, but in some part above him sits any official here at the Prague Ministry and can review his decision or cancel it. I see it as a big problem. Thank you for the attention you have so far paid to my speech, and at this moment I am saying goodbye to this bill, and then I will, of course, propose to all the others, be returned to the plaintiff for recasting, because I believe that it is really not profitable for us to deal with experts and experts' offices and expert institutes in the last four months of the House in all the problems I have tried to name. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u17	I thank Mr Marek Benda. I state Mr Pilný's apology from 13 o'clock to the end of the day and a point of fact, I will also release Mr Zdeněk Ondráček and then interrupt item 78. But now you have the floor, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u18	Thank you. I'm glad my turn came up before 14 o'clock. My colleague Benda was able to sum up this House press in those few minutes. I would just like to admit that I didn't tell the whole truth if the Minister would listen to me so he would know. [[The MP looks at the rapporteur's desk and sees that the minister doesn't see him.]] They're both absent mentally.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u19	Ladies and gentlemen, please, let us keep our attention. Okay, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u20	I was talking to you, Minister, so just so you know, I looked at the proposal again. You're right, the integrity is better worked out in Section 9, so I'm sorry I missed it. Thank you and I look forward to hearing further.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u21	Thank you. Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I can really let the rapporteur go, too. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u22	I have a procedural proposal to negotiate today even after 14 o'clock, at least to discuss this current point, or the House Press 1025, the proposal for a new law on experts. [[Noise and restlessness in the hall.]] I know that many of you would like to leave the O.R. because she already has her next program, but I appeal to you that at least this one point is an expression that we know that we need to improve our expertise in the Czech Republic should be negotiated. I think we're at the end of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-004-078.u23	I will, of course, have your procedural proposal voted on. Just pointing out that the 14th hour was the subject of a college meeting, already a political grémia on Tuesday, and it was confirmed on Wednesday. Don't forget that the management of the meeting in its own way is given only within 14 hours, because it was a prerequisite agreed with the presidents of the MPs. But on that vote, I'm going to make that motion in the vote number 222. I'm gonna check you all out first, ask you for a new registration. Please sign up with your identification cards, and once the number of entries is settled, I will begin voting on Mrs Helena Válková's procedural proposal to discuss this point even after 14 o'clock. I've started voting number 222 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 222, from the present 84 for 34, against 24. The motion was not accepted. In that case, I won't continue. A colleague of Víťa Kaňkovský, who will be the first to perform after the reopening of paragraph 78. I am interrupting item 78 and also interrupting the House of Deputies meeting until 14. 3:00 p.m. He's on the committee next week, so in order to discuss other matters, we need the committees to meet. And 14. 3. we will start with the block of the Minister of Finance, points 5, 42, 43, 44 and then other points related to this. That means item 34, 45 and others. Then before point 52, there would be a block of the Minister of Justice. I'm sure we can agree when we'll continue the agenda at paragraph 78. Have a good afternoon, and I'm interrupting the meeting until March 14th.
