ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u1	6. The draft law amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (the Act on Medicinal Products), as amended, and other related laws (the House Press 706/ - returned by the Senate The Senate has returned the bill with amendments. We received his resolution as House Press 706/7. Now I'm looking around to see if we have a Senate representative among us. First, we will vote on whether the House approves the participation of the Senate representative in this meeting, Senator Peter Koliba. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Voting order number 278. Registered is 133, for 108, against none. This proposal was adopted. I'll ask the senator to take his place. I now ask that the Minister of Health, Mr Miloslav Ludvík, speak for the plaintiffs for the resolution of the Senate and the amendments tabled. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for the floor. Have a good day. Let me briefly comment on the proposal for an amendment to the Act on Medicines, which, with amendments, the Senate has advanced back to this House. As I have said several times, and it has been discussed many times, the core of the government's proposal pursues two main objectives. The first is the adaptation of the EU regulation on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use, the second is the incorporation of a mechanism for limiting so-called drug reports in order to ensure the availability of medicinal products for patients in the Czech Republic. This is therefore an important and desirable adjustment that will benefit patients throughout the Czech Republic. I would now like to respond to the amendments addressed to this House of the Senate, given the responses they have raised. Above all, I would like to express my support for the Senate version of the draft amendment to the Act on Medicines and allow me to say a few words on the most important points. The first was the question of providing data from the police and the Ministry of the Interior from the basic registers and agenda information systems to the State Institute for Drug Control. The SÚKL's approach to these data is not yet regulated in the Drug Act. Since the SÚKL carries out state administration, in addition, in a sensitive area such as the world of medicinal products, this standard seems quite reasonable and desirable, and I dare say necessary to allow it, within the framework of the exercise of this competence, to access data from the basic population register. The State Land Office, the State Agricultural and Intervention Fund, the Central Agricultural Inspection and Testing Institute, the Czech Environmental Inspection Institute, all these authorities are already carrying out state administration today and have access to these data from the basic register of agend systems in the same regime as the Senate is now proposed for the benefit of the SÚKL. So what I must very much stress at this point at this point is that there is no way, and I am stressing this, in any case, it is not an unprecedented breakthrough in the issue of access by the state authorities to this information and it is not even a departure from today's established practice. The SÚKL will need access to these data in order to ensure the functioning of the central repository or the registry for restricted medicinal products, in a large number of cases it will be the verification of the data specified in the request of the entities for authorisation to carry out their activities, as well as the verification of the data when carrying out checks and supervision on controlled and supervised persons. This whole thing is supposed to make SÚKL's activities more effective. [[There's still a lot of noise and restlessness in the hall!]] Now I would like to comment on the main issue, which is the biggest subject of controversy today, and that is the question of amending the provisions of Paragraph 77 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (h) the Act on Medicines, which regulates the obligation of distributors to re-establish, without undue delay, the supply of medicinal products for human use. This applies even after the amendment proposed by the Senate -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u3	Minister, I'm sorry. Once again, please let colleagues who speak go to the lobby if they don't care what the minister says. I suggest you listen. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u4	So, even after the change proposed by the Senate, it is further ordered distributors to supply medicines to ensure the needs of patients, but not within a fixed period of two days, but without undue delay. The "without undue delay" is a standard legal wording that indicates that when a distributor has a cure, he must immediately...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u5	Calm down, please. Strongly! Now you're sleeping on the right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u6	Maybe we could hand out some anxiolytics. When the product is available to the distributor, it must act without delay to deliver such a preparation to the pharmacy. If he does not have it, he shall be obliged to deliver it immediately after he has it. It is a measure which gives the obligation to distributors and makes better provision for the availability of medicinal products in pharmacies. I would point out once again that the House version is said within two working days, and I would add a very classic example from the last time we were informed by the manufacturer of Tamiflu that there is an increased risk of reporting due to a flu epidemic in Europe. So the Ministry of Health stopped Tamiflu's reexports, but we were warned by the manufacturer that if there was a shortage of Tamiflu on the Czech market, they would not be able to deliver it for six months. So even if we set a two-day obligation, it just won't happen. It doesn't know much, but the drugs aren't made in a regular way, you put some raw material in the beginning and at the end of the line you drop out acylpirin and it goes like that nonstop. It's not like that. Medications are produced in a so-called reactor way, which means you have some kind of container called a reactor, and at that point acylpirin is produced, production is finished, and penicillin, for example, begins to be produced. Therefore, each drug has its own batch. That's one of those reasons. That is why it is very problematic and common in pharmacy, and in health care we know that medicines often fall out simply because they are not on the market. So the obligation that is now laid down in the Houses of the Press, within two working days, is essentially unenforceable. Whereas the wording, which has been replaced and said without undue delay, is sometimes stricter because if the distributor has it in storage, today distributors normally import pharmacies even five times a day, and is obliged to deliver it now, whereas when it is not in stock, it will deliver it when it is in storage in the Czech Republic or sometimes in a European distribution warehouse. This is one of the reasons why we think that the Senate proposal that was made is better than the original, albeit well-meaning wording. Furthermore, the Senate also responded to the statement by the UOHS, which drew attention to a certain discrepancy between the wording of the draft law passed by the Senate and the legal regulation of competition. These letters of 18 October 2016 and 7 December 2016 are available to us. According to the assessment of the ÚOHS, the text of the approved House proposal was in sharp conflict with the principles of competition protection. In particular, the UOHS claimed that the proposed text would impose a contractual obligation on pharmaceutical producers and thus strengthen the position of distributors together with the low controlability of the supply of pharmaceuticals in relation to the market share of distributors. According to the conclusion of the UOHS, the proposal would not, in itself, guarantee the fulfilment of the main objective of this provision, namely to ensure the availability of medicines for patients. [[15.00 hours]] Furthermore, it appears to be very problematic in relation to the competitive environment, but at all to the commercial environment, also to the House of the proposed provision, which exempts distributors and marketing authorisation holders from the obligation to deliver the medicinal product, for which their other party has at least one cash debt. At this point, I would like to try to clarify this problem a little bit, because it turns out to be crude. This is where it came from, I don't know why, but it's so foggy, there's a rumor that the proposal, as approved by the House, is helping pharmacies. I'd just like you to pay attention to what the House version sounds like. The House version says: The distributor shall ensure the delivery of the medicinal product within two working days of receipt of the requirement on the basis of the operator's requirement for the dispensing of medicinal products. The distributor has the right to call on the marketing authorisation holder to ensure the availability of medicines in the Czech Republic. Here it is important to say that the distributor has the right to call on the holder of the decision, so that the distributor has the right to call on the producer to market share of the distributor and the manufacturer has the obligation to supply it. The proposal doesn't talk about pharmacies. Here it is constantly said that the pharmacy is entitled to medication thanks to this provision, because of course it was solved that a lot of pharmacies have problems and cannot receive medication from the distributor. But the House version doesn't talk about it. The House version speaks of the fact that the distributor has the right to receive medication from the manufacturer. Not a pharmacy from a distributor. I know you've all been overwhelmed by a lot of e-mails where pharmacists complain, and often rightly, on the subject that they don't get medication, but that's the problem of the UOHS that should deal with it. But the House's version of the bill, it talks about the drug being given to the distributor, not the pharmacy. I would like to stress once again that this is the problem that is showing up. And the moment, for example. one of the distributors will end up on the market, so, let's say that its market share was 20 percent, at which point the Czech Republic is less than 20 percent of the volume of the drugs, typically oncological, simply because today the bill is petrifying the market shares, so that part of the volume of the drugs will not be distributed. I understand that there is therefore quite a considerable interest in helping pharmacies, and I support it, but frankly, as the text has been approved, this will not help pharmacies. Or perhaps otherwise - it will help those pharmacies that have distribution licenses, which are about 200 or 400 out of a total of 2,700, and frankly, some of them, as SÚKL recently discovered by control, are involved in these reports, but it is a minority. So I would like to reiterate - whereas the Senate text consulted by the Office for the Protection of Competition is: In order to ensure, without undue delay, the supply of medicines, the distributor of which is the operators authorised to supply medicinal products - or pharmacies - to patients in the Czech Republic. To reiterate, the Senate's correction in this case is, in my opinion, really more favorable, or kinder, to pharmacies than the one originally adopted by the House, even though it was certainly conducted by the purest and most noble intentions. I would also like to say, according to the opinions that we have at our disposal today, that this would not only be very restrictive, but actually not applicable for the very reasons that I mentioned. And from what I also mentioned, it probably wouldn't really have the effect on patients. The original text has a great effect on distributors, that's true. It should be said that the main objective that the Ministry is really pursuing today is to achieve the availability of medicines, as they say, medicines, but let's say medicines for patients in the Czech Republic. Above all, I think it is important and beneficial to mention the fact that thanks to the Senate initiative, we have managed to avoid future disputes that would necessarily have to arise for reasons that would have been preceded by the UOHS, because I can already imagine the disputes that would arise from this because of the inapplicability of this provision. I would like to say that the remaining proposals contained in the wording of the Law, which the Senate passed, the other corrections, are rather of a legislative technical nature, and they were basically only minor technical amendments. At this point, I would really like to ask you to approve the bill, as it is passed to the House, as it was passed on to the Senate. And I want to stress on one side the important thing. The law must be passed. When it is not accepted, the Czech Republic will have huge problems in the clinical evaluation of drugs, which will have a pretty drastic impact on both the scientific part and the economic functioning in the Czech Republic. It's very important. Therefore, I would very, very well be on you, dear Members, dear Members, to approve this. Since it is clear to me that the first vote will be on a Senate version which should pass by a simple majority unless it passes by a simple majority, 101 votes must be found, but this standard must be adopted because an increase in patient protection will be achieved by means of a new regulation ensuring the availability of medicines even in situations where their lack of them will be threatened. This law really primarily addresses the issue of reexport, the issue of clinical trials. He really doesn't deal with the availability of drugs in pharmacies for patients. I would like to emphasise this again and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u7	Well, thank you, Minister, for making it. I am still registering a number of Members speaking out loud. If it's really necessary, I'll ask you to go to the foyer so we can have a dignified course of this point. Now the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Rostislav Vyzula, wants to speak gradually. So, Mr. Rapporteur. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Senator. Let me, as rapporteur for this press, when we dealt with this issue in the health committee, I think that more than a year and a half, very thoroughly, and when simply the original idea that was set up here, which we have been trying to address all the time, was to limit reporting, even inadequate reporting, so that medicines are available to our patients in the event of various epidemics, as mentioned here for example. now flu, but there are other situations, and on the other hand, to allow our patients to have access to the clinical trials that are being presented at global level today, so that our patients also have access to them, because I think they deserve it, and it is often fundamentally beneficial. However, at the end of almost second reading, the amendment came into this amendment, which was a parliamentary proposal and which actually dealt with the issue a little, not completely different, but nevertheless very complex. It's a relationship between pharmacies, distributors and pharmaceutical manufacturers. This issue is so demanding and over 25 years or 26 years so called. the market economy in our state has become so complicated that it is not possible, in my opinion, to work in health care for 35, 36 years and yet something about it I have been able to perceive, so it is not possible to solve this issue simply because of one amendment. And then it happened - of course, because it's a matter so demanding for all these groups. You finally received dozens of e-mails, representatives of all these groups stopped by to convince you of their truth. Then where is the truth? You know that when two do the same thing, it's not the same thing, and when several people look at the same issue, they see it differently. This topic was finally repeated and filmed, when one story was shown and the audience always had different opinions. So, actually, some absolute truth... The absolute truth doesn't exist anymore, in anything. But even the relative truth is very serious and it is not so easy to approach it. And I would appeal here to consider the extent to which we can allow in this amendment. [[15.10 hours]] I have repeatedly heard from the senators that the Senate is a guarantee of democracy. I love it. Anyway, insurance, insurance, okay. What I'm imagining under the fuse is the most electrical fuse that has a certain limit. And the limit is either low, and only a certain amount of current goes through the fuse, or the limit is high, and the current level can go higher. And so it happens that sometimes the level of this policy is low in the Senate, and sometimes the level is high. So it happens that a good thought will pass, or a good thought will not pass at all. This is also the subject of this proposal. It is important to realise the original ideas that led to this proposal, and in fact one single proposal then created such a huge response between various groups. It's logical, of course. We see that there are certainly strange methods in the distribution and sale of drugs over the years. Large chains have agreed with distributors and manufacturers and often have access to medicines that are lucrative for them. But small and medium pharmacies also want to keep these lucrative drugs to themselves. And so there was a struggle. Maybe you remember, I was on the Czech TV show Mrs. Jílková You have the word where the individual parties spread and I was there, seemed more or less extra. The parliamentary proposal, originally Mr Běhounek, to which I have also applied, please, and I will still have to justify it, allows that, in essence, even if it is distributors, as the Minister has said here, but it allows any pharmacy to ask the distributor, on request, for a lucrative medicine, and requires delivery of this medicine within two days. As has been said, in some cases this is absolutely impossible. But what's still there is that only pharmacies can deliver this drug that doesn't have a 30-day debt, not one 30-day debt from a given distributor. This is a problem that is a certain disorder in our health care, but it cannot be removed from one day to the next. I'm sure I'm not defending him, but it's just given by a payment calendar, let the flow of money through hospitals that also have their pharmacies, so it's not that easy to solve. This did not like the UOHS, i.e. the Office for Competition Protection, and so came a different version, namely in the Senate. This version allows each pharmacy to ask a distributor, but not every distributor, not any distributor, but only the one that distributes the drug in order to deliver it at a time accustomed, it is listed here without undue delay. I've been assured by lawyers that it's a common term that's legally viable, accountable, and defensive. So the drug should just be delivered to the pharmacy in this case. But there was hysteria in the form of the hundreds of e-mails that came to you and that were probably caused by a certain misunderstanding on the one hand, but on the other hand, I think by manipulating the leadership of the Association of Small Pharmacies, which seems too benevolent to the Senate proposal. But de facto, I think it's progress. Small and medium pharmacies can also receive exceptional medications in this case - of course for the prescription, so there can be no reexport. He can't. In order for any pharmacy to ask the distributor for any amount of lucrative drug that would be used to enrich the report itself, this proposal does not allow this. I think all hysteria is useless and mostly misleading. Alarmed for many pharmacies. And I consider this the original task that lies behind this parliamentary amendment, which actually wanted to allow small and medium-sized pharmacies to receive exceptional medicines, so that it does not happen that the distributor simply rejects the drug for any reason, so I consider it fulfilled. And who will look closely - English so-called. peer review - who looks at both suggestions, so I think they need to see it there. Of course, different circumstances may arise, and I don't want to say it fully, but the law often goes around that. There's no way I'm sorry, and I'm not taking that position. And now a little more stuff. Both amendments still contain the issue of distributors and producers, and that is what concerns me. Since the advantages of distributors are quite subversive here, in the parliamentary proposal, which was not seen at first sight, and only further discussions, especially with the Úohs, revealed it. Here you can see that the discussion is beneficial, and even if we can argue that sometimes large-scale discussions are misleading, in this case it has proved to be the other way around. The issue of drug distribution over the years of the free market is so inconspicuous, misleading, confusing that it is not quite easy to get into the problem enough. On the other hand, it is reasonable to admit that the farm industry with distribution is always five to ten steps ahead of us, i.e. before legislation. Especially in front of doctors or pharmacists. In the case of a Member's amendment, it is possible to create other and other distributors who will be able by law to ask the manufacturer for any medicine to deliver it within two days to the requesting pharmacy. In fact, we support distributor companies, and the ÚOHS has fundamental comments against this. In the second, Senate proposal then the distribution of drugs behaves exactly the same as now, but except that they will have to supply the required pharmacy with the medicine within the time limit called. without undue delay. They can say different things, but that's the circumvention. Now let's go to the manufacturers. I know it's not quite that simple, and I had to do it all the time because it's an important issue, it's important to deal with it. A little more to the manufacturers. On the part of the producers, I must admit that the first parliamentary proposal forces farms to supply all distributors on request. However, it will be difficult for them to do so, because the so-called clause is inserted in it. the market share. It's been said here. And even if there is a definition of a market share, it is vaguely formulated here and it will cause problems. In the second Senate proposal, the situation is basically what it is now. I will not and do not want to stand up for the farm company or favour them in the law, but the parliamentary proposal may discourage them from introducing new innovative medicines in the Czech Republic because of fear of being re-exported and thus inaccessible to our patients. There's a lot of possibilities for them, but it wouldn't be very pleasant. I see that as a possible threat to our patients. [[15.20 hours]] I'm not saying that so far the distribution of drugs, especially so-called. channels, it's called directly to the pharmacy, direct to the pharmacy, or directly to the hospital, direct to hospital, that they're kosher methods. No way. On the contrary. But it is a complex issue that cannot be cancelled by one of the Members' proposals made at second reading. This would require a thorough discussion with all possible participants so that we can reach the level of Western countries where these practices are not conceivable. However, we will not stop them with this proposal. I don't see how we could have created rules for globalized farms ourselves in the Czech Republic. There is a need for joint action with other European states, not only with the EU, which is too rigid and basically not working today. Suma sumarum, coming to a conclusion. After a thorough evaluation of both proposals, I believe that small and medium-sized pharmacies will be satisfied in both cases - to some extent. Not absolutely, please. Secondly, if we accept the parliamentary proposal, we will favour distributors. And thirdly, drug manufacturers will be at risk of a parliamentary proposal, and if we accept a Senate proposal, the situation will not actually change for them. And as I said, I do not defend it and repeatedly during discussions with pharmacists I said: I am in favour of talking about this issue so that we can find some solution that would be beneficial for everyone, especially for patients. It all seems to me that I will take the side of the Senate proposal and recommend its approval. However, if this does not happen for any reason, I will also vote in favour of the parliamentary proposal, because the fundamental idea of this amendment is needed here, and it is in the report and clinical studies, and we need this without any doubt. As you can see, with my speech, I have, to a certain extent, denied my signature and my patronage under the parliamentary proposal that I first defended. It's not easy at all. You all know the famous Churchillův sentence, I won't repeat it, but it's really very hard to admit that a change of heart can occur. And I firmly believe that the second version - Senate - is more elegant. She also helps SÚKLU and has some other technical improvements, but she is more elegant and in this case I would like to speak for her. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador, for your contribution. Would Jan Zahradník also like to comment on the rapporteur of the Committee on European Affairs? Do you wish to comment, Mr. Ambassador, or not? You're interested. Okay, great. Before you reach me, I'll read some apologies. He apologizes for the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies on 31. 1. 2017 to 3. 2. 2017 For personal reasons, Mr. Václav Horáček, apologizes to Mr. Marek Černoch on 31. 1. from 16 to 18 o'clock for work reasons and apologizes to Mr Ivan Pilný 31. 1. from 15 a.m. to the end of the hearing for health reasons. And now you have the floor, rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u10	Thank you, Mr President. The Committee on European Affairs dealt with this law on a more formal basis, i.e. whether the proposal submitted to the House is in accordance with EU law. As rapporteur, I tried to push for the opinion that it is not entirely in line, but finally the committee rejected this question by voting, so according to the resolution of the committee, which I do not have in my hands right now, but which I can quote freely or at least freely formulate, it says that the proposal tabled is in accordance with EU law. In that case, I, as rapporteur, do not want to comment on this, either, because I then tabled some amendments, not as rapporteur, but as rapporteur, and those proposals have not been approved. So my opinion in this direction is now neutral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I am now opening the debate, and our distinguished guest, Senator Koliba, will be the first to speak in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u12	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, honourable Members, Dear Ministers, Minister, Dear Guests, allow me, as Chairman of the Committee on Health and Social Policy of the Senate of the Czech Republic, to bring you draft law No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and Amendments to Certain Related Regulations, it was Senate Document No. 5 and Parliamentary Document No. 706. As has already been said here from the mouth of the Minister, we are the draft law amending the Act on Medicines and at the same time the Act on Advertising Regulation, the Act on Public Health Insurance, the Civil Service Act, which was passed by the Chamber of Deputies of the Senate on 18 November, the Senate's Organising Committee ordered the draft law to our committee as a guarantee committee and the committee meeting on 13 December was attended by all representatives of the relevant forces. We invited the pharmacy chamber, the Grémium of pharmacies owners and others so that everyone on our committee would have the opportunity to comment and comment. Given the diversity of opinions, it was not possible to comply with all the comments, and we have therefore reached a compromise version, as amended by the amendments that have already been read, which have come from the Senate. The amendments were tabled mainly on the basis of comments from the State Institute for Drug Control and were discussed with the Ministry of Health. At its third meeting in the 11th term of office on 14 December 2016, the Senate decided by voting number 46 by 52 votes from 59 senators present to return the bill to the Chamber of Deputies with amendments contained in the annex to resolution 62. The government, as the petitioner of the bill, was represented by the Minister of Health, Dr. . Miloslav Ludvík, who gave a positive opinion on the amendments contained in the Annex to resolution 62 under points 1 to 6 and 8, and on paragraph 7, gave a neutral opinion. Now let me give you very briefly the reasons for these amendments. To point 1. The Act on Medicines still in force does not regulate the access of administrative bodies, especially the State Institute for Drug Control, to the basic registers, although it is necessary for this office to properly fulfil its statutory obligation. The purpose of the amendment is therefore to correct this, in quotation marks, lack and add to the law provisions introducing the authorisation of the State Institute for Drug Control to use reference data from the basic population register, data from the agenda information system of the population register and data from the agenda information system of foreigners. It is mainly about ensuring the operation of prescription of medical regulations, especially in electronic form, when electronic signatures are stored in the central repository of electronic recipes and their management is carried out by SÚKL. [[15.30 hours]] On point 2 - Amendment 2. As you know, in the media it was said that The Senate has released the so-called amendment. Antimonopoly provisions. But it is the opposite. If we passed the law without any adjustments, there would be a contradiction, which was pointed out directly to us by the Office for the Protection of Competition, which stated that the parliamentary proposal is in sharp violation of the principles of competition protection. It was mainly the introduction of a contractual obligation for pharmaceutical producers and the related strengthening of the position of distributors together with the low controlability of the supply of pharmaceuticals in relation to the market share of distributors. The proposal, according to the conclusions of the ÚOHS, would not in itself guarantee the fulfilment of the main objective of this provision, thus ensuring the availability of medicinal products for patients. That is why we have complied with these comments. It should be stressed that the Authority no longer has any objections to the Senate to the proposed amendment to this provision. An adjustment concerning the distribution of medicines, as adopted by the Chamber of Deputies, would be difficult to apply in practice, particularly when it comes to the question of securing and defining the market share of distributors. One more comment on the distribution of drugs. It would be wrong to state directly in the law that certain medicines need to be delivered within two working days, because this is simply not technically possible for some medicines, for example in cases where production lasts for several weeks. The obligation of the distributor to supply drugs is set in the amendment by the term 'without undue delay', which should indicate that this is a very short period of time. This means without delay, without delay. This is an immediate and immediate act to fulfil this obligation. It is also used in other legal contexts. This is therefore a term that our legal order knows and as such will enable distributors to react flexibly to the current situation. On point 3 of the amendment. The intention is to respond to a provision defining the factual nature of an administrative offence pursuant to § 105 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (t) the Act on Medicines on the New Senate proposed wording of § 77 para. Article 4 (1) (a) (h) that law. In paragraph 4, the proposed amendment aims to eliminate the duplication of sanctions for the commission of an administrative offence pursuant to § 105 para. Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (a) the Act on Medicines. Point 5 - The intention of the proposed amendment is to make it clear that the decree for the implementation of Paragraph 77 (2) is to be issued. Article 4 (1) (a) (f) the Act on Medicines is under the common jurisdiction of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture pursuant to § 114 para. 2 of the said Act. Point 6. In the light of the Senate's proposed text of Section 77 of the Act on Medicines, which does not foresee the adoption of implementing legislation, the amendment proposes to delete the reference to the provision cited in Article 114 (2) of the Act on Medicinal Products. Article 2 (2) of the Law provides that: To point 7. Since Directive 2009/39/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 May 2009 on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses governing the concept of food for particular nutritional uses has been repealed with effect from 20 July 2016 by Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 June 2013, the proposed amendment is intended to delete that concept from the proposed version of the amendment to the Advertising Regulation Act. A point No 8. The proposed amendment is intended to specify for the relevant provisions of the proposed law an exception to the general effectiveness of this law. Madam, ladies and gentlemen, let me conclude by asking you to understand this situation. I know that the legislative process is complicated. Believe me, in the Senate of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, we are also trying very responsibly to approach the individual points of legislation that are coming in both committees and plenary. And, of course, it's a question of all senators according to their best knowledge and conscience. But it is also a question of some responsibility to the citizens who have sent us to these institutions. I would therefore ask you to support the wording of this Act, as amended by the Chamber of Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Mr. Senator, thank you. I'm registering six registered for the debate. First, then, is Mrs Marková. Mr. Skalický will be ready. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to briefly present here the opinion of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia on this returned proposal by the Senate. In connection with the return of the amendment to the Act on Medicinal Products of the Senate, the debate on the so-called reexports of medicines and access of patients in the Czech Republic to the necessary treatment. European countries treat parallel exports in a completely different way according to how expensive they are with medicinal products. Rather, countries with higher price levels support imports, as it can save care payers and patients. The countries that prevent exports have cheaper medicines and their exports can make it worse for patients. These countries include the Czech Republic and Slovakia. Our closest neighbour, Slovakia, but he has taken such measures to prevent this unfortunate practice through EU criticism against reexports. Their adjustment concerns only medicinal products regulated by public health insurance payments and, where appropriate, exports may be made only on the basis of a decision and on behalf of the marketing authorisation holder of the medicinal product. So the distributor completely goes around. At the same time, the pharmacy is required to give the medicine exclusively to the patient. This pressure on pharmacies isn't from the point of view. After all, this has been confirmed recently by the director of the State Institute for Drug Control of Information, that illegal pharmacies that are not authorised to distribute appear more and more frequently in the Czech Republic. Recently, the State Institute for Drug Control, thanks to its controls, has imposed fines of 34 million. CZK for the illegal export of medicinal products to pharmacies, especially for patients with angina or diabetes, worth almost 150 million. Crowns. It is clear that it is not possible to throw all pharmacies into one bag and we must distinguish those with a distribution permit from those in our squares and the streets of small towns that sometimes compete for survival and that the patient has access to his medicines. It is characteristic that the current government coalition, in agreement with the right-wing opposition, rejected my amendment to the amendment to this law, which accurately copied the Slovak draft and was prepared along with the patient organizations. But business in at least three miles. Unfortunately, the koruna is more important to us than the real needs of patients. We are now going to have a renegotiated discussion about the Senate version. And we are right in the middle of this debate, which is being fought primarily by pharmacists. They even organized a kind of pressure action. From all over the Republic, requests for acceptance of the original House form are sent to the post office of Parliament. Pharmacists have thus become part of one fighting lobby against the other, with the fact that they too stand for the controversial form of a law that does not really solve anything. It may paradoxically act as export support where the intention of a distributor or pharmacy with a distribution authorisation is not to provide such goods to Czech patients. This obligation is lacking in the Senate proposal. The only way to actually deal with parallel drug exports, prevent immoral billions of profits, and secure the necessary medicines for Czech patients without unnecessary demands on public finances is to adopt the form of a law that Slovakia has today. However, the current Chamber of Deputies, apart from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, does not have enough courage and will. [[15.40 hours]] I'm just going to add an interesting update to the drawing. While last October, when Slovakia experienced the greatest shortage of drugs, there were 2,644 different types of medicines missing in the country, this January it was only 365 drugs, i.e. about 14 percent of the original number. Seven times fewer missing drugs for Slovak patients are clear proof that the Slovak example needs to be followed if we really, not on the eye, want to prevent the reporters. The House and Senate versions do not fulfill this intention. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u15	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Skalický and Mr Svoboda will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u16	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the amendment to the Act on Medicines and, at the outset, I agree with the Minister that this or the version must be approved. I would like to remind you here that the original amendment primarily followed three fundamental objectives. Firstly, it was the transposition of the Council of the European Union Regulation No 536 of 2014 on clinical trials of medicinal products for human use mentioned here by Professor Vyzula. And all the colleagues who move in this area know what's going on. Secondly, it was the issue of counterfeits, cooperation between the General Directorate of Customs and the SÚKL in identifying counterfeits and especially in ordering via the Internet, which could be a big problem in the future. Thirdly, it is indeed a restriction on the return as such, when we know that this issue has been identified and simply the reexport has increased especially in 2010 and 2013 and then in the following years. I would just like to point out here that in 2013 pharmacies with a distribution permit were partially restricted by the amendment of this law, but it has turned out that this partial step and this adjustment did not have practically any effect. Who's really involved in the report. So practically everyone participates in the report, i.e. manufacturers, marketing authorisation holders, distributors or pharmacies with a distribution permit. In this amendment, the Ministry of Health has tried quite significantly to address the issue of reexport, even in my opinion - which I presented earlier - in a rather complicated form of administrative character, which requires repeated cooperation between the SÚKL and the Ministry of Health. However, it is a step forward to at least complicate or limit the reexport. In addition, there is a problem that we are dealing with here today, and that is the lack of some medicines in pharmacies. It is owed to say that there are many causes. Some have to do with the report, some have nothing to do with the report. However, they are largely related to deliveries from distributors, as distributors supply medicinal products to pharmacies. As far as the parliamentary version or the relevant amendment is concerned, I am convinced here that it addresses the whole issue in the manufacturer's chain - distribution - pharmacy. A brief remark on the two working days. I think that's a bit of a proxy problem, because even when dealing with distributors, they made it clear to you that two working days isn't such a big deal to them. Furthermore, I would like to say that the parliamentary proposal concerns common medicines for recipes. Therefore, it is not central medicines and it is not so called. DTP channels. As far as the Senate version is concerned, "without undue delay" in the workplace, then I agree that legally this term is actually used, it is correct, it is normal, lawyers have no problem with it. The question is how, of course, in real practice on this issue could be used or, respectively, it would work. From my point of view, the Senate version is really so simple that some of the conditions that are in the House version aren't much of a solution. It is assumed that, as has already been mentioned here, it will simply be that way and that it can be done. I'd just like to say for a short time what doesn't matter, not what they're dealing with. That's what we heard here. In principle, the Senate version retains the monopoly position of distributors, which no one questioned, but it owes us to realise that those distributors are the largest reporters in the chain at the same time. That's what it is, and no one's questioning it. The manufacturer is not obliged to supply medicines to multiple distributors. That was also said here, and it's up to us to discuss whether it's right or not. I think he should be obliged to supply more distributors. Next. The distributor has no obligation to supply the medicine for patients to any pharmacy, that's the pressure for any pharmacy to contact distributors. And then the wording without undue delay - I mentioned here that it is legally okay. Only practice would show whether it is functional and to what extent. Two more short notes. First of all, the position of the UOHS. In my opinion, the opinion of the Court on the House version is too vague, it is not explicit. I quote: The proposed amendment considers that it is potentially leading to negative effects on competition. I admit that the term "potentially leading to negative impacts" can be interpreted in various ways. The last comment on distributors and chain pharmacies, because there is the biggest problem in my opinion, not whether it is two working days, two days, or without undue delay. We know that there are four large distributors in the Czech Republic: Penta with a network of pharmacies Max - 394 pharmacies, Phoenix with the owner of a chain of pharmacies Benu - 250 pharmacies, Allianz Helsker with a virtual chain Alfega - approximately 250 pharmacies, and Pharmos, virtual chain myjelekarna.cz - about 405 pharmacies. If the Senate proposal is actually maintained by the monopoly distributor system, the long-term Senate proposal will actually support and strengthen the link between the monopoly distributor and its chain pharmacy. Regardless of the action taking place on the arguments of one or the other party, I checked outside the pharmacy, which belongs to the chains, that colleagues have a problem ordering medicinal products from a distributor with whom they are not. The answer is clear: We will primarily put it in our pharmacy, in our pharmacies - and ask for some time, maybe we will give you something. So for me, the biggest problem is that there's no obligation for distributors to deliver to any pharmacies. For this reason, I really consider the Senate proposal to be so benevolent, with the fact that it has missed, released or assumed some steps as automatic, that the Senate proposal cannot be supported. And I can only say that the practice, whether it passes through one or the other, will show in quotation marks which the party is or was more right, because both arguments from one side and from the other side are relevant somewhere, somewhere purposeful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u17	How thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Svoboda, Mr Kostřica will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u18	Mr President, Minister, Mr Senator, like my previous speaker, I must say that this law must be adopted in some form. It is simply necessary for our system. And both Senate and MP versions contain both a number of errors and a number of positive things. Unfortunately, we have to bet positive on these things because we want to move the health sector forward. We have heard the Minister's extensive argument. And then I see what my colleague Skalický said as the second major analysis of these materials. I also believe that the whole hysteria around this law is based on things that are irrelevant. It does not matter two days or immediately. I understand that it's a problem for a pharmacist when a patient comes for a medicine to say, "I'll get it for you immediately." He needs to say "come back tomorrow" or "the day after 2:00, I'll have the cure." From this point of view, the definition in days seems good to me, although I perceive well all the problems that such a definition brings. But it's irrelevant. I firmly believe that the problem of this law is not the reexport of drugs. Because not one version solves it to stop it. Not one version solves it to stop it. Of course, like everyone else, I've been flooded with many emails, as the Minister calls it, one lobbyist group. I just have to say that at the moment when I start getting these emails, we've seen them on a number of different topics, so I stop reading them. It doesn't make any sense, and counting whether there were 100 or 50, I don't give a damn. It's actually a technical question, how many times can you send the same text under different names. That's why I tried to get to know the issue. I have spoken to the people involved, at the level of the large pharmacies and the questions of the large distributors, even at the level of the small pharmacies, and I think that what is essential to us is that the parliamentary version addresses the issue of small pharmacies in a way. [[unintelligible]] I am convinced that small pharmacies have their place in our medical system. I would hate for us to end up here with just big chain pharmacies, and everyone would get on the bus and drive to some macro, where they would provide it at 11 o'clock in the evening, whether for a direct payment or for a recipe. I think the patient's communication with the pharmacist has something to do with it, and it's not sentimental. It's not sentimental, it's a fact I know, because patients still have that pharmacist as one of their counselors in their health problems. I've seen the mechanism - from the documentation, from the orders, and then from the solution, how big distributors approach those small pharmacies. And of course, it is quite clear that their interest is on large volumes. Therefore, they also treat the small volumes in pharmacies so that in the first version they immediately promise to get it, and in the second step they will not give them anything, because they will say that at the moment they no longer have the cure. I am convinced that strengthening the strength of the four chains we have here would be a mistake simply because at that moment we will become completely dependent on someone we will not have any leverage on, because none of these proposals give any strong leverage for it. Just opening a space for a larger number of pharmacies, making contact with those patients can make a little bit of adjustments. I know what I'm saying can be twisted in the head, that it isn't, and someone else can nod. It is a problem that is very difficult to analyse and must - unfortunately - everyone take a position that, once again, will not be completely clean simply because both proposals contain a number of problematic points and errors. Choosing from two evils is the least a Member can do. But I am convinced, now that I say that we will support the parliamentary version of the proposal, I support a matter that will benefit the health sector. If I'm right, I don't know, but after considering all the facts that are on the table, I've decided this way and with me our MP's club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u19	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Rom Kostřica will now appear. Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me also return to this amendment of the law. Unlike one previous speaker, I also read about 120 e-mails from some pressure group or organized group and selected those from my region, which means the South Moravian Region. In the previous 14 days I managed to contact either personally or by phone 37 owners of pharmacies and chains to actually find out what the real state of affairs is. I think I have 21 pages here, don't worry, I won't burden you with it, 21 pages - heavily written - medicines that have been missing in these small pharmacies or family pharmacies over the last 4 or 5 months, even in chains. Of course, many of them repeat themselves. I would like to say here that I have ruled out corporate shortcomings, such as framykoin, when indeed production was unable to deliver these preparations. I didn't want to mention that. Of the 37 addressed, 33 were fundamentally expressed for the well-known version, the MP version of this law, which is understandable because they are founders of pharmacies, it is their property, who understandably seek to satisfy patients in some way and operate their - I do not say business, but my job, which is understandable. Only in two cases have I heard that they are satisfied with this matter. However, these were the questions I asked the pharmacies in larger chains. Only one, such smaller, or one pharmacy was satisfied with the state of things, however it was a pharmacy, which was in a very preferred classic position, which apparently had no problems with regulations as such. When I look at it from the other side, I clearly understand the Minister's efforts, or the Ministry of Health, to prevent any kind of report. But it seems kind of illogical to me that this is essentially a restriction on the supply of drugs to these small pharmacies. Because if I were on the side of a reporter, I would try to address the distributor in particular - logically. I wouldn't be looking for individual boxes of medicine in small pharmacies. So I believe that if it were a re-export of these drugs, I would, of course, focus on the distributor, whether he has monopoly status or quadruple status, that's another matter. This is not the problem of the patients' side, because if they don't get the appropriate medicine in the pharmacy, they go two or three streets away and they get the appropriate medicine there. But remember, there are a number of patients who are essentially dependent on one pharmacy, when the next is 5, 10, 20 kilometers away, and there, of course, the timely delivery of the drug is problematic. I can tell you that, as a doctor in some cases, I preferred another type of medicine, which was also possible, but it wasn't as effective as any, because I saw that the patient couldn't get it anytime soon. And these aren't special medications. [[16.00 hours]] I'm only going to quote one example here when there was a question for the distributor at the pharmacy. I'll just read a few lines. We need to order Fraksiparin 3x0,1 milliliter. Can you please increase the limit? In October we took two pieces and another cannot be ordered. We would need to increase to about ten pieces per month. The distributor's answer is this: In view of the very low stock of this product, I would like to ask you to include only the urgent amount for ordering, a scanned copy of the prescription with the patient's covered data. - When you look at it from the practical impact, you realize that the patient actually comes to the pharmacy, they say, "I'll try to order it," they take his prescription, they cover his name, his nationals, they scan it, they send it to the distributor, and then he decides whether or not to send it. That's the thing that I think is somehow the problem that I saw as the original, the reexport, is being transferred to not only the pharmacy, but especially the patients. For this reason, I firmly believe that the parliamentary version of this law should have an absolute top over the senator's. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u21	Thank you, too. Today, with a replacement card number 61, Prime Minister Sobotka will vote. I will now ask Mr Ludvík Hovorka to speak and Mr Jiří Štětina will prepare himself. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u22	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the Government, honourable colleagues, this is indeed a complex issue. The Sub-Committee on the Economics in Health, Health Insurance and Drug Policy addressed this at a seminar which was organised on this Act on Medicines and on the issue of distortion of competition. I believe that there is indeed a distortion of competition in the area of distribution of medicinal products in the Czech Republic, and in fact the seminar pointed to this. They were given the opportunity to express themselves both to the Ministry of Health and to the State Institute for Drug Control, as well as to pharmaceuticals and distributors, including large distributors and small distributors and industry representatives. I would like to express some embarrassment to the position of the Ministry of Health when, first, I suspect, sometime in October or November, both amendments to this law unanimously supported Mr Vyzula's amendment, which significantly reduces the prices of generics and biosimiliars, i.e. a copy of biological medicines, and also Mr Běhounek's amendment, which actually introduces the possibility, or directs the bulk supply of medicines to all pharmacies. At the time, the Ministry and Minister Němeček clearly supported this and the entire Health Committee also supported it. I think that these proposals have been approved unanimously. So it is surprising that in two months the view is completely different and the Ministry supports the Senate version, which essentially eliminates the proposals to a large extent. I asked what happened at the Ministry. They told me there was an exchange of ministers. I don't know if that's the biggest problem. However, in principle, I would like to say that it was proposed in the Senate to replace this solution proposed by Mr Běhounek with a completely different text which weakens the distributor's obligation to deliver to each pharmacy and completely removes the manufacturer's obligation to deliver to the distributor. So the Ministry of Health, even though it was fully in agreement with Mr Běhounek's amendment for less than two months, supported a completely different solution approved by the Senate in the Senate. The content of the criticism of the parliamentary version was that it distorts competition, among other things, by introducing contractual obligations on drug producers, by disrupting their business models of supply to DTP pharmacies and creating room for reexport. That it is not clear how the concept of market share will be interpreted, that it fixes existing market conditions and that the two-day period for doses to the pharmacy is too strict for the distributor. The role of the Chamber of Deputies is now to assess whether these objections are justified and whether the Senate version sufficiently addresses the problem of the availability of drugs in pharmacies, or whether it is necessary to lean towards the parliamentary version. I'll give you my opinion. The problem of the availability of medicines in some pharmacies is real. Patients and pharmacists have been alerting him for years. This is the result of a systematic and long-term violation of the applicable competition law, which unfortunately has not yet been sufficiently addressed by the Office for the Protection of Competition. And when he responded to the stimuli, so badly, see the problem of the supply of Clexan to the pharmacies. This problem can be addressed either by a more consistent approach of the Competition Authority or by legislation. Reexport is a problem of the current state, when it is exported for about CZK 3.5 billion, it will deliver for approximately CZK 350 million. So one-tenth of them will be delivered from abroad to those medicines that are cheaper abroad. The biggest share of the report from the financial point of view is so called. Centre drugs, although these drugs supply only a very limited number of distributors and although most specialized centres are state and public hospitals. Therefore, the existing limited distribution channels do not prevent the reexport. Reexport may pose a hidden corruption risk. The reduction of the number of distributors in hospitals leads to lower competition and fewer competitors in public procurement. As a result, central medicines are almost universally reported to health insurance companies for maximum higher remuneration, i.e. including maximum margins, although the real market price of these medicines is substantially lower in some cases. The correct legislative solution to all these problems, at least for the most important medicines paid, would be the introduction of direct purchases of medicines by health insurance companies. The transfer of ownership of the paid medicine from the manufacturer directly to the health insurance company would prevent the reexport and the health insurance company would reach more favourable prices and the health insurance company would also be obliged to ensure equal regional availability of the medicines. This model would make it possible to pay for the work of pharmacists in a performance manner and to remove unnecessary middlemen drawing a margin. Transparency and predictability of the market would be strengthened. This model has already worked here until it was cancelled by Minister Rath. However, this solution is not possible because, at a given stage of the legislative process, it is only possible to choose between an existing Member or Senate version of the law. Out of these two options, I am leaning towards the parliamentary version, as it better addresses the problem of the availability of drugs in pharmacies. I consider the objections raised against this version to be solvable, unwarranted and incompatible with European competition law. Now I would like to say that the fact that actually drugs to hospitals, especially those expensive center medicines, are supplied exclusively by the distributor, so of course it limits competition, virtually. they're essentially canceling the competition because one single supplier is going to deliver at a price they're going to set. The Minister has made a reservation here, namely that Mr Běhounek's amendment does not address the supply of medicines directly to the pharmacy. I would like to say that in Mr Vyzula's amendment, which we have approved, it is just added in part of his amendment, in the second amendment, that in Section 82, at the end of paragraph 3, the dot is replaced by a comma and that point (h) is added: if it is a pharmacy operator, it is obliged to use medicinal products supplied by a distributor in accordance with Paragraph 77 (1). Article 4 (1) (a) (h) exclusively for dispensing to patients or health service providers. And since both this amendment and Mr Běhounek's amendment have been approved, I consider the issue of supplies to pharmacies, not distributors for further distribution, to be resolved. [[16.10 hours]] Now I would briefly touch § 19b, which was brought by the SÚKL or the Ministry of Health to the Senate Committee. With this amendment, the State Institute for Drug Control establishes almost unlimited access to the basic population register and to the agenda information systems of the population and foreigners' records. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 6 of the proposed section 19b states that the data provided can always be used in a specific case only those data which are necessary to fulfil the task in question, but, given the almost impenetrable definition of the tasks of the SÚKL, see Section 13 of the Act on Medicines, the Institute thus establishes the right of access to the basic register with virtually no limitations, and all this in addition, without the Senators having the opportunity to notice the importance of this proposal, to realise its importance and at least to have a fundamental discussion about it. The one before the adoption of this provision did not take place at all. The Senators were only presented with a brief explanation that such an approach is needed by the State Institute for Drug Control. This, however, does not correspond to the significance of this change. And if he really needed this state constitution, he should have brought it up in the House, in the House Committee, and there would certainly have been an adequate discussion. In conclusion, I want to say that we have received a lot of e-mails, but I really want to mention one e-mail here. We don't often get a letter from the American Chamber of Commerce that supports some version of the law, but it's happened at least twice. More years ago, we received a letter from the US Chamber of Commerce asking us to support the Act on crowding out minority shareholders from stock companies. And here we got a letter that we're being presented that the best possible version is the Senate version. So what I'm saying is that if we really want to limit what works today, the monopolization of the market and the supply restrictions to certain pharmacies and certain distributors, I think we need to support the Senate version as we did last time. And I hope that we will do so in a majority way as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u23	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will now ask Mr Jiří Štětina to speak in the debate and Mr Leoš Heger will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u24	Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, Mr Senator, honourable Members, I have promised not to speak for long. I don't like long words, so I'll do the same. Moreover, we have heard many reasonable and true words here. Yes, I haven't noticed any lobbyist words yet, no pressure. I think all the discussions were in all honesty and decency. It's okay. So I'll have a simple task. I'm basically going to sum up here - so the minister doesn't have to do it, but he's going to do it anyway, because he has to do it - basic things, and finally, I'm going to say how we're going to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, what's going on? It's about money in the first place. We all know that the medication may be about 70 billion. plus minus something. So this is about maintaining the financial flow as it is. And it doesn't matter if it's one distributor or the other, or if it's pharmacies, etc. Before I made any comments - and, of course, I point out professionally, because there is no politics here. There's no point in arguing if it's a thing from the right side, which is called. conservative, and from the left side, which is called. Social. I don't think that's what this is about. I've checked every opinion I've heard from at least two sides, and I've often felt like I was some kind of investigator, because I had to find the answer I had to identify with some opinions that I didn't like. And I'm actually getting close to that conclusion. I don't think we can let any law be passed. And I'd like everyone here to understand that. As the Minister said, and, of course, the rapporteur, Professor Vyzula, has done so through you, we need to have an amended law on medicines. I will, of course, support the proposal of the Chamber of Deputies, because we have discussed this many times, we have argued many times, we have talked to all the representatives, both with pharmacists who perform health services, i.e. They give out drugs, of course, with those who produce them and who distribute them. But I think, and I think that even in those discussions, the opinions are that it's about about 50-50 at this time. So, of course, I'm not going to point out or say in any way right now to vote in favour of one or the other proposal, but we just have to have that law. And if we didn't have it, I beg you, it's our loss. And all the way to the end. When I learned or read that we were missing Berodual, which is an elementary medicine for asthma treatment in children, I just don't think it's right for a person who's had over 50 years of experience writing death certificates to young children for asthma. I consider it a crime. It's an elementary medicine that helps us a lot. And of course, today, if we have these bronchodilators, of course, we don't even know what asthma death is anymore. So I think we can cut back on the report, of course, because we can never stop it. And we must not allow drugs that are necessary not only for emergency care, but for emergency care to be re-arranged. Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. So now, the last one entered in the general debate, Mr Leoš Heger. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u26	Dear Prime Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, good evening. Allow me, if I am the last one, to sum up just a few oddities that this proposal, which we have here, has accompanied. I would like to assure the Minister in advance, although I have a different opinion from what he said I was optimistic because his predecessor, Mr. Němeček, showed with the smoking bill that social democracy is handy and able to enforce it in a redesigned version within a week. Let's hope it turns out okay. I also think that the law is needed, especially with regard to the translation part. And maybe it's a memento certain that the transpositions are really done as pure transpositions and don't get complicated in that case where problems can be suspected. Of course, it is not Minister Ludvík' fault that this was done. I'm sure it was in good faith. But it happens here repeatedly. And I can only confirm from my experience what has happened here many times, that it is extremely difficult to deal with pharmaceutical matters, that regulation is at many extracurricular levels, and it is generally known that pharmaceutical traders at all levels can always manage somehow. [[16.20 hours]] So let me just recapitulate some of the doubts that have already been raised here, and I will sum them up into a short block. Our club, as has already been said here, will vote in favour of the version of pharmacies, which means the version that passed through the House. We are in favour of better provision of drugs in pharmacies, especially in small ones. It is strange, although the interpretation here has been made that the Senate proposal is much more perfect, we have legal opinions available from a rich correspondence, also quite well-founded, which speaks in favour of the interpretation presented by small pharmacies. Finally, it was said that the opinion of the Ministry, which, after the adoption of the Civil Service Act, should represent a kind of opinional rock in each resort, probably does not represent it when the opinion could turn so quickly, including the opinion of the SÚKLU, which was consulted in the so-called Běhounkův's proposal, and the proposal was born for a long time, very hard and was born with consultations at the Ministry and SÚKLU, and suddenly everything is different. That's the first kind of confusion that the law is procedurally accompanying. The opinion of the Competition Authority is also very specific. Apparently, the materials were two, one more detailed and one that were received by Members, who is completely without an explanation and only states what was not the office's responsibility, what was the approval procedure, but what is the reason for the suspicion that competition would be distorted is not a word, not to mention what was here in the debate by a few people, Mr Hovorka's last colleague, has made it very clear that competition is very strongly distorted today. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] The third strangeness is the position of the SÚKL, which I often do not criticize, but in this case the procedure in which the law, as Mr Vyzula said here, lay in the House -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u27	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but I will request, colleagues and colleagues, to keep your voice down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u28	Thank you. I promise I'll be short. It was said that the law lay in the House for one and a half years. Time could easily be used to consult registers, which is a delicate matter especially in the health sector, could be discussed in the House, and suddenly, and without the desired debate, it was adopted by the Senate. I stress this with the Senate, which rejected the law, which we will discuss in a moment, which rejected it because the amendment tabled was tabled as an amendment and the principle of debate over the law was violated. Here at the entry into the register, it's quite the opposite. There was a non-disclosure in the Senate. It was also said here by Senator Koliba that the electronic recipe is the main reason why SÚKL wants to look into the population register, but the statements we heard in the meantime were rather in the sense that not the electronic recipe, but the supervisory and supervisory activities of the SÚKL require this, and administrative proceedings with the entities that are being punished. The explanation isn't given very consistently either. And one last thing. A colleague named Hovorka also mentioned her here. It is an intervention by the American Chamber of Commerce, which, of course, is very much for producers, and if any of the Members put their views in this way, they will be labeled as a lobbyist in a worse sense. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm filing two applications. First of all, with priority rights, Minister Ludvík and a duly signed-in Member, Ludvík Hovorka. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u30	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little embarrassed about one thing. I mean, you're talking about something that this law doesn't solve. This is the basic problem of the standard that the law does not solve the problem so that the pharmacy gets the medicine that it orders. It really doesn't. Take the model situation. In the Czech Republic, I think we have 2,700 pharmacies, I'm sorry, it's going to be a number like that. And a cure of 1,000 pieces is commonly delivered to the Czech Republic. The law can't figure out how to split a thousand pieces between 2,700 pharmacies. I believe that this law should be passed. Once again, we've been talking about one single paragraph of the law all the time, § 77 para. Article 4 (1) (a) h). This, on the other hand, is good news when I accept the two reservations expressed by Mr Hovorka, colleague Heger, that he has been given access to the register, but so be it. But here we are talking about this paragraph, which is supposed to deal with market shares. Here's a generally shared consensus that the law will solve the market shares of pharmacies. It doesn't. He deals with the market shares of distributors, even large distributors. Basically, in other words, the law says: "Dear manufacturer, you, who doesn't want to supply me, the big distributor, with medicine, you, you, and this law, you will have to supply them by now. That's what the law says, that's what it says. I even think it would be really worth a little work to specifically get small pharmacies to some medications. The fact that a colleague here said that Berodual was missing is true. But he's missing at this point, and now a fresh number from Motol, believe me, I have good readings, even Ventolin or Unasyn. Unasyn is an essential antibiotic, without it it is very poorly operated treatment of some types of inflammation. I really have to admit, I don't know how to comment on this, because you're all pretending to be the right thing to do. I have to say, the really good thing is for patients in their pharmacies to get to the drugs. That's the right thing to do, and as Minister of Health, I'm gonna support it with the fact that I have a pharmacy practice in my life, so I really know what the problem is. But unfortunately, this law doesn't solve it. And the wording that thought they were dealing with it is, from my point of view, a formulation that records just one side -- and that side isn't pharmacies. But I don't know how to handle it anymore. Again, the law doesn't solve the proportion of pharmacies, the law solves the proportion of distributors. That's what I wanted to say. Again, I would ask - what has actually been said here several times, the problem is one paragraph or even one letter of one paragraph of one paragraph. So I'm really interrogating myself for the need for the law to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u31	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u32	I really tried to understand the Minister of Health, but I didn't understand him at all. We're supposed to choose from two options, and the minister here will talk in flames and say, "Just make sure one passes." That's alibiism, that's all it is. A surprising change of opinion, and it happens quite often, the government coalition here supports Mr Běhounek's amendment in this case, convincing us all how excellent it is, whether we accept it or not, then the minister leaves, I don't know how many meters it is, towards the Senate, which says: no, no, you don't have to do this. And he comes to us and says it's really serious: it doesn't matter, as long as it goes through. [[16.30 hours]] What's the Minister's position? Is it for the House or for the Senate version? We will not vote on both. We're not gonna... [[Odds from the diaper.]] I didn't get that at all from the show... That is possible, but now he had the final word, responded after the debate, actually did not justify why the Ministry had changed its mind since the previous discussion. I don't like it. When someone is consistent, from start to finish standing up for themselves, that's okay, I can agree with him or not. But I don't know why. What reasons led to a change of opinion? My position is very simple. The Senate proposal goes against the interests and needs of small and independent pharmacies. That's just the way it is! It is customary, this government very often supports large at the expense of small and medium-sized ones and comes to meet the needs of large ones and does not give a damn about small and medium-sized ones. In this case, it's exactly the same. And it doesn't matter if it's one paragraph or one letter. Ask the little ones how they're afraid of it, whether the little ones are for the senate or the House version. The answer is very simple. They're for the House version. So don't say if you didn't convince them it was a threat, don't convince us. Those little pharmacies you didn't convince that the Senate proposal goes against their interest and their continued presence on the market. Then why are you convincing us? If you could convince them and they wrote to us and they said, "We're for the Senate version, it's better, we're as small - because we're logically defending the interests of the little ones - we're for or we're okay with it, so it would be a different situation. But it's exactly the opposite. So the minister defends the interests of the great. It's legitimate, I don't agree.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u33	I apologize, Ambassador, for entering into your speech, but again I will ask for peace in the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u34	Well, it was pretty quiet here for the House, but okay. It didn't limit me at all. Indeed, if the Minister had told you what had changed since the last time. If he came out here last time and said, "That Mr. Běhounek's proposal is on my side, although we made him president of the VZP, he understands it, he's wrong about this, don't support him," I would have believed he had a long-term opinion today, just like the Senate. A change of minister means what? It's a government proposal. In that case, Minister, you should have withdrawn the proposal, convinced the government to withdraw it, and started over and better. I wouldn't mind at all. But to come here and say, I wasn't there, that was my predecessor, by any chance a Social Democrat, but the Prime Minister switched it because we needed new, fresh blood, so here I am, and I changed my mind. I understand that. If it's in the reflection of regional elections that we must now support large pharmacies at the expense of small ones, why not? I think it's weird, but I understand. It's in the subtext, as they say, to get through something, so what are they telling us? Attention, attention, this House version needs more votes, it's already risky. Support the senate. There's just a simple majority. My colleague, Professor Svoboda, has already said this: We will support the House version, because we think the little ones need help and support. Not the big ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u35	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr. Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u36	Mr President, Mr previous speaker, for the first time I am in a situation, I am accused of something politically that I really did not intend to do. Making it a policy that someone supports a large, someone small, I suggest you read the proposal. This wasn't about the D.O.D. changing his mind. This was about the Senate accepting some amendments, and the Ministry spoke to them. Frankly, this is a legitimate legislative process. It runs like that. I can't say it's a big change. I'm still a rookie, I'm sorry, maybe I'm making some mistakes, that's true. But read it, Mr. Ambassador, because there's really no talk of large or small pharmacies. There is talk of whether someone should receive medication in two days or without undue delay. Please, it's some kind of technique. But let's talk about that. Then there's talk of a distributor, I'm saying a distributor, not a pharmacy, but a distributor is supposed to get medication according to market share. I repeat again: what's written in the novel, i.e. in the original proposal, the distributor is supposed to be given medication according to market share. And in the novel that the Senate adopted, it's not a distributor, it's everyone. I even think it's the exact opposite of what you're saying. It's just that the pharmacy gets better because it's in the interests of patients in the Czech Republic. And then it's like... I'm a little uncomfortable with the fact that you're really doing politics -- be careful that the law is passed. Of course, let him accept. He's good. There is simply a problem that one amendment has been adopted, which has been consulted, for which we have been asked. We said the original proposal was accepted in good faith. The amendment is good because it has been consulted with the relevant authorities. I don't want to make this really a policy that somebody else has made of it that bombs MPs here, I don't know, any amount of spam just because - and why not? Why did you bomb... 'Cause I feel like everyone's been confused here. Here he is really deeply convinced about how he is helping small pharmacies. No, small pharmacies can be helped by adopting another law, or rather another proposal. And I have no problem working on it. And I even think that I need to start talking to the Úohs about how competition in the pharmacy supply is respected at all, and I'm sure I'm going to push the SÚKL to investigate very closely when the distributor is lying, that the drug is not in stock, or that it has little, that he has to deliver it to his chain pharmacies. I don't have a problem with that at all. On the contrary, I'm going to work very hard on this. But I'm just - I'm terribly sorry, I don't want to prolong this discussion, but that Senate changeling, that's basically a technical thing that only corrects something that's been put forward with good intentions. I even have to look back on the fact that the Ministry would change its mind in any way. No. This is exactly the legislative process as it should be. Something was accepted, as part of the discussion it was found that it was good to fix it, it was fixed. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u37	Thank you. I'm making one point of fact. Mr. Mr. Freedom. Please, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u38	Thank you for the floor. That's a little bit of training to show the Minister that he opened the debate by speaking. So now we're going back to the beginning again. The Minister doesn't know, so I'm telling him to know for the next time. I think what's important right now is that there are two different opinions. There is no other way to resolve these differences than by voting. I am convinced of this after all the discussions with those involved in this, that the argument that the Minister says is not correct. I've seen the orders, I know how it goes, what distributors do with them, what they deliver, what they don't deliver, how they answer that they have the cure, the next day they announce that they don't have it. These are just things that are essential. And I say again, it may be irrelevant to the great House, but to me, the one person who goes to his pharmacy is important, and the cure is not there. That is crucial to me, and that is why, despite all the objections that have been raised here, I believe that the parliamentary version is correct. And once again, time will tell who was right. I hope I live to see that I win.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u39	Thank you. Just for the record, I say that I have not closed the debate, it is still ongoing and the Minister has declared himself with priority rights. Please, your point of order.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u40	The minister has taken a favourite figure. First of all, I'm new here. He's an experienced politician who knows all the tricks. Where else to learn politics than in Prague? Whoever passes through Prague is very experienced. I think that goes for all political parties, and I wouldn't take social democracy out of it. They then train me that the Senate has the right to submit an amendment. Thank you, Minister, I had no idea. I am glad that the exchange of the Minister eventually took place because we Members would not know what the Senate could do if the new Minister of Health had not told us. And from how upset he was, I realized I was right. Because a normal person makes an argument, he makes an argument. And don't be mad at me, Minister, to describe the fears of many small pharmacies as spams, is the arrogance of great, nothing else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u41	Thank you. Mr Ludvík Hovorka, now duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u42	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, Minister, fellow Members, I am pleased that the Minister will try to push the State Institute for Drug Control and the Office for Competition to really defend competition, so that it is not distorted. Because he, as the manager of the big hospital, had to know what the problem was when he competes with a cure from one single supplier, and it's not a comfortable situation for the hospital. So in this case, I agree with him. However, I do not agree with one thing that he said here that Mr Běhounek's amendment does not address supplies to pharmacies. He does not actually deal with this, but in conjunction with Mr Vyzula's proposed amendment, which adds in his amendment that the drug supplied to the distributor must be exclusively used to deliver to the pharmacy, to the patient, which means that it cannot be re-exported, I think it is essential that we must realise this. And indeed, if you look at it, these two amendments guarantee that the medicines supplied to the distributor must be used in the pharmacy. Finally, because some colleagues did not understand the conclusion I was saying, so please make it clear in the tapestry that I support and support the KDU-ČSL club's version of the bill in the form approved by the Chamber of Deputies that we therefore recommend rejecting the Senate version and then declaring the version approved in the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u43	Thank you and I ask if anyone else is joining the debate. If no one is reporting, I am ending the debate and now I am asking the appellant whether he wants to take the final floor. Mr. Secretary, please take the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u44	Thank you. Now I don't want to make the mistake of trading the final word for discussion. Yeah, okay, one last thing. I really want to say that I will be happy when the Chamber of Deputies adopts the law in the wording either by the Senate or, if it rejects it, in the wording of the Chamber of Deputies. However, I repeat again, my opinion is consistent and I do not think that it would address what was mentioned here as a mere discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u45	Thank you for your final word. And now I ask the rapporteurs whether Mr Rostislav Vyzula wants to take the final floor. Please, you have the final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u46	Thank you, Mr President. I heard when I checked in, Ježíš! - I don't know what it was. However, I beg you, really, we are getting to the point of the law that we want to enforce so that they are under the control of the reporters, they are under the control of the clinical trial. But both these laws are handled by small and medium pharmacies! And we want small and medium pharmacies to have drugs available for every patient. And I really do not understand the debate when it says clearly in this Senate proposal that, in order to ensure the availability of medicinal products, provision should be made for the supply of medicinal products for human use, the distributor of which is authorised to supply medicinal products to operators without undue delay. They're drugstores, aren't they? Any pharmacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-31-ps2013-054-09-002-006.u47	Thank you. I am now asking the rapporteur, Zahradník, whether he wants to take the final floor. It's not like that. We shall take the vote in accordance with Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. In order to adopt the following resolution, the agreement of an absolute majority of Members present is needed. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Acts, pursuant to House Press 706/6, as approved by the Senate pursuant to House Press 706/7." [[Act on Medicines]] I'm registering a request for your report. I'll check you all out first. I'll ask you to sign up with your cards again. I have tabled the motion for a resolution. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion for a resolution, as I have put it. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 279; 146 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 23, against 65. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We shall now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt this resolution. I'm gonna ask you to set the kvora to 101. That's what happened. I shall therefore make a motion for a resolution. "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 378/2007 Coll., on Medicines and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts, as amended, and other Related Acts, as amended, in the version in which it was forwarded to the Senate pursuant to House Press 706/6.' [[Act on Medicines]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 280, 148 Members and Members registered, for proposal 125, against 1. I state that we have adopted the bill. Thank you both to the Senator and the Minister, and I am done discussing this point. I'm opening another point, and that's it.
