ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u1	10. Government bill amending Act No. 328/1999 Coll., on Civil Cards, as amended, and other related laws /house print 928/ - second reading At the rapporteur's table, the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec and Mrs Věra Kovářová, who is the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which is the Committee on Guarantee, took their seats. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 928/1. The Minister is not interested in another introductory word at second reading, so I ask the rapporteur for her information on the committee proposal and, where appropriate, the amendments tabled in the committee. Madam rapporteur, I expect your report for second reading. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u2	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I would just like to remind you that this proposal has been sent to you as press 928/0 -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u3	Madam rapporteur, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. If you're discussing points other than point ten, I.D.'s, please in the lobby. I'll wait. Thank you. You may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u4	Thank you. This press was sent to you on 5. 10. 2016 as print 928/0. The first reading was 19. 10. 2016 and the Guarantee Committee became a Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which discussed the bill and issued 19. 12. 2016 resolution. So let me introduce you to this resolution. The Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development at its 50th meeting after the statement of reasons by Dr Petr Mlsna, Deputy Minister of the Interior, following the report by Mrs Věra Kovářová and after the debate (a) recommends that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve 928 as amended by the amendments adopted. Here I would refer you to House Press 928/1. The amendments relate in particular to the possibility of requesting the issue of a card and passport within a period of 24 hours and five days respectively. That was a). (b) It empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. (c) Instructs the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u5	I thank the rapporteur for her intelligence report. I'm opening the debate. I have two applications for the general debate, Mr Jan Klán and Mr Ivan Pilný. Mr Jan Klán will be the first to take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u6	Thank you for the floor. Good evening, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. Once again, we have an electronic citizen's license bill on the table, where I have been performing here at first reading with a few of my observations. I am very pleased that the Ministry of the Interior has incorporated some of my comments into the amendment tabled by the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. This was especially a reminder of how it would be when people over 70 years of age get a citizen's ID with a 35-year-old chip. I asked there about the relationship between the chip and its lifetime and the expiration of the ID. The point is, if someone wants to use the electronic ID card and the chip for 35 years at the time of the validity of the ID, they'll switch off the service so that their ID is replaced free of charge. However, the problem is a little deeper than this one. I want to ask you how it will be in relation to the lifetime of the chip on the ID card and the expiration time. Even if I follow all the rules that the law tells me how to behave with my ID card - I can't damage it or break it in any way, but it can be a violation of the chip, which will not work if I put it in the reader, whether the reader is normally external or internal in a laptop. It's about whether the Home Office will trade it to me for free. That's a question before I.D.'s expiration date, that's five or ten years. Now, I'm gonna go away for 35 years, because that's a fairly long stretch of time. It's still the alpha omega life of the chip. You know, for example, credit or debit cards with a chip always change after some cycles for a few years, it's been about five years. Because, of course, the card is used. In this case, even the chip wears off in some way when you put it in the reader, so there is also a risk that somehow it stops working, communicates. Then I'll go back to the reader. The law says if I want to communicate with remote access authorities, I have to get a card reader, external if the computer doesn't have one. I have to pay about 200 crowns for it. So there won't be any free stuff. So here's another problem. Another version of how to communicate with the authorities has already been discussed here at first reading by Mr Pilný, who will probably also talk about it today. This concerns remote access to a system where you could use something similar to electronic banking today. This means that you will have a login name, you will get a password and remote access to the portals of the public administration. I can imagine this option, too. When I listened to him on the Economic Committee where it was discussed - the fact is that the development of smartphones is relatively fast and today many people own it. I can imagine a hybrid system, which means we would have this very remote approach for citizens. That means the login name would need a ID number, and the code or password would be the password that the citizen would get, or would choose to activate the chip. That chip would really be there, and it would be a duplicate system. I can really imagine it could work that way, too. The fact that we're walking in the form of a chip is because electronic IDs with a chip have started in some way in the past. However, there was almost nothing on the electronic ID card, only a guaranteed electronic signature, which is where he went to upload the electronic banking certificate. I want to ask the Minister if it's clear what's going to be stored on the contact chip today. I asked the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development about this, and there I was told that it was up to us legislators to say that it should be placed on the chip. So now I don't know if we're gonna do this in the form of a law or if the D.O.D. does it in the form of a decree. There are two options. I'd like to know this, and I'd like to know what might be on that chip. I can personally imagine that my blood type could be there, whether I'm allergic or if I'm sick. It can personally save my life in an accident, if, for example, the authorities, in this case the police, will have a reader of these electronic civil documents so that they can access the system. I'm saying I see it as one of the options. But I'm really interested in whether we're going to do this by law or whether we're going to do it by ministerial decree in this case. I've already said here at first reading that the introduction of electronic citizen's licenses has a back and a face. The advantage is that the citizen will be able to communicate with the authorities remotely, from the comfort of his home. However, the downside may be the creation of the velký bratr, the Big Brother, when all data about me, the physical person, will be passed around the network, stored somewhere, could be targeted by some kind of attack, because everything threatens in cyberspace. I want to ask you how this is treated, whether the Ministry of Interior will really guarantee that there will be no leak of this data. [[17.50 hours]] I'm going to use one analogy here that happened in Germany when the data leaked and abused the private corporation, for example. It's common because all data is collected. On the other hand, when I look at the world of digitized society today, I'm de facto making my data available everywhere. Whether it's some loyalty cards or when I go shopping, some other cards, discount cards, you put your name, residence, date of birth all over the network. However, the state must guarantee that the data will not be misused and that it will not be available to private corporations in the future. I say we have examples from the world. So I'm a little worried about this, and I'd like to know how it's gonna be secured so that the data can't get out of that cyberspace. I know this is a difficult task, because there are quite a lot of attacks. Another problem I see in the following things. After the launch of the electronic citizen's license, which is supposed to be in 2018, there will still be IDs without a chip, with a chip that we now normally have, and in that case, new electronic citizen's IDs. I've learned that those people who own an electronic ID issued for 500 crowns at this time are of no use to me, so they're going to trade it for free. However, if I, as a user, want and I don't have the ID of this new, with the chip, and I want to use the electronic ID, I'll come to the office and say I'd like to use this service, trade me the Ministry, virtually. The office of free old ID for the new one? I'm talking about the normally existing ID without a chip. I'm gonna have ten years in force, I'm gonna go in there, I'm gonna say I'm gonna change my ID sometime in 2018, new IDs are gonna start in mid-2018, and I'm gonna go in there and say, "You guys gave me a new ID 'cause my expiration date is up, and I'd like to use the electronic ID. Am I gonna have to pay for a new I.D., or am I gonna get a free pass? That's another alpha and omega I'm interested in. Now there's still so-called. the relationship between electronic civil certificates and electronic elections. I do not know how much citizens would take advantage of this service. There are some experiences from Estonia where the Big Brother is actually on a rather high level there, but I'm not really sure it would raise the vote. At this point, I'm not so sure. My colleague, a friend in some way, doktor Brunclík wrote the book Electronic Elections, the dead end of democracy, where they discuss these various examples of electronic elections. The electronic ID card, of course, has already been tangled into various laws, e.g. The drug protection law, where I was just saying that if anyone wants to know about me how much I bought online, there would have to be electronic IDs just to monitor it. Anyway, who cares what I buy? So it's also another problem that data, virtually, will be circulating about me as a citizen. will be collected in one central location, somewhere, I don't know where, I suppose, in Brno or at the Ministry of the Interior, I don't know at this time. And they can be used right now or abused. So that's another thing that really needs to be discussed. Of course, I will not be in favour of rejecting this law, nor of returning to work, nor of interrupting, anything, but I want to move forward so that, of course, we can discuss the digitalisation, the digitalisation of the state administration, and the introduction of new electronic civil documents. I would like to be able to use these services, precisely, and I would also very much like it if citizens could use it, because we will save them some time running around offices. This is where it comes true that the authorities will finally begin to circulate data, not citizens. This is also about the fact that hopefully everyone will unite there with various operating systems that are still not uniform. This is shown to us, for example. With the photo where they can't pass one picture within one office, let it be with the driver's licenses and the citizen's licenses in the relationship, but we'll deal with that in another law maybe next meeting. I'll point that out, too. However, I welcome, of course, the introduction of electronic civil certificates and the digitalisation of the entire state administration. That would probably be all for me to begin with, and when I think of something, I'm sure I'll apply to the debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u7	I thank Mr Jan Klán. Now, Mr Ivan Pilný in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I have already mentioned here at first reading the reasons why this law is useless. I'm going to try to repeat them briefly and add something to them so that I don't just repeat what I've said here before. The current situation is that chip IDs are issued for a fee and have no functionality. It also has a small fraction of citizens. The current state and public administration agendas allow entry in other ways. Only the Treasury Department on the tax agenda has three ways of identifying it. These are data boxes under penalty, tax returns under penalty in data boxes, VAT and EET control reports. Everything is completely different from the ID. The pension office also has other means of identification. The data boxes I mentioned here are very little used here, only 15 percent and only a third of the capacity when it comes to sent messages. They're the most expensive in Europe, costing us 500 miles. crowns a year. Surely they could be used for communication with the state and public administration. In the commercial sphere, there is no use of an ID with a chip, which also requires a reader, which is not present or new in any device and has to be purchased, so I can't imagine that Internet banking, which is secured in two ways, or existing contactless cards with a chip, which are used for payment, things that are used for voting, opening doors both at the car and at the house, could somehow project a new citizen with a chip. Now let's get to the schematic. After the I.D. exchange, only IDs with the chip will be issued. This, of course, does not apply to the 70+ citizens' group mentioned here, for example, that is me. We don't have to trade IDs at all. So, of course, these citizens, who are going to grow, do not have that obligation. The validity interval of the ID is ten years. That means we can assume that after about five years, about half of the people will have a chip ID. Activating the chip isn't mandatory, which means we're going to have to convince some of them for some reason, so far I don't think much of them actually activating the chip. So after five years, there will be an estimated 20 percent of people who will have ID with a chip with functionality that is currently unknown. Commercial use is virtually excluded because other organizations will not adapt their systems to the outdated technology that this citizen presents with a chip. Today, about half a billion people already have smartphones, where identification is secured in a completely different way, and with mobile phones we will have and we already have dozens of apps. Safe identification is provided there e.g. with a fingerprint. Unifying public and public administration systems will be very costly, if possible. Of course, those hundreds of millions of costs that accompany the introduction of the citizen will be added to the additional costs of allowing the citizen to operate in those systems. Other attempts to put in the chip, I'll mention them briefly, maybe it's a replacement for an electronic signature, but a little far-fetched because she needs the reader. To put medical data there - I can't imagine a doctor giving blood transfusions based on what someone has in their ID. That's probably not going to work out the same way as using medical reasons. The other data proposed there are simply already in the registers. We were talking here at the last 202020 session about the fact that the data is in the registers, and duplicateing them on any other media doesn't make any sense, because the government has them. We don't have to carry a driver's license, we have to have a driver's license, because that's what the law says. Because every cop has this information available on the register, that's what Colonel Lerch assures me of. So the introduction of such outdated technology really doesn't make sense. To argue with Estonsko, which chose this technology a few years ago and actually on a green meadow, doesn't make sense, because we're already somewhere else. Another reason that has come up is that the Ministry of the Interior is quite correct in preparing the law on electronic identity. The bill should be finished by the end of February. We have committed ourselves across the political spectrum to the 202020 Committee, where all the political parties are represented, that we will try to discuss this law urgently in the Chamber of Deputies, because it is really necessary. It is absurd to accept the Civil Card Act in an outdated way of identity requiring a reader and a card with a chip. In the event that the law is discussed in such a way that the citizen will find some application at all, then of course we can consider it. [[18.00 hours]] Of course, a citizen as such will still have some reason to exist because there are data on it for identification, biometric data and so on. They are there, and they will certainly be used in some way for many years, but these data do not need any chip. They don't need an ID with a chip, they're almost all there today. I have considered how to deal with this law because my proposals for recasting this law have been rejected, even the deadline has been shortened. Of course. The Chamber of Deputies can turn any law into politics, but I have tried to have only material comments here and find a way to solve this problem. The first thing I would like to do right now is make a motion to suspend this item pending the negotiation of the law and the adoption of the law on electronic identity. In the event that this proposal is not adopted by the House, then, of course, in a detailed debate, I must propose a proposal to reject this law, which will be voted on at third reading. I am filing a motion to interrupt this item until the adoption of the Electronic Identification Act by the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I see your proposal as a procedural one, which we will vote on immediately. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering the check-out request. I hereby remove you. We'll wait a little while longer until the voter numbers are settled. Initiating vote. Who is in favour of this motion to interrupt this point? Who opposes this proposal? The vote is serial number 154. 105 Members are registered, for 31, against 41. This proposal has not been adopted. We will continue the general debate. I note Mr Gabal's factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u10	Thank you. Dear Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to respond to the speaker through you. We have a brilliant ability to do something for two or three years, invest money in it, and then meet here and say, "Oh, my God, that's bullshit, and we're gonna stop it. There is a traditional institute in Czech society, which undergoes modernization, which we use and is applied in a number of operations. Just look at what biometric passports have done with European traffic, Schengen and so on. The fact that we're late or we're late is the result of other processes. We just need to speed it up, not stop it. We stopped it four years ago. If anyone's asking me how to accelerate it, just a little thing is enough. Let's put in an electronic election with an ID ID and get a lot of people to get it and get it activated. It's just nonsense to invest in something for three years and then stop it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u11	Thank you for keeping time. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u12	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, I wasn't at all questioning the IDs here. Biometric readings are inserted on those, and I made it clear that they made sense. What I questioned, and nothing was invested in it, at least if, for no reason, that's on the ID's chip. And as far as electronic elections are concerned, I agree, of course, there may be a debate here, but the danger is very real especially in the way in which social networks can now create some kind of mood just before the elections, and it's a little different from how anybody can identify themselves. I guess that's a whole different discussion. I didn't question the I.D. or the biometric data on it at all. It is, and it will be, and I've said that, in some way, used. I'm questioning the additional investment - 250 miles. Plus hundreds of millions more to go into antiquated technology.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u13	Thank you. One more point of fact, Mr Gabal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Through you to your colleague Pilný. You just have to be methodologically precise. From the cargo you must deduct the natural variation of IDs. If you're saying I'm gonna hold IDs, I've got some expenses with their exchange. And the fact that I'm gonna stick a chip in for a few crowns and another infrastructure, well, that's an upgrade. If I say yes, I.D.s will stay and we'll use them, so I have to technologically upgrade them on an ongoing basis. That's the only approach methodology. Everything else is wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u15	Thank you. Nobody's gonna react anymore. Anyone else interested in speaking in the general debate? He doesn't. I hereby conclude the general debate. I'm asking for any final words. Mr. Secretary? He's interested, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u16	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, I owe answers to some of the questions that have been asked here. That means the lifetime of a chip for ten years. I think that's what's gonna happen on the chip. In our opinion, the certificate will be there, and it will depend on the citizen, if he finishes with electronic identification, electronic signature, if there will be an identification in the future towards the bank, that is an option that is open from our point of view. Mr Pilný through the President. We do not think that these two laws, which he referred to, are in direct line, in direct connection. Nota bene law, which will come to the Chamber of Deputies, will not come until three or four months later. I have now verified the time when he will be on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies. Currently, it is within the legislative process of the Government's Legislative Council, so the gross estimate is at least three months. But we really don't think there's a direct connection. That's why I'm glad we didn't interrupt the point. Of course, we will still be voting on the rejection of this proposal. Personally, I think that's a step in the right direction, a step forward. Electronic ID will be protected by a PIN code. That means the citizen then decides on the security system to change this code himself within the scope of the option he gets. Reader - again we think that according to the guarantee of manufacturers life can be somewhere around ten years old. As far as the exchange is concerned, in the case of civil certificates where the lifetime is not over, if the citizen decides that even though the citizen is still paying him for three years, he wants a new one with a chip, it costs CZK 200. If it goes there at the time of the end of life, it is free of charge, as well as free of charge for people who receive an ID after reaching the appropriate age law, i.e. 15 years. Even there is a ID card with a chip after law enforcement free of charge. I don't know exactly if I said everything, but I hope I did. So for us, I'd like to ask that we release this law until the third reading. The amendments that are prepared, we agree with a large part of them, and we have participated in many of them together with some Members and possibly relevant committees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u17	Thank you, too. The rapporteur is interested. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u18	I would just say that three Members have spoken in the general debate and two factual points have been made by two Members. Mr Pilný made a motion for an interruption which he failed, and at the same time announced that he would propose a rejection in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u19	Thank you. Before I launch a detailed debate, allow me to read the apology of my colleague Gabriela Pecková, who apologizes on 17. 1. between 18 and 19 o'clock for work reasons. I am opening a detailed debate. I recall that the amendments and other proposals tabled in the detailed debate must always be justified. Mr Pilný has applied for the floor. Don't worry about him disappearing from the board, I accidentally squeezed him. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Squeeze is less a shame than rejecting a proposal. I am very sorry, but my arguments, which were purely in terms of common sense, have not been answered, and they have not been answered for several times, so I have no choice, and it is a pity, because I think that the law has its authority to discuss it, and only after that electronic identity, so I have no choice but to make a motion to reject this law, which will be voted on at third reading. I have already said the reasoning in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-17-ps2013-054-05-007-010.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your proposal has been registered, and as you say, it will be voted on at third reading. I do not see any factual comment or other application for a detailed debate, so I am ending the detailed debate. I ask, is the petitioner or rapporteur interested in the final word. It does not, so this concludes the second reading of this proposal and we can move on to the next point of the negotiations. The next item is the point
