ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u1	48. Government bill amending Act No. 182/2006 Coll., on bankruptcy and methods of its solution (Insolvency Act), as amended /German press 1030/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted shall be made by the Minister of Justice Robert Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u2	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, the proposal that we are proposing is perhaps one of the most important legislative changes in dealing with the situation or the situation of debtors at all recently. It's a proposal that tries to give a chance at a new life to those who have fallen into a debt trap. This means that they are in a situation where all their current and future income and all their assets are insufficient to pay the debts they have, and mostly they are not even enough to pay only the interest and other costs that the debts bear. That means, even though they are rubbing the misery of need, their debts are constantly increasing. As you know, for people who get caught in a debt trap, our right now offers a solution. The solution is called debt relief. It is a process in which they commit or should hand in their earnings for a maximum period of five years, provided that they can repay at least 30% of these debts in five years. That's how it was implemented. Soon after it was introduced, however, it turned out that putting that line there was a mistake. For two reasons. On the one hand, the border became de facto not the lower limit, but the de facto standard. This means both judges, insolvency administrators and various advisors, and ultimately those debtors have translated it so that they have to pay not less than 30 per cent but that they have to pay 30 per cent. So once someone was able to pay the 30%, no one cared if they could pay more. Well, that was one problem. The second problem was that the question whether or not the person would be able to repay the 30 percent did not really matter or mattered at all how much he had borrowed or how much debt he had made, but only when he came to those advisors who advised him that he could deal with the situation by debt relief. Because, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about these people, they are people who, when we look at them, often have debts of more than one million crowns. And they're people with a salary of 15 grand gross. You would lend a million crowns to a man like that? Of course not. And no one lent them a million crowns. Someone lent them 10, 20, maybe 50 grand a few times. What they borrowed is not what they owe. That takes a tenth of what he owes. Once you've fallen into a debt trap, your debts will begin to hop in a geometrical line. So any percentage is losing any sense. For this reason, and I won't be here long enough to tire out, because we believe that the Roman rule should continue to apply, that impossibilium nulla obligatio, that therefore the impossible does not bind anyone, and that if someone simply is unable to make money in their entire lives on their debts, it is pointless his whole life to maintain these debts to him. So for this reason, following the model of many countries, and let us name only the United States, Great Britain, or Germany, we want to remove the border. We want to say that we want to replace it with individual control. This means that, according to the degree of ability to pay back three, five or seven years, he will work and actually work the insolvency administrator, he will monitor his management, he will sell all his remaining assets. They force him to go looking for the best job possible, force him to learn how to manage. That's for the court to decide. And if the three, five or seven years, according to the rate of repayment, the man follows all the rules laid down by law and imposed by the insolvency administrator under the supervision of the judge, then at the end, no matter how much he can repay, the remainder of the debt will be erased. [[12.00 hours]] With that, ladies and gentlemen, it will give him a second chance, but it will really only be a second chance, because for the next ten years he will not be able to enter into anything like this. In other words, it will be able to do it once every 17 years, i.e. really twice, at most three times in its economic life. Ladies and gentlemen, more than half a million people are in such a situation that they will not reach out to the debt parameters today, and if we do not help them with what I am putting forward, they are doomed to live outside the official economy for the rest of their lives. I therefore believe that it is necessary to support this proposal and, given that the proposal is not technically difficult, although it is undoubtedly serious, I am also announcing that I will propose a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions to 40 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u3	I thank the Minister. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for first reading by Mr Jaroslav Borka. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u4	Hello. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the bankruptcy law and its solutions, i.e. the so-called insolvency law. Over the years, the number of multiple executions has steadily increased, as the Minister has said here, which are currently being directed against more than 75 percent of all debtors. Many of these debtors find themselves in the so-called debt traps, as has also been said here, and when its claims became unfulfilled, as their total amount, including accessories, is growing faster than the debtors they are or were able to satisfy from their property and their income. Approximately 2 per cent of the debtors that are subject to enforcement are able to provide the creditors on a monthly basis with a deposit amount. Approximately 7 per cent of the borrowers will achieve the termination of the execution conducted against them. And more than 90 percent of those in debt in execution, it's about 655,000, it's in the trap. From this point of view, the bill could be a solution. However, there are some places that will certainly be the subject of discussion. I believe that the proposal has not sufficiently analysed the effects of the proposal on creditors, i.e. in particular to financial institutions, banking, then construction housing cooperatives, owners' communities and others. In contrast to the current adjustment, the creditor will receive virtually no remuneration for the debt relief of nearly 100 percent. Also, considering the adequacy of the claims only in insolvency proceedings outside the synergies linked to the system of law could cause a significant discrepancy between debtors who properly and timely fulfil the claims and debtors who knowingly or unconsciously appeal for debt relief, but who cannot and do not want to pay back. There is yet another serious fact that the proposal in its focus creates space for the phenomenon rather undesirable, which is therefore the automatization of de-debtion. I believe that the law, if it passes through the first reading and is given for discussion on committees, can remove or change some things. Thus, the government bill brings solutions in variants that, according to the petitioner, could lead to problems of insolvency of indebted persons. Let me also point out that the proposal has been delivered to you as House Press 1030/0 on 8 February 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Vice-President Vojtěch Filip entered first and foremost. Then Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u6	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, Mrs and gentlemen, I will be economical in my statement, because the proposal, as it is presented, does not include the solution which I assumed would include the insolvency law and its amendment. I suppose we'll get to that at second reading, or at committee meetings. This is so that the debtor is not completely deprived of his procedural rights. This is ensured by Sections 244 to 243, one sentence, but in Section 245 it is limited to the extent that the insolvency administrator assumes all the powers and the courts usually judge that the debtor does not have any rights with regard to a proposal which, for example, would speed up the sale of his own property and thus ensure greater resources to the property from which it should be carried out. In this respect, I consider the standard to be incomplete or underestimating the role of the debtor, because the debtor is essentially led here as the one who is the only one who prevents payment of his debt and must enter the insolvency administrator in order to replace his will to do so. Life is a little more complicated than that. I will give one particular example, which illustrates how insolvency can be dealt with more quickly, but also the solutions that are between creditors and debtors themselves. In the case of divorce, there is usually a dispute between ex-husbands, and there may be a dispute over a property that may serve to satisfy creditors on the property of the debtor who is one of the spouses. If the other spouse is able to block such a solution, whether after three years there will be a legal change in ownership from the joint property of the spouses to the joint ownership, then we still have a possible settlement. And a lawsuit can go a long way, and if there is no will or possibility as the debtor could, I would say, actively participate in securing the property, so in a way we put it into the role of a convicted person, just waiting for the insolvency administrator to handle it. The problem is that there may be a conflict of interest between the debtor and the insolvency administrator, which is mostly very difficult to prove, and in that case it is necessary that we strengthen the procedural role of the debtor and not deprive him of the very active legitimacy in the dispute, even though, of course, we risk that his proposals, if they were to reduce assets, would have to be rejected. There's a way to deal with that. I think there is also quite a positive proposal, which would do § 265 para. 2 insolvency law, that means 182/2006 Coll., could be discussed and provided in committee. [[12.10 hours]] I believe that there is a piece of work ahead of us in this regard, which we must do, and I do not think that we should postpone this until after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u7	I thank the Vice-President. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Martin Plíšek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u8	Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I regret to say that at the outset I wish to comment on the legislative activity or rather the inactivity of the Ministry of Justice in relation to this proposal. We were here a few weeks ago discussing an amendment to the insolvency law, which had a lot of noble goals, combating bankruptcy mafias, combating unauthorized and bullying filings, specifying the jurisdiction of courts, insolvency administrators, etc. etc. The debate was very detailed here, and we see here that a few months later, practically at the end of the term, the Ministry of Justice and the government will send us another amendment to the insolvency law. I think that the public and citizens, when they see how many amendments to one of these laws we have passed here in a number of weeks and months, must be very uncertain, plus after the later amendment has modified something different from the previous one. I would rather expect, given that we have, for example, obsolete procedural rules, that the Minister of Justice will fulfil the task that is in the Government's programming declaration and will present us with new procedural rules, the new Civil Procedure Code and the new Criminal Code, that he will present a law on free legal aid in a timely manner and that his party colleague, Mrs Válková, will not have to load this amendment at the last moment into our parliamentary amendment to the Law on Advocates, that he will present in time and in advance a law on experts and the Act on interpreters, which is a regulation that is 50 years old here, which undoubtedly deserves a new regulation, but not at the end of the parliamentary term. I'm just reminding you that I presented my own novel on this matter last year. I just want to say that, unfortunately, we are discussing often unnecessary snippets here, and in the case of this House press, I believe that if they were approved, they would do more harm than good. In my opinion, this proposed amendment is a moral hazard, which says that debts do not have to be paid and that contracts do not have to be respected. This amendment continues the trend of trampling creditors' rights. I would even say that, from my point of view, there is a violation of the constitutional right to protect the ownership of creditors and, at the same time, in the argument I will be able to get the costs and difficulties of the position not only to creditors but also to the state in terms of other expenditures from the state budget, which are not covered by this amendment, respectively. are not covered by the debate with the Ministry of Finance. I will conclude with the general court. Then I will get to the individual comments, but this summary is that, unfortunately, the amendment will allow for debt relief to persons who are practically destitute, which will be sufficient only to try to satisfy creditors. Creditors will not be able to influence the repayment of their claims in any way. From my point of view, debt relief should be an exception to compliance with precise and strict rules, and the proposed amendment abandons this principle and makes it possible to issue a general pardon without greater difficulty. As I mentioned, the intervention into the property rights of creditors is quite obvious there. The amendment argues that its aim is to de-debt persons who cannot be de-debted at the moment because they do not meet the legal criteria for debt relief, in particular they are not able to meet the obligation to pay the creditors 30 per cent of their liabilities within five years. I do not agree that this participation in one option of debt relief, 30 per cent, should be dismissed from the law. This is really the way to hell, which not only tells current, but also potential debtors: Well, it will somehow turn out, the deadline will run out, you don't have to pay back anything and you will be indebted. I think that this is very bad and that the state is not setting a good example. The amendment wants to bring 655,000 people into the debt system. As I have already mentioned, completely uncertain creditors and very likely will lead to massive abuse of the debt institution. In its report on the effects of regulation, the Ministry of Justice admits that only 2% of the debtors in execution are capable of achieving the minimum necessary satisfaction within five years of 30 per cent of the average amount of debt in debt. There are currently 103,000 people in debt, 1.2% of the adult population. They will pay the insolvency administrators and the remuneration and reimbursement of the final expenses 1.1 billion. CZK a year. Minister Pelikán said at the seminar on 23 September in the Chamber of Deputies that he could imagine an even higher reward for insolvency administrators. Only a few big players on the market share this amount. The Ministry has admitted that almost two thirds of new items are currently being allocated to three groups of insolvency administrators in particular. And now I come to the cost of the state, because - as I have already mentioned - it is not just a negative impact on creditors, but on the state and on the state budget, and I think that should interest Members across the political spectrum. The average cost of administration and management of one debt is around CZK 9248. The total cost of dedebting the existing 103,000 people in debt is more than 950 million. Kč. In the event of the adoption of the amendment, the Ministry of Justice estimates that the number of new debt reliefs could reach 39,000 in 2020. new things a year when we see 26,000 in 2016. I'm just pointing out this number. He therefore plans to increase the ideas of these cases by up to 50 per cent per year. I'm just asking what results, because that's what I was talking about at the beginning of my performance. The total cost of the State to dedebt the target group of the law, i.e. all people in debt traps, would be at least 9 billion. Kč. So not only will the cost of the state increase, but at the same time the state will take over the guarantee for another 49,5 billion. CZK on the remuneration of insolvency administrators. Every economically active citizen of the Czech Republic thus gives a guarantee of CZK 9900 to insolvency administrators from its taxes. As I mentioned earlier, the Ministry of Finance refused to raise his chapter to the Ministry of Justice for the required expenses. Minister Pelikán thus obliges the future government to spend what he does not have at all within his current budget and within the budgetary perspective. Although the Ministry of Justice abandoned the idea of a legal protective limit for the monetization of the debtor's homes in the form of a thousand times the normative cost of rental housing for one person under the State Social Support Act, in practice, the insolvency administrator could not confiscate and sell an apartment that costs less than CZK 7 million. [[12.20 hours]] It now suggests that these multiples will not be mentioned in the law, but in the decree, which is also a question of whether, in the implementing legislation, these financial data and these impacts can be made, if this should not actually be laid down in the law. But I'm a little bit questioning whether it's appropriate in this case. One motive for introducing 0 percent of the debt threshold is assistance in excluded localities. Unfortunately, such debt relief for individuals living in excluded localities cannot be regarded as a relevant instrument, since those illegal or, if we want, black lending providers do not play for any debt relief, there is indeed another way. I just want to say here that we recently adopted e.g. Consumer Credit Act, which should lead to greater responsibility for those who, for example, take. They want to take out a loan. But here I just want to say that the solution is not to introduce some new categories into insolvency law, but to address the issue within the framework of consumer credit, an addressable social system, early enforcement of the law, the fight against, say, a grey, illegal economy, and not to bring this solution within the framework of the insolvency law. It is therefore a complex of a number of problems, undoubtedly a measure in relation to the financial literacy of the population. And I wonder why such an important law, for example. The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, the Minister of Finance, as I spoke earlier, is not present from the point of view of the impact on the state budget. I just want to say that the issue of debt or debt trap, or the inability to pay off its liabilities, is certainly not just a resort of justice, even though there is a law here that wants to solve the whole mix of problems, which is for the worse and will not bring a positive effect. What is important is that the Supreme Court of the Czech Republic and the Presidents of the Regional Courts of the Czech Republic disagreed with the amendment, saying: We understand that the government has a political purpose, but it goes beyond the possibilities of the courts. Those files just won't be dealt with and they won't be able to solve them at the courts and, as the judges say, even put them where. Here we see again a new trend, which is common in this government, increasing the burden on various entities, whether citizens, entrepreneurs, companies, in this case courts. However, if a dysfunctional administrative and personnel-intensive system is introduced, as well as from the point of view of the fact that judicial authority is of course independent and independent, we will not achieve the targeted effects imposed by this law. From my point of view, this is a sort of pre-election political lure by socialists, that is, social democracy in conjunction with Minister Pelikán, because it is really about supporting one population against another, that is, supporting debtors, but from my point of view, it is not about supporting debtors, because they will not get out of their debt traps and their problems under this law. On the contrary, enforcement firms, illegal means after the deadlines have passed, will have far greater opportunities to intervene against them, and I do not understand at all that this socialist proposal has come here. But it's not just the views of the Supreme Court and the Regional Courts. Neither the Chamber of Commerce nor the Confederation of Industry nor even other economic and economic operators agree with the amendment. In the RIA report, the Ministry of Justice refused to examine the impact analysis of the zero limit for debt repayment on municipalities in the Czech Republic, even though people owe more than 1 billion on rents in the four largest cities of the Czech Republic. Crowns. So here we have the dissenting position of the Supreme Court, the Regional Courts, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Chamber of Commerce and the Union of Towns and Municipalities. All I'm saying is that they are relatively strong and representative subjects, and only you, dear colleagues and colleagues, I want to refer to these opinions and we should not ignore them, we should take them seriously. The way in which this amendment was discussed in the Legislative Council of the Government, that is a separate chapter. I remember a time when without discussing fundamental laws and fundamental amendments to the Government's Legislative Council, the bill could not go to the government for approval. Here we see that an exception has been granted to the Government Legislative Council. Two ministers gathered, Minister Pelikán, Minister Chvojka; Minister Pelikán has probably told him - well, I do not know how this amendment would have come to that plenary, so let us not hold back and please give the opinion of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government. The Minister, the President of the Legislative Council of the Government, has complied with and we have here the opinion of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government. However, the opinion of the Prime Minister Chvojka's President of the Legislative Council also states that there is a complete lack of assessment of the effects of regulation on creditors. This is what I mentioned here in the previous speech that the negative impact on creditors is here, especially on systemic creditors and so-called. Involuntary creditors, that is to say, banks, financial institutions, insurance companies and other loan providers. This means the RIA is incomplete and there is no impact on the entities concerned when the law significantly affects the rights of those entities concerned. It is clear that the debt relief process is already being overused or even abused in the Czech Republic, and the proposed amendment will deepen this trend even further. In the Czech Republic, debt relief is approved annually for 2.2 and multiple persons than in Germany or Austria. It is not possible to look for explanations in the social differences in those countries for this discrepancy, for example. compared to those countries, the Czech Republic - the threat here is around 10% - is even better than Austria or Germany, where it is about 15 percent. So even in comparison with those foreign countries, as we are told here, where they are going everywhere, we also have to build on the socio-economic situation in that country, and we also have to build on how the judicial system works, how the social system works, and so on. It is not possible to take these things out of context, and I really lack the approach and procedure of other ministries and other authorities. Internet advertising attracting citizens of Slovakia to debt relief in the Czech Republic suggests that the existing system in the Czech Republic is already significantly benevolent and probably interesting for foreigners from neighbouring countries. Last but not least, the issue of dedebting natural persons, especially entrepreneurs, is the subject of talks at European Union level. The meetings are attended by Minister Pelikán or his representatives to negotiate. In the foreseeable future, it is possible to expect a proposal for a directive which can regulate this area in a completely different way. And here we are again about how legislation is formed in the Czech Republic. We recently approved an amendment to the insolvency law, which pretended to have been about something other than debt relief, now this amendment is being adopted, and in the future we may be waiting for another amendment after a European Union regulation. That means the novel is changing the novel, and I only care about the solution after the steps, after that, to please certain groups. [[12.30 hours]] So the extension of the possibilities to increase the number of cases where a creditor would be damaged is unacceptable to me, as well as leaving the 30 percent limit. To sum up, this amendment, which I would call a socialist experiment, is a real moral hazard that attacks not only the rights of creditors but also the state budget, the municipalities and, as a result, damages creditors and does not help debtors who are in a permanent debt trap. As a result, it won't help them anyway. Of course, the fact that there may also be a constitutional problem in terms of intervention in the property and rights of creditors is also a serious point. And the fact that the amendment is attacking the principle that debts are to be fulfilled and paid and that contracts are to be respected is quite clear. Therefore, it will not be surprising after the dozens of comments that I have mentioned here that I propose that the Chamber of Deputies reject this proposal at first reading. If this proposal fails, I am filing a motion to return this law to the petitioner for revision. If this proposal fails, I am making a proposal to extend this amendment by 30 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u9	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Pavel Blažek. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u10	Hello, thank you for your word. I don't know where to start. So maybe I'll start by reminding my own words about two years ago, when I warned this House about the constant strengthening of the debtor's position at the expense of creditors, he doesn't know how far we can go after those two years. This bill, which can be described as an excellent political pre-election marketing, when the media will basically inform that the government - but here the other government parties are terribly wrong to get something out of it, I will say YES - is interested in the most necessary and presents various proposals that will help them greatly in their difficult social situation. I don't underestimate marketing because these things affect voters. Just to remind you - the brilliant marketing move of Andrej Babiš was EET. Not because it has an effect on paying taxes, it won't be that big. However, in our country there are groups of populations that hate the word businessman for various reasons, and for many years these groups have been voting for, for example, the Communist Party, or part of the socde, hoping that somebody will mess with those entrepreneurs. And now they've learned in a nutshell that whoever's turning them is Andrej Babiš. And, hey, it worked. I mean marketing now. I'll always be surprised by the other parties in the coalition that they were shining at this. Because it was clear from the start that it wouldn't bring them any points. And the YES movement with this really brilliant marketing, I have to bow down again, taking the classic left-wing parties, or Mr. Andrej Babiš would say to the traditional, like KSČM and ČSSD, voters based on their own votes. Well, there's no better way to do that. And here we are in the same way. The YES movement knows very well that the debtors, they certainly know the exact numbers, they were hundreds of thousands, maybe millions. And these people, when they learn - they won't study the law in detail, but they'll have headlines in different newspapers - watch out, debt is coming, you don't have to pay your debts. They won't go further into the details. It'll spread between them. They will feel the possibility that payment morale, which many no longer have, can fall even further. They'll know it doesn't actually cost them anything. And maybe they'll know exactly who to vote for in this election. Once again, if the CSSD thinks it's gonna make a profit on this, it's not gonna make a damn thing. The votes will be given to the YES movement, because personalised, this bill will, of course, be very cleverly directed towards the YES movement. And I say, I can actually admire that because this political marketing is on an unprecedented level and it's very well done. I congratulate the ČSSD that they are involved in this and are constantly moving their electoral base towards the ANO movement. But there's nothing you can do about it. Basically - and now I will be ironic to myself - a part of the electorate has, of course, gone from us to the YES movement, and now, thanks to working in this government, it is still taking your constituents and you are voting with it on these proposals. But that's life, and all I can do is accept it. As far as this law is concerned, I would really just like to draw the Minister's attention, and now I will not go completely into detail, the psychological effect of this proposal and how the media will inform about it. They'll inform us that he's going to be in debt. That'll be the media shortcut. Indeed, there can be no good effect on payment and those who can pay back. Of course, when they feel the possibility, even those who are ready to fulfill their obligations at the moment, they will ask themselves - why should we do it when others may not, and they will start thinking about variations they haven't realized so far, and they will, of course, try to use them. I myself have received many and many comments on the draft of this law and I think it is right for me to introduce these comments to the House. There's a lot of comments. So I'm even gonna be so nice to the Minister that I'm just gonna do a selection of these comments, I'm not gonna read them all because there's a lot of them. The main objective of the amendment is the so-called reform of personal bankruptcy, or we want to address the situation of people, repeat debtors who have been in execution proceedings for many years and are unable to get out of the debt trap in any way. Thus, the objective declared is to give debtors a legal "second chance" and to bring economically excluded persons back into legal active economic life. However, the proposal does not address the situation of such a part of the borrowers, but comes with a so-called solution, which is flat. Therefore, it concerns all people in the execution proceedings, even those who manage to pay their debts, and it has a refractory character, since the proposal specifically aims to ensure that the debtor's ability to pay his debts is no longer examined when deciding on the debt waiver, but only his ability to pay the costs of the proceedings, namely the remuneration of CZK 1 089 per month to the insolvency administrator. It is proposed here that even with zero repayment of debts, a complete debt relief can be achieved. Really, the adoption of the proposal would mean that the debtor will be exempted after three years if he pays at least 50 per cent of the claims applied for, after five years, if he pays at least 30 per cent of the claims claimed - this practice applies today - or, worst of all, after seven years he will be fully indebted, regardless of the amount of the claims paid. Even if he doesn't pay anything out of his debts. The proposal can be assessed de facto as expropriating the assets of creditors. To the creditors of the proposal, there would be considerable damage in the estimate, perhaps I can say tens of billions of crowns. Moreover, its widespread commitment to all cases of outstanding debts will be open to an incentive to further future impunity in debt. The proposal was prepared unstandardly, but this has already been discussed by Mr Plíšek, I do not want to repeat. I think it would be right to first process an economic analysis that properly quantifys the extent of the debt-debted persons' liabilities, define and quantify the number of debtors with multiple executions who are interested in resolving their bankruptcy, clearly describe and quantify the obstacles to entry into debt relief under the current conditions, and then subsequently process any amendment to the insolvency law that would provide solutions for people in debt traps to maximize benefits for the state and minimise other costs for creditors. [[12.40 hours]] The proposed possibility of de-debting, albeit in a longer duration over seven years, instead of a normal five years, even in a variant without any satisfaction of the claims of unsecured creditors, today min. 30 per cent, only subject to payment of the remuneration and costs of the insolvency administrator, is a disproportionate interference with the rights of creditors, in particular the constitutionally guaranteed right to own property. It should be pointed out that by far not every creditor is an accomplice in the creation of his claims. Many creditors acted completely responsible and became victims of the irresponsibleness of others. And some even could not influence the creation and amount of their claims at all. For example, a community of owners of units, damage to claims for damages and the like. [[unintelligible]] The adjustment would significantly facilitate speculative abuse of debt relief. Already some debtors before filing an insolvency proposal "optimize" it is such a modern used word, so I say in quotation marks, so that it does not become a completely normal word, their liabilities by increasing debt, so that they do not unnecessarily pay off significantly more than the mandatory 30 percent of their liabilities. Removing the threshold of minimum satisfaction of unsecured creditors would allow for similar action to a much greater extent and, in fact, motivated certain groups of debtors to be completely irresponsiblely indebted. In the same way, a debtor who works in the public domain in black or abroad and is registered at the Labour Office is obliged to pay at least 30% of the claims applied for under the current legislation. According to the proposal, that kind of pressure would disappear completely. Therefore, the proposed legislation does not increase the debtor's incentive to return to the legal employment system, but rather increases the incentive to remain outside it, as the difference between the means that the debtor spends to obtain debt in the event of entry into the legal employment system is increased, compared to the means it spends to obtain debt in remaining outside it. The proposal sets the maximum limit for the sum of the claims to which the debtor must always pay at least 30 per cent of the claims. A fixed maximum amount of unsecured creditors' claims, a thousand times the existent minimum, or 2.2 million. The crown, however, is disproportionately high. It is not normal to have unsecured liabilities at an amount that is more typical of unsecured loans of the type of mortgages. Government in the so-called Moreover, RIA states that the average amount of unsecured claims is around 400 to 800 thousand. Crowns. If the debtor has accumulated such a sum of unsecured claims, it is usually already a debtor extraordinarily irresponsible or even a debtor with even fraudulent intentions. The possibility of de-debting by fulfilling the repayment schedule if, within three years of the approval of the repayment waiver to unsecured creditors, at least 50 per cent of their claims is an additional intervention in creditors' rights. A credit debtor able to repay more than 50 per cent of claims in three years would be able to pay at least 83 per cent of claims within five years of the current legislation. The adjustment would not lead to greater satisfaction of creditors, as is sometimes said about the bill, but rather to a lower one. This change is supposed to be directed towards a higher incentive for the debtor to pursue a profitable activity. The motivation of the debtor should be ensured, in addition to its own interest in the orderly course of the debt relief, by the supervision and action of the insolvency administrator rather than by excessive exemption from the payment of debts. A responsible debtor who is honestly seeking to pay his debts maximizes his income by accepting a second job by starting a secondary business long before the insolvency proceedings begin. It is therefore difficult to assume that additional motivation could lead to any increase in its revenue. Exorcising dwellings from monetization would create a fundamental inequality between debtors. The position of the debtor, who lives in his own property and does not have to pay rent, is much better than the position of the debtor, who is to pay not only his basic life needs but also his rent from the confiscated amount for the period of debt. The debtor who actively tried to satisfy his creditors by selling his dwelling prior to the opening of insolvency proceedings is thus at a disadvantage against the debtor who ignored the problems and kept his residence. At the same time, such an adjustment significantly reduces the possibility of satisfying unsecured creditors. Moreover, the price threshold from which the debtor must issue his dwelling for the purpose of monetization should not be laid down by law but by an implementing regulation. This is contrary to the constitutional principle that intervention into the property of citizens, both creditors who are deprived of satisfaction and debtors who are forced to issue, should be determined by law. It is inappropriate for such a crucial border to be determined only by an implementing regulation without debate in the Chamber of Deputies. All the more so, in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure, the proposed disproportionately high limits were subject to harsh criticism. It would be absurd, therefore, that the law establishing this boundary by the law of the Ministry, which proposed this absurdly high limit. [[unintelligible]] The Working Party on the Amendment to the Insolvency Act, which was established at the Ministry of Justice, did not recommend the main thesis of the amendment, referring to the fact that any economic analysis is not known which would justify the need for proposed changes, in particular massive debt relief. If we came out of the number of persons in execution, it would be about 260 billion. Czech crowns. On the contrary, this group proposed not to introduce flat-rate solutions in the future, i.e. not to change the current situation, just to address so-called. the required debtors by individual means. If the State wants to address overdebted persons who are unable to reach the current conditions of debt relief, i.e. proof that the debtor is able to pay the min. 30 per cent of the claims claimed appear to be much better for the State itself and for creditors as well as more cost-effective to define the required debtors on the basis of the specified parameters and to purchase these receivables from the creditors at a specified price. If the State's obligation to pay to creditors 20 per cent of the amount declared, the State would pay a total of 52 billion. CZK, even if this option is allowed for all debtors. When paying the costs to the proposed amendment to insolvency administrators, i.e. CZK 1089 a month and CZK 12 times seven years the debtor is obliged to pay a monthly fee of CZK 1089 a month to the insolvency administrator even if it is not obliged to pay for seven years or CZK 1089 a month, otherwise it will not be indebted. And the declared claims by all debtors will be paid to insolvency administrators about 59 billion. Crowns. [[unintelligible]] It follows from this simple example that if the debtor paid the State corresponding to the costs incurred by the insolvency administrator, the State would collect 59 billion. CZK and thus earned seven billion crowns, even before any debtor paid anything extra. If the State itself wants to benefit from debt relief by reducing the cost of social benefits to debtors and, at the same time, collecting higher taxes and levies, it would be grossly immoral if it wanted to achieve this result purely at the expense of creditors. On the contrary, it would be fair for the State to bear a substantial part of the debt costs from which it wants to benefit itself. Another option of addressing overdebted persons is to maintain the current 30 per cent threshold and the five-year write-off period and to take into account the increased benefits of the State for debt relief by active involvement of the State in the form of an exceptional social benefit for the debtor. This option may be more suitable for the state by about 100 billion. Kroner than the supposed novel. An exceptional social benefit would offset the difference between the satisfaction of unsecured creditors achieved and the minimum performance threshold of 30%. The social problem, according to some opinions, would be solved within the social system. In doing so, it can be expected that the social benefit granted will be significantly lower than the cost of an employed person with a final benefit for the State of 100 billion. Crowns. So the aim is to process economic analysis first, or so it should be, and then to submit some amendments to the laws. Ladies and gentlemen, I have read some comments here. It is not exactly that I identify with everything, but it is good that all these comments become the basis for our discussion of this law. The motion to reject and possibly return the appellant has already been made, I only join him in this form and thank you for your attention so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u11	I thank Mr Pavel Blažek. The next speaker in the debate is Mr Klaška, who is ready, expected a speech. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, good afternoon. Let me also comment on the amendment to the insolvency law. In fact, we are dealing with the problem of debtors and creditors here, this whole term is being addressed, and at least two laws fall within it. Firstly, it was a law that had already passed the House, about consumer and mortgage credit, and now the insolvency law. Maybe there's a way in which executions are still taking place. In the consumer and mortgage credit law, which has been prepared for a long time, we have dealt in particular with the creditor's, predatory practices of various creditors, and I think that relatively harsh legislative regulation or some restriction, regulation has achieved that all creditors must act responsibly, that they will be licensed by the Czech National Bank, that so-called illegals will be supervised and that these predatory practices will no longer be possible. An arbitration clause was even banned. So much for the creditor side. But it is always the relationship between the creditor and the debtor, and it is necessary to solve the same thing on the debtor's side, so that they also consider their options and are somehow responsible and able to repay their commitments. They can't care what happens either. The draft amendment to the insolvency law was prepared by the Ministry of Justice and, unfortunately, it did not go through a proper consultation on the Government's Legislative Council. The Government only voted on it on the basis of the opinion of the President of the Legislative Council of the Government. The main objective is the reform of so-called personal bankruptcy, or the aim is to address the situation of people overdebted, repeated debtors who have been in execution proceedings for many years and are unable to get out of the debt trap in any way. Thus, the declared objective is to give debtors a legal second chance and to return economically excluded persons to legal active economic life. However, the proposal does not address the situation of the declared part of the borrowers, but comes with a general solution that concerns all people in execution proceedings, including those who manage to pay their debts, and also has a retroactive character. The proposal aims to ensure that the debtor's ability to pay his debts is no longer examined when deciding on the debt, but only his ability to pay the costs of the proceedings, namely the remuneration of CZK 1 089 per month for the expenses of the insolvency administrator. It is proposed here that even with zero repayment of debts, a complete debt relief can be achieved. This can certainly be imagined, but in cases of extraordinary, in cases of some kind of personal tragedy, where it cannot really be objectively after the debtor, when he did not cause the situation, he got into it not by his own fault, it can happen, in which case it can be dealt with as an extraordinary matter. The question is, however, what about all the other debtors, because both sides must be aware of some sort of responsibility. It's a relationship between them. The creditor must be convinced that his debtor is able to properly repay even with the potential risk of some unpredictable moments or situations in life, as well as the debtor has to approach this not with the fact that he no longer has an interest in repaying the debt at the beginning, but is to be allowed to borrow the debt properly. Debts are meant to be paid. That is why we would like the law to continue through the legislative process so that it can be properly communicated. We look forward to its possible continuation, and we would very much like to discuss the whole system, the whole mechanism, especially some economic analysis, some impact that the adjustment will cause, because colleagues here have argued in various ways billions, maybe tens of billions, which are in the game and we do not know exactly what the overall impact will be on both the state budget and the debtors and the whole system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u13	Thank you, Mr Klašek. Mrs Jana Černochová has now signed up for the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. On all the arguments against this bill, I also consider the comments of the Union of Cities and Municipalities of the Czech Republic, which have not yet been mentioned that there have been any. And know that there have been many. Cities and municipalities of the Czech Republic and their established or established legal entities, in particular transport companies, or housing fund managers, are among the important group of creditors, with a number of claims being made to municipalities for the provision of public services. For example, waste management and so on. Contrary to, for example, consumer credit providers often become creditors involuntarily. For the above reason, it is not possible to agree with the final report drawn up on the assessment of the impact of RIA regulation, which was part of this proposal, where it is stated that the draft law does not have an impact on local authorities in total. Colleagues and colleagues, that's a lie.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u15	I will interrupt you, Madame, and ask the House for peace. If you are discussing a subject other than the government bill on insolvency, please in the foyer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. So the impact on the local authorities is undoubtedly here. For this reason, the Union of Towns and Municipalities requires this part of the RIA to be redesigned and supplemented together with the impact that the amendment will have on the public budgets of municipalities and their established or established legal entities. This comment is considered essential by the Union of Towns and Municipalities. The petitioner also does not provide any more detailed statistical data, such as the number of proposals for debt relief, approved debt relief proposals, and so on for each year, say in the last five or six years. The number of persons currently in debt relief and the percentage success rate of dedebtion shall also not be reported. The average duration of the entire debt relief process by the courts shall not be reported. The State's management, decision-making and supervision costs for debt relief are not reported. The costs of the State for unsuccessful proceedings, which, for example, will end in bankruptcy, which is subsequently abolished due to a lack of assets under Decree 313/2007 Coll., on the remuneration of the insolvency administrator, the remuneration and the final expenses shall be borne by the State in the event that the insolvency administrator cannot satisfy itself on the substance of the property or advance on the proceedings. The Union of Towns and Municipalities requires more detailed analysis and addition of data in order to assess the effects of the measures implemented. This comment is essential for the Union of Towns and Municipalities. Nor is it clear what impact the proposal will have on the remuneration and reimbursement of the final expenses of insolvency administrators, as they can be expected to increase in connection with the increase in the number of debtors or the extension of the deadline to seven years and thus significantly increase revenues. [[13.00 hours]] The Union calls for an analysis in this regard to be supplemented and also this comment is binding on the Union of Towns and Municipalities. The proposal states that it is inspired by foreign insolvency proceedings systems, especially in Germany, where there is no limit for repayment of the debt obligation and in Austria, where a limit of 10% is set. In Germany it was six years, in Austria it was seven years. The petitioner of the proposed legislative change advocates the good functioning of a similar system in neighbouring Germany. However, there is an average per capita of 0.00103 % in the benevolently set conditions of 80 347 approved debt relief in 2015, but according to the calculations of the petitioner in the Czech Republic it will be up to 38 thousand in 2020. And the average per capita is 0.00361 percent, which the agile mathematicians calculated is 3.5 times that. The system thus taken over will bring an enormous number of people into debt in the Czech Republic, which has no equivalent in Germany or in other neighbouring countries, in the one mentioned by Austria as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u17	Madame, I will interrupt you for a moment, I will ask you for your opinion, if you continue to finish your speech, because otherwise we would have to interrupt the meeting point and agree later on the implementation, because we have Thursday and we will continue with oral interpelations at 14.30 hours under the Rules of Procedure Act, so I would like to know if we can finish the debate or not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u18	Yes, Mr Vice-President, we can end it because I think that colleagues and colleagues deserve to be properly refreshed and regenerated before a discipline called interpelation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u19	In that case, I am interrupting this point in the general debate during the unfinished speech by Mrs Jana Černochová, who will be the first to speak in the event of the continuation of this point. I wish you a good taste and meet you at 2:30 p.m. at the oral p.m.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-27-ps2013-056-09-004-048.u20	Good afternoon, esteemed colleagues. Before I start another point, I'm gonna use my time to read my apologies. The Chamber of Deputies held on 27. Mr Martin Sedlář, Minister Karla Šlechtová apologizes for reasons of work from 14.30 today, Mr Milan Šarapatka apologises from 14.30 to the end of the negotiations for reasons of work, Mr Robin Böhnisch apologises for reasons of work for reasons of work today, Mr Marie Benešová apologises from 14.00 to the end of the working day for reasons of work, Mr Martin Komárek apologises from 14.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons, and Mr Pavel Volčík apologises from 15.30 to the end of the working day for reasons of work. The next item is
