ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u1	34. Government bill on the conditions for the use of genetic resources according to the Nagoya Protocol / House print 847/ - first reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. Minister, take the floor. And I'm gonna ask for some peace in the O.R.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u2	I would not be so optimistic, Mr President. But okay. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I'll be very brief. We are submitting to the Chamber of Deputies a draft law on the conditions for the use of genetic resources under the so-called nagojský Protocol. Reasons for submission. First of all, the bill was drafted to ensure the adaptation of the legal order of the Czech Republic to the directly applicable legislation of the European Union, which concerns international rules on access to and use of genetic resources. In particular, it concerns Regulation 511/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council and the Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council. So it is really conceived as a purely adaptation law, and this also corresponds to its relatively limited content, namely in form, not in content. The draft law specifies the way in which the domestic holders of genetic resources collections and users of genetic resources are to fulfil their obligations in relation to the inclusion of the collection in the European Union register, or the use of genetic resources, impose regulations, and also lays down the competences of both the Ministry of the Environment and the Czech Environmental Inspection in respect of compliance with the conditions for the use of genetic resources, access to them and sharing the benefits arising from their use. The aim is, therefore, to regulate the use of genetic resources and access to them as a whole, with the aim of contributing to the protection and conservation of these resources so-called in situ, i.e. where they occur, and the benefits that their users derive from the use of genetic resources, can then be shared fairly and equally with local communities which play a key role in the protection and use of genetic resources. I guess that's it. I'm going to ask you to release this bill until further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u3	I thank you, Minister, and I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading by Mr Michal Kučera. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u4	Hello, thank you for your word. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Brabec has already explained quite in detail what this amendment is about. Maybe I'll just say a few words about what's really going on with the Nagoya Protocol, because under that name, I don't think many can imagine exactly what's hidden. So, what exactly does the nagojský Protocol have to do with it? The definition of genetic resources is based on terminology adopted already within the framework of the Convention on Biological Diversity. It is any material of plant, animal or microbial origin that contains functional units of inheritance and is relevant to humans in terms of further use. The nagojský Protocol also extends its scope to so-called genetic resource derivatives, i.e. naturally occurring biochemical compounds, which are the result of genes or metabolism of biological or genetic resources, even if they do not contain functional units of inheritance. The Protocol also covers so-called traditional knowledge of indigenous and local communities related to genetic resources. Genetic resources and biochemical compounds, which are defined quite widely within the meaning of the Protocol, find application in various areas of human activity from agricultural research and breeding, food industry and modern technologies to pharmacy, veterinary medicine or cosmetics industry. However, the scope of the Protocol is also limited to some extent and does not apply to genetic resources which are within the scope of other international conventions, such as international agreements on plant genetic resources, human genetic resources or genetic resources located in geographical areas outside the national jurisdiction of States. So much for just explaining what we are discussing today and what the nagojský Protocol is all about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u5	Thank you, rapporteur. I open a general debate and ask if anyone is interested in speaking in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would just like to ask, because it is a very technical and non-controversial standard, to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. We are ready to discuss this at the committee meeting on 19 April. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u7	Yes, they're registering a request for a shortening of the time limit for the hearing. Anyone else interested in the show? If not, I'm ending the general debate... [[Voices from the right.]] Excuse me, Mr. Zahradník. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. If you hadn't seen me, it wouldn't have been such a shame. I just want to say that, although both the Minister and the rapporteur have spoken very deeply and highly professionally about the law, we may not know exactly what such genetic resources are. They're some seed collections kept in some banks under strict supervision, or they're some seedlings restored in orchards, or maybe they're random plants wildly growing in those places that you said it was... Maybe that's what this is about. The question is whether some of these genetic resources, by their very nature, are not dangerous for humanity, are we not supposed to - and I think that is what this law is about, how these things are supposed to be protected. Also, should we not pay attention to the fact that we are coming into contact with dangerous substances, perhaps? [[15.20 hours]] I am also in favour of supporting this to the second reading of course. The law is not controversial. It's just an example of a law that many of us don't fully understand when we read it. Well, maybe it'd be worth a few words. If any of you gentlemen are aware of this, you are an expert on this matter, as the Minister will certainly be an expert on it, so if you would tell us what we should imagine under those genetic resources.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. If you don't, then now... [[This is Minister Brabec.]] Do you want to speak in the debate or in the final word? In the debate. You have the floor, Minister, if you like.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u10	Thank you. I'm sure Mr. zahradník wants to test me if I know what biomass is. [[There's laughter.]] So genetic material or genetic resources are collections of any plant, animal or even microbial origin, with the need to contain some functional signs of heredity. In other words, genetic collections are a very broad concept and can really contain thousands, tens of thousands, and even hundreds of thousands of different samples. And, of course, at international level, including European level, are regulated by a whole range of specific regulations, including, of course, that if there were some things that would have elements that could have created any kind of hazard, they naturally are regulated by special laws. But here we are discussing the case of the Nagoya Protocol on a very broad concept of really any material, as I said, animal, plant, or even microbial origin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-05-ps2013-056-02-004-034.u11	Thank you, Minister. Will anyone else react in the context of the general debate? If not, perhaps now I am really ending the general debate and I am asking about the Minister's possible final word. He's not interested. The rapporteur? He's not interested. There was no motion to return or refuse, so we will deal with the motion on the commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone else have a motion for a warranty to the guarantee committee? I do not see any such proposal, so we can proceed to the vote. Who is in favour of the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee? I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? Voting number 134, registered 127 Members, in favour of 105, against 1. This proposal was adopted. I am of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does any of the Members have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? I don't see anybody making a suggestion like that. So I'm saying that this proposal was not directed to any committee other than a guarantee committee. We can proceed to the vote on the shortening of the deadline, as this proposal said in the general debate, i.e. a reduction of the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to raise your hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? Voting number 135, registered 127 Members, for 94, against 9. This proposal was adopted. This concludes the discussion of this point and opens the point
