ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u1	291. Oral inhalation which are intended for the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, the Government of the Czech Republic and other members of the Government. Today, with the participation of the verifiers, we have drawn the ranking of Members in which they will perform and submit oral interviews, first to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka or the Czech Government, from 14.30 to 16.00, to other members of the government from 16 to 18.00. The lists of Members according to the winning order have been distributed to you in the benches. I now give the floor to the Roman Procházka MP, who was drawn first, to give an oral interview to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka. Mr Tomio Okamura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u2	Well, thank you for the floor, Mr. First Vice-President. Before I begin my interview, I would very much like to congratulate you on your election as First Vice-President of the House and wish you every success in your new position. Dear Prime Minister, I am very interested in the impact of the ROP Northwest case, in which some of the regional representatives of the ČSSD in the Karlovy Vary Region were also charged. Let me just remind you that this is a case of influencing European subsidies in the Northwest Regional Operational Programme, when 24 people were told the charges and the damage was calculated to nearly CZK 14 billion. One of the accused is also Cheb mayor Petr Navrátil, now former regional chairman of the ČSSD in the Karlovy Vary Region. Former because, after your call on 16 December, he suspended his membership of the ČSSD and resigned from all internal political functions, but he did not resign from the function of public, for which you also called upon the accused. You are the president of the ČSSD and I am now asking you how your party intends to cope with the fact that the Cheb cell of the ČSSD continues to support you as mayor of the city of the accused man. And not just that. The elected representatives of the ČSSD are willing to break up a functional and operational coalition in the city due to this single name. Can you please explain why a criminally prosecuted person who threatens the good name of the party should not also threaten the good name of the city of Cheb? Will you invite your representatives to deal with this without delay? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u3	There. Thank you for keeping time. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u4	Thank you. Good afternoon, honourable Members. I just want to remind you that these are oral interpelations of Members to the Prime Minister of the Czech Republic. They are not interpelations to the chairman of social democracy. I think that the subject of these interventions should not be the internal affairs of any parliamentary party. I think it's the same thing, the interpellation. If I were to compare it to something, perhaps a Member of Social Democracy would intersect the Chairman of the ANO movement and the Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš not because of his activities at the Ministry of Finance, but because YES may have cancelled the local organization YES in Opava or in Brno-northeater, as I read in the newspaper today. That means these interpelations should not really concern the activities of individual political parties, but they should relate to the functioning of government and government and Prime Minister's activities. In this context, although that was not the question, I just have to say that the government is not interfering in any way with an investigation concerning the case of the ROP Northwest. Secondly, I, as Prime Minister, have no information about this case. As regards the nature of the individual charges mentioned by the Member, these are known in particular to those concerned. I don't really have any information about what these particular individual people were accused of. It's a matter for the police, the D.A., probably in the future of the court, if these things get to court, and only the court can decide whether or not someone committed a crime. Such a statement cannot be made by the Prime Minister and none of the members of the Government. The government simply does not intervene in criminal proceedings in this matter and cannot intervene under the laws of the Czech Republic. As far as the question of the self-government of Cheb is concerned, I must say the same. He's at Cheb City officials who will be the mayor of Cheb City. I don't think it's really the Prime Minister's business to recommend anything to anyone who he has or doesn't elect to be mayor in Cheb City. I'm applying to what I said. That's a position I've been in for a long time. I think that if someone is being charged with a crime, they should consider staying in public office. And the higher the public office, the more serious that should be considered. But it's just a matter of making the decision of the individual. It's the decision of the competent council. He has to judge this matter. I can only convey my personal opinion here, which, if someone is accused of committing a crime, is a public office at that time, so he should consider very seriously whether he should leave such a public office during the course of this matter, an investigation into this matter.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u5	I thank the Prime Minister and ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. He does. So please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u6	Well, thank you for the answer. I am aware that this is not directly an interpelling to the Prime Minister, but to the political party leader. However, it is an ethics of political behavior, so there I am glad that you confirmed the view that there should not be a person who is accused of corruption in that capacity as mayor of Cheb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u7	Thank you. Would the Prime Minister still like to respond? No. Thank you. So another interview - Mr Tomio Okamura, who was drawn in second place, will be prepared by Mrs Věra Kovářová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u8	Mr. Prime Minister, I recently asked you in writing when the House's referendum law will come on the agenda, which your government has put in its programming statement, and instead of giving a clear answer with a fixed deadline, you wrote to me what a fan of democracy and referendum you are supposed to be. That, on the one hand, pleased me for a moment, but, of course, I don't believe your words for a second, because you have never, even after 20 years of politics, pushed for such a thing, but you have never sought a real democracy. The proof is that you and your government have rejected the draft laws of our Freedom and Direct Democracy movement, the SPD, the referendum on the direct election and rebuttal of politicians here in the House, and you have also rejected our Act on the direct and material responsibility of top politicians. But most importantly, I ask again for a clear answer: When will your coalition finally give a referendum law on the House's agenda? And when will you finally give the House the opportunity to discuss our bill of prohibition on slot machines, which you have been deliberately pushing away for two years? All you have to do is say the term. I don't need to hear excuses and rumors. In agreement with your friend Mr. Kalousek, you were able to quickly enlist a legislative and unconstitutional bastard, a law on conflict of interest to disguise the biggest robbers in the future. So I believe that, if you would like, you can easily enforce the referendum law on the agenda. And again, Prime Minister, all you have to do is say the term. There's no need to say anything around here. When do you put the referendum law on the agenda? We have nine months until the end of the term of office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u9	Thank you. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u10	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, there are not many people in the room at this time, there are not many Members and Members. But I think I'm the last person Mr Okamura could blame for having something against the referendum law. I have always voted in favour of the referendum law when this Chamber of Deputies voted. I supported the referendum law, and I have even been signed many times as a co-president of such a proposal when we presented it here as Social Democrats. The problem is, for that law, we need to get a constitutional majority. A constitutional majority is needed, and the government coalition in this Chamber of Deputies has no constitutional majority. The law must also approve the Senate. The government coalition doesn't even have a constitutional majority in itself. An agreement must be reached so that this law will receive support in this Chamber of Deputies by the end of the term of office. We, I believe, presented it in the summer of 2015, or perhaps no one in this Chamber of Deputies can blame the government for not fulfilling its programme, because in the summer of 2015, the government approved the proposal, we sent it here to the Chamber of Deputies, and I suspect that the bill has not yet passed the first reading. That is, there has been a discussion here, which unfortunately has not yet ended by moving the discussion somewhere further. So now it's up to the Chamber of Deputies, it's up to the deputies and the deputies. It needs clear support, that this is a priority, and that the law here in the Chamber of Deputies will be discussed and that it will be adopted. But it's not just up to the government anymore, it's up to the entire Chamber of Deputies. And I think you know the situation that's here. Every time the House meets and the agenda is discussed, there are a number of different priorities, one is pushed over the other, the opposition very often proposes different extraordinary points, which are then discussed, which may take a long time, which is, of course, the legitimate right of the opposition, but then very often does not get to discuss government bills. I would like to remind you of the debate we attended here on Tuesday, when we sat here all Tuesday afternoon without this Chamber of Deputies approving a single bill. So it is also necessary to rationally manage the time available to the Chamber of Deputies. And since Mr Okamura did not just mention a referendum in his interview, but he also mentioned a conflict of interest law, I would like to respond clearly. I'm convinced it's a good thing we've tightened up the conflict of interest law. It's a damn need, because there's a growing number of very wealthy people who are entering politics, but they don't want to say goodbye at the same time as their business, and that's not good. I think we need to choose. Either someone holds public office, defends public interest, represents citizens, or does business, or owns the media. And I think it is necessary to contribute to the absence of an opaque intertwined person who will base suspicions of conflict of interest. And if political culture can't solve this, if there isn't an unwritten rule in our country that everyone would respect that when I go into politics, I become a minister, I automatically end up with business activities, if there isn't such a high political culture, then we need to have clear rules. koneckonců all, the conflict of interest law does not only deal with the business of ministers. There are also declarations of property submitted by public officials at the beginning of their duties. There's a register showing the contents of all statements of conflict of interest. That means there are a number of significant improvements. I am glad that the conflict of interest law in this Chamber of Deputies has been passed. After all, it was also an important part of the government program. I believe that it is not good for a minister who has a huge amount of information to do business that it is not good for a minister who approves the rules of the game to influence the laws, to influence the subsidy rules, to do so at the same time when his firms apply to public procurement when his firms receive state or European subsidies. This just isn't right. I am pleased that the Chamber of Deputies has helped us to have a stricter law here, which will restrict the business activities of ministers. I think that, as rich people, very wealthy people, are increasingly entering politics not only in the Czech Republic but also in other countries of the European Union, I think that other countries within Europe will also have to approve these rules. So I respond to the question on the referendum, and I also respond to what Mr Okamura has said here in relation to the conflict of interest law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u11	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member - he is interested in an additional question.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u12	Prime Minister, I didn't ask you this, so I'll repeat the question: when will you put the referendum law on the agenda and when exactly will you push it this year when there are elections in October. All you have to do is say the term, there's no need for talk. This week, I proposed that we put the referendum law firmly on the House's agenda for next week, and your Members voted against, so the proposal failed. Why is the bill of referendum so defensive? Why, then, did you deceive citizens and give a referendum law three years ago in the government's programming declaration? You know that if the law is not discussed immediately, it will no longer be accepted by the end of the parliamentary term. And about what you said here, you basically just confirmed that you're an extremely weak prime minister who can't find a match, you can't make a deal. Moreover, I have now told you that you yourself are manipulating the information here, you have now voted against the proposal on Tuesday, your government voted against it, you voted against our bill on referendums, against the proposal to rescind politicians and their material responsibility, and that would be a systemic solution to conflicts of interest, not to hide companies somewhere in trust funds.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u13	Thank you. The Prime Minister is interested in an additional answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u14	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly glad to be the Prime Minister who has the results. This country has the lowest unemployment within the European Union. We have economic growth three years in a row, we have the largest budget surplus, I think, in 25 years. These are the results. I am pleased that the minimum wage is increasing, that wages and salaries are rising in the Czech Republic. Finally, the standard of living is increasing. Finally, this year will be a normal pension valorization. And I think, with all due respect, that the Member who led the political party, who immediately broke up with him after he got to this Chamber of Deputies, maybe he can hardly talk about who is weak or is not weak President. He has also failed the Presidency completely within his political party. I would like to make it clear that the government has a referendum law in its programming statement, a year ago we sent it here, which means the government approved it, we sent it here. Now it's very important that there's a consensus in the House, that law has finally been negotiated, the House has approved it to find a constitutional majority here. As Prime Minister, I certainly wish that we had a referendum law by the end of the parliamentary term, just as I wish we could still pass a law that extends the powers of the Supreme Audit Office, which will also require a constitutional majority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u15	Thank you. Mrs Věra Kovářová will do the next interview, Mr Ladislav Šincl will prepare.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u16	Dear Prime Minister, once again I am addressing you in the matter of high-speed Internet connection, which was to be extended in a number of areas of the Czech Republic with the help of European money. Specifically, it's 14 billion. Crowns. Unfortunately, these funds are still not pumped and optimistic is not even the latest information. Although on 5 October last year, the government approved two key materials, both the national plan for the development of new generation networks and then the draft law on measures to reduce the cost of introducing high-speed electronic communications networks, it seems that this did not save the situation. I say this, for example, because the first subsidy challenge to be launched in December has been postponed to January, but disputes with the professional public regarding the definition of white places are likely to delay it until March. In response to my last interview last November, you said that implementing documents, such as project evaluation criteria and the proposal for a call, are now being prepared and the identification of the intervention areas to which support can be directed is further completed. I ask you therefore, Prime Minister: Are these preparations going well or not? At this point, is there a time when the government can stand up for challenges? Has the decision on white sites already been taken, and isn't it in the whole constantly extending story about the failure of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, for which the Czech Republic may eventually lose 14 billion? That's why I'm asking you what you're going to do to make sure it doesn't happen. And I hope, Prime Minister, that you will answer my question about Internet connection and not about social housing, for example, as you did in the case of Mr Okamura. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u17	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u18	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, first of all I would like to thank Mrs Kovářová for her continued interest in this issue, because I think it is important for the Government that the opposition should control her actions and remind her of her own priorities. So that's the thing I appreciate positively anyway. Although I would also very much like to talk about the issue of social housing, which I consider very important, I would like to see it through to the end, so I will talk about the Internet. And since this is a rather technical issue, I would like to take the liberty of drawing on the written basis that I have at this time, and I would like to quote some of it. The government approved two key documents here on this issue on October 5th. That's the deal. National plan for the development of new generation networks and draft law measures to reduce the cost of high-speed internet deployment. With regard to the approval of the national plan for the development of new generation networks, this was important in order to meet the preliminary conditions for implementing the special objective, that is to say the Operational Programme Enterprise and Innovation for Competitiveness, entitled to increase coverage through high-speed Internet access. This is the key target. The preliminary condition was met, the European Commission approved the national plan for the development of new generation networks on 9 December last year, which means that on 9 December we have the consent of the European Commission. This target, which I mentioned, which was mentioned by the honourable Member, is allocated 521 miles. EUR, i.e. approximately 14 billion. Crowns. As I asked for information from the Ministry of Industry, the form of selection criteria is currently being completed based on comments from the professional public. Work is being carried out on the preparation of an amended draft of the intervention areas to which the subsidy funds should be directed. This proposal will be subject to a public consultation with a duration of about four weeks with a prerequisite for the start of February this year. The other accompanying documents required for the first call for grant aid applications shall be processed. The Czech Telecommunications Office also cooperates on this documentation. As regards the announcement of the call, this is planned after the outcome of the public consultation and I was informed that this call should most likely be announced during the month of March of this year. Thus, to date, the Ministry of Industry and Trade indicates that a call could still be announced in March concerning this operational programme. I think it's important that we actually spend the money. And let me just say, I still have a little bit of time, a few notes on the other thing, and that's the law on measures to reduce the cost of introducing high-speed electronic communications networks. I'm glad that this proposal has already been through the first reading here, which means it's better off than the referendum bill. It shall be discussed in committees. I have information that the Economic Committee has interrupted the discussion of this proposal, it should be returned to it on 23 January of this year. So I consider it important that we manage to discuss this bill and approve it in the Chamber of Deputies in any case until the end of this term, so that it does not remain as a debt to us here. And I want to promise The Chamber of Deputies and the Chamber of Deputies that, as Prime Minister, I will certainly be interested in keeping with the deadlines announced by the Ministry of Industry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u19	Thank you. Is the Member interested in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u20	Prime Minister, thank you for your answer. I also thank you, of course, for the assurance and power I wish that this story, which does not sound very flattering for the Czech authorities, especially the Ministry of Industry and Trade, should turn out well. And hopefully my further interpelations on this matter, which I am calling upon, will help to do so. To let even a part of the 14 billion Europeans slip through. It would be a big mistake between your fingers and I believe that you, Prime Minister and perhaps Minister Mládek are well aware of that. You've thanked me for my interest for several times. Believe me, however, I would rather not have to interpel you on this matter any more, or high-speed Internet is really the future for this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u21	Thank you, too. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u22	Thank you. honourable Members, I think that the key to making this story successful will be if the Ministry of Industry or the relevant operational programme is able to set clear criteria on the basis of which it will be possible to call for a challenge. So as soon as the challenge is announced, I think that this is a significant milestone with regard to the drawing of these relevant funds. And then perhaps there will be no need for further interpellation on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies if we get this far at that stage of the use of European funds. I must say, this is not an entirely simple process. A number of things have not been prepared in the past, it requires a great coordination of several institutions, it requires a large involvement of the private sector, which, of course, has very often different interests in its individual segments, and the Ministry of Industry and the Czech Telecommunications Office must look for some maximum degree of compliance so that the parameters, criteria and procedures are not contradicted by market operators as well. So let's hope that the terms announced by the Ministry of Industry will be realistic, that the call will be announced in March, and I will definitely continue to be interested in this as Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u23	Thank you. I beg you, Member, before I give you my word, I'm only going to adjust to the tape that President Hamáček is not apologizing for the negotiations, he is present. And I will specify the apology of Mr David Kádner, who apologizes from 14.30 pm to the end of the day for working reasons and Minister Marián Jurečka, who apologizes from 16.30 pm for working reasons. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u24	Dear Prime Minister, I am addressing you on the issue of structurally affected regions, including the Ústecký Region, the Karlovy Vary Region and the Moravian-Silesian Region. Since I come from the Moravian-Silesian region, I am particularly interested in this region and the Karvin region, which belongs to the districts with the highest unemployment rate in the country. One of the government's declared priorities is to reduce social and economic inequality in the country. One solution for improving the economic situation for this region and region is the creation of new jobs. For example, these new jobs were to bring a new industrial zone in Barbora, which was to help address the local high unemployment and mitigate the threat of redundancies in OKD. In September 2014, you visited the Karvin region and promised clear support for the construction of the new Nad Barborou industrial zone. According to your words, she was supposed to find a job from about two to five thousand people. You said Karvina and Karvinsko are your priority, because here it is necessary to quickly offer people work elsewhere than in mining, which OKD will undoubtedly dampen even further. Unfortunately, the above Barbora industrial zone is not yet ready. That's why I have a question for you. Every day in the Karvin region, I meet a number of people registered at the employment office who would like to work but have no place. That is why I want to ask you when the promised zone above Barbora will already be, and what concrete measures and objectives this government of yours is preparing to improve the economic situation in this region. I'd really like an honest answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u25	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u26	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Šincl for his interest in information on the issue of the preparation and development of the strategic industrial zone Nad Barborou. Indeed, the zone is being prepared in connection with the restructuring of economically weak regions, namely the Karviná region in the Moravian-Silesian region. The preparation of this strategic industrial zone was approved by the resolution of our government, or, sorry, it was approved by the Government's resolution, which was still the government of Jiří Rusnok, October 30, 2013, and then our government followed it up with an updated government resolution on 22 July 2015. This industrial zone is prepared under a programme to support business real estate and infrastructure. The administrator of this programme is the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the recipient of the subsidy is the Moravian-Silesian Region and the source of funding should be a special account of the Ministry of Finance. One of the conditions for issuing the registration of this particular grant action is the demonstration of territorial decisions in the legal power of the main buildings of technical and transport infrastructure. In this case, the beneficiary of the subsidy must provide evidence of four territorial decisions. Unfortunately, in three cases of these four territorial decisions, comments were made during the process of territorial proceedings and appeals were made by the parties and the territorial decision in legal power has not yet been substantiated. Without obtaining territorial decisions in legal power, the Moravian-Silesian Region cannot continue the further preparation and construction of the transport and technical infrastructure of this industrial zone. That's one point. [[15.00 hours]] Second point. Since the acquirer of this subsidy and actually the entity that should organise the preparation of the establishment of this industrial zone is the Moravian-Silesian Region, it is very important that the new management of the Moravian-Silesian Region arising from the elections to the regions last year also participates in the implementation of this event and is also active in the preparation of the implementation of this event. The way I see it is that the previous leadership of the Moravian-Silesian Region was the creation of an industrial zone as a priority, but at this point I do not have any information as to whether the creation of this industrial zone is also a priority for the new leadership of the Moravian-Silesian Region. Personally, I have nothing to change about the statements you quoted, which I made at the time I visited Karvina. I am convinced that the government must prepare the conditions for creating new jobs in this region. It is a long-term task, but we need to try to shorten the preparation as much as possible and to create the conditions for the creation of new companies, new companies, new operations right here in this region with the prospect of employing laid-off employees from gradually subdued OKD. I just want to mention that the resolution of the situation in relation to the OKD downturn is one of the key priorities for the government. We have dealt with a lot of the question, which therefore concerns OKD. Firstly, I am glad that the Act on early retirement for miners who worked underground has been passed. There was a significant reduction in the age for retirement. I am also glad that the debate in the government was not easy, that we pushed through a social contribution, a special social contribution that can be paid up to three years for people who leave OKD. The third thing that I think is important for the downturn to be gradual and for OKD to be able to cope with the current situation is also the loan that was granted to OKD with the support of the government to cope with the current situation and to organise a gradual downturn. It is crucial for the region to release workers from OKD gradually over a number of years so that we can respond to this in the field of active employment policy. And although, and this may be the last remark, although today the Moravian-Silesian Region records around 10,000 job vacancies, of course, jobs that are in some real accessibility of the region are key, and jobs that can fit the structure of workers being discharged from OKD in terms of qualification requirements. So it is not only possible to mechanically compare the number of job vacancies in the region of the Moravian-Silesian Region, but it is also necessary to focus on the places available in the region.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u27	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member - is he interested in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u28	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your answer. I really must say that we are glad that we managed to enforce the earlier retirement of the miners and a special contribution for the unemployed miners who would have left OKD due to redundancies. However, there are also a number of other people, not only miners OKD, and they are also registered here at the employment office. But I would just like to say that the result of the socio-economic inequality of these differences between regions and the high unemployment rate here is that thousands of young people leave this region every year. Karvina County recorded the highest population loss. This was a decline of 2 031 people, which was here last year, and it was a higher number than any figure in all regions of the Czech Republic, in any region of the Czech Republic. Another consequence is that there are paradoxically fewer children entering primary schools, and then there are also layoffs of teachers, etc. etc. The situation is simply not easy and simple here in our region. I want to thank you for your efforts, but I think we need to add a little bit more. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u29	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u30	Thank you. Maybe I'd like to add a little bit more to the whole thing. First of all, I understand what Mr Šincl said, because the situation in Karvina, in particular, is really not easy in Karvinsko. But it is part of a solution that must be formulated and directed towards all regions that are structurally disabled. And I am glad that the government finally agreed on the strategic framework for the economic restructuring of the Ústecký Region, the Moravian-Silesian Region, on 9 January this year. This material has been prepared by the Ministry of Regional Development in cooperation with the Government Agent for the structurally affected regions, and at this point we will be preparing a concrete action plan, namely concrete measures which will aim to address the difficult issues that Mr Šincl has also mentioned. This means, not only is it a question of creating new jobs, but it is also a question of promoting education in the regions concerned, addressing the issue of socially excluded localities, improving the environmental situation. So we have a strategic framework here at this point, and now the government and the government will focus on preparing a concrete action plan that will already contain individual measures. It will also include funding here for these individual actions, and I would like our government to be able to prepare and approve this action plan. And, of course, we also want to proceed closely with the regions and municipalities in these regions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u31	Thank you, Prime Minister. Mr Igor Jakubčík will speak with further intervention and Mr Seďa will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u32	Thank you. Have a nice afternoon. Dear Prime Minister, my question will be very brief, but I think it is very important in this day and age. The question concerns the issue of cyber security. What is the government doing in this area, and what measures has it prepared to ensure cyber security in the Czech Republic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u33	The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u34	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, when I presented the Cyber Security Act here in this Chamber a long time ago as a new legal standard that would have modified the issue of ensuring security and ensuring the protection of critical systems against hacker attacks, it was certainly not a topic that would have filled the front pages of the newspaper, and it was not at that time a topic that would have created headlines on information servers every day. But it turns out that we have done well because we have approved a good basis here in the Chamber of Deputies on time, which means we have a law on cyber security. Likewise, at a time when the current director of the National Security Bureau created the part of the NBU that began to deal with cyber security, I suspect seven or eight years ago, so at that time it was also not something that was completely popular and fully perceived as what is modern and what needs to be devoted to absolute priority. Nevertheless, it turned out that this was the right and strategic decision within the NSA at the time. I say this because we have something to build on here, we have something to build on, we can build on the work that has been done within the National Security Bureau, and we can follow up on what our government has already done with regard to the Cyber Security Act. Not only have we passed a new law here, which came into force on 1 January 2015, but our government has prepared an amendment to the Cyber Security Act, which happened to have passed here yesterday through the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies. We respond, first, to the European directive, which should ensure a high level of security of networks and information systems within the European Union in the framework of European cooperation, but also in the proposal for this amendment, we extend the scope of the existing Cyber Security Act to operators of basic services as well as managers and operators of information systems of basic services operating in key infrastructure sectors such as energy or transport. Enlargement also concerns key digital service providers, such as e-commerce platforms and search engines. Thus, for those newly included groups that propose to include the amendment, the obligations of the Cyber Security Act will apply. We will require them to take appropriate steps to eliminate security risks, to report any cyber incidents to the National Security Authority. [[15.10 hours]] I would also like to say that the government, with effect from 1 February this year, has appointed Mr Dušan Navrátil, a government agent for cybersecurity, who is currently acting as Director of the National Security Office, and its task will be to create a National Cyber and Information Security Office, which will be set aside from the National Security Office in line with the government's priority, which is to speed up the readiness of the Czech Republic to the issue of cyber threats. Once again, I am very pleased that this decision that we have made means the creation of an independent National Cyber Information Security Authority is something that is absolutely timely and perfectly in line with the analysis of the current risks we are heading towards the readiness of the Czech Republic to the risks that belong to the modern information society. koneckonců all, the national security audit that we carried out made it clear that the question of cyberattacks was something that the government must pay more attention to. We have also approved, or the government has agreed to the NSA start preparing a new building that should serve this National Cyber Information Security Authority in the future, the new building should be built in Brno - Black Fields. And the last thing I'd like to stress. The trend of the electronicisation of state and public administration is strengthened. In industry, the digital revolution begins in principle. Industry 4.0. Of course, all of this will create a much larger field for potential attacks that will threaten security, may threaten sensitive data, but may also threaten the functioning of sensitive systems. Thus, even as a result of the digitalisation and advanced electronisation of the state administration, it is extremely important that we address cyber security in priority.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u35	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u36	Dear Prime Minister, thank you. I think the emergence of this new office is very necessary. There's one more thing I'd like to know. The National Bureau of Cyber Information Security is, say, a civil authority, but at the same time, cybersecurity and cybercrime are also involved in Military Intelligence. I think it would be appropriate for some coordination of these two services to take place. I know that certain steps are already happening here in some way, that partial coordination is taking place and will take place, but I would like to know whether this coordination will be managed directly by the government, or that will be the individual components that will cooperate with each other.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u37	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u38	Yes, those things go relatively fast. There is also a relatively rapid increase in the risks that we, as a government, must respond to. That is why, at this point, we have initiated two legislative processes that are actually taking place in parallel. Now here in the Chamber of Deputies is an amendment to the Cyber Security Act, but at the same time, there is also an amendment to the Military Intelligence Act. I think it is important that we take advantage of the fact that both of these standards are being amended and discussed at the same time in order to make sure that there is a sufficiently precise definition of the competences of the two institutions. So here, I am clearly prepared as Prime Minister to promote good communication between the National Security Office at this time and its Government Agent and Military Intelligence and the Ministry of Defence, so that, during the discussion of this bill here in the Chamber of Deputies, we can rely on a clear division of responsibility between these two key institutions. I think it's important that we realize that the National Security Bureau, potentially the new Cyber Information Security Bureau, actually has a focus on the civilian sector, the corporate sector, and as far as military intelligence competences are concerned, it's a cyber-defense issue, and it has to be clearly directed to that special security area.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u39	Thank you. Mr Antonín Seďa will speak with the next interview, Mrs Langšádlová will prepare herself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u40	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, I personally realise that pension valorisation is a complex matter with an impact on the state budget. On the other hand, it must be noted that the vast majority of seniors do not have large savings, many of them cannot make extra money and most of them live only on pensions. And I will remind you that the reduction in pension valorisation in economic times has reduced the standard of living and, above all, has reduced the base for future pension valorisation. That is why it happened that this government, which has restored the level of valorisation to its original level, has endured criticism for the valorisation in tens of crowns. And the addition of more than 300 crowns on average after the increase in government also did not meet with a number of seniors with a positive response. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like to ask what steps you intend to take before the end of this government's term of office, particularly to improve the situation of our seniors, and what you have an idea of the possible pension rate against the average wage, in order to avoid a decline in the standard of living of our seniors. Thank you for your answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u41	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u42	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, this is indeed a very serious subject. Almost the less than five minutes I have to answer now, I don't think that's gonna be enough, and that's why I'm focusing on some of the big questions. First of all, I completely agree that the valorization, which was 40 crowns, was not enough valorisation. At that time, the government was trapped by legislation, which, unfortunately, did not allow us to raise our pension more. That means we focused on what we could do, and that's why we paid all seniors and pensioners CZK 1,200 to compensate for the low 40 crown pension valorization that was here in 2016. So that's the thing we had to do. But we also immediately focused on changing the rules so that it wouldn't happen again with the 40 crowns. I am glad, and I would also like to thank this House that last year we managed to approve a change of rules here, that we approved it on time in the spring, which means that we were able to raise the limit for valorisation of pensions, where the government has the possibility of considering, up to 2.7 percent. This means that from now on, the government has the opportunity to valorise pensions up to 2.7 percent on the basis of its decision. If we had this option from the law two years ago, there was no 40 Crowns valorisation, but the valorization was significantly higher. Because we have a new law, new rules, so this year's valorization will be the 308 or 309 crowns on average, which is significantly better than the 40 crowns that were a year ago. But what is alarming is that the ratio between the average pension and the average wage is constantly falling, and in a situation where, thankfully and thank God, the economy is growing and wages are rising, so there is a risk that the ratio between wages, the average pension and the average wage will continue to decrease. This means that we need a measure that would stabilise the share of average income on an average wage of at least 40 percent. If we don't take any measures now in terms of valorisation rules, there is a risk that the average pension will gradually fall below 40 percent of the average wage and then the average pension will fall further. That is why I support the proposal that came from the pension committee to further modify the scheme of valorisation. I want this Chamber of Deputies to do this, it would be good if we could agree on that. This means, firstly, that pension valorisation would not be one third of wage growth, but 50 percent of wage growth would be. This means that wage growth in pension valorisation would be more taken into account. And the second change would concern that the price-based indexing of 100 percent of inflation today would be assessed by two indices. One general inflation index and the other so-called retirement inflation index. This means, according to the growth in the cost of living of retirement households. So there's going to be two indices, one general index, one index that's going to be about purely retirement households, and the government will be able to take into account the more favourable index that's going to be for seniors. So two parameters of the change in pension valorization system. [[15.20 hours]] According to our calculations, which we have at our disposal, if we were able to set up the pension valuation system like this, it would result in us stabilizing the share of average income to average wages over 40 percent in the next few years. I'd think that was very important, because that would actually stop the decline in the standard of living of seniors. And if we also have the money to valorize pensions in the coming years, which, among other things, we would also like to use the budget surplus to strengthen our pension account, I think there is a great chance that the situation of pensioners will improve as part of the annual valorisations. So this is the proposal that we are discussing in the government coalition at the moment. If we could agree on that, I think it could mean another positive change for the elderly.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u43	Thank you. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. He has, please, your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u44	Thank you, Prime Minister, for your comprehensive answer. You're right, I completely forgot about the compensation of CZK 1,200 in 2016, and I'm afraid a number of seniors have forgotten that. I wanted to ask you another question. When you're talking in a government coalition about how to change the law, and I definitely agree with the proposal, I still see as a big problem the problem of old-timers. I, as a Member, and certainly my colleagues, are dealing with a number of problems where those old-timers, because they had low wages in the past, have really far lower pensions than the new-timers. I was wondering if even in the proposal you're counting on, let's say, some more valorization for these old-timers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u45	Thank you, too, and the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u46	Thank you. Dear Member, honourable Members, the situation of the elderly is something that bothers me, too, because there are large differences in pensions. There is the same problem with lonely pensioners, especially women who will remain alone, i.e. their partner most often dies, they stay alone, and the average pensions of women are about CZK 2,000 lower than the average pensions of men in the Czech Republic. So we have a big problem here. Unfortunately, we cannot make any major changes in the pension system in the next ten months, which is why I would like us to at least improve the system of valorisation, because it will help everyone. It will help everyone, because it will mean higher amounts each year to valorize pensions. Likewise, if we could transfer the budget surplus, the 62 billion, to the pension account, then a reserve will be created for pension valorisation even in years when the economy will not grow as well as it is now. So that, too, would be a certain certainty for the elderly in the future. And one final point. What else can we do for the elderly, including the elderly? I welcome the proposal made by the Minister of Health, i.e. it would reduce the limit for the surcharges that are returned by health insurance companies to seniors. That's what I think could help a whole bunch of seniors. That's one important thing. And the second important thing: the law on social housing. A large number of seniors receive a housing allowance. A large number of seniors are in a difficult situation in terms of deregulated rent. And I think that the social housing system, if it is more sophisticated, if we manage to pass the social housing law by the end of the term, it can do a lot for the living conditions and the elderly and the elderly in general. So improving the situation from the point of view of limits on drugs, returning from health insurance companies, adopting a social housing law and a new system of pension valorisation that takes into account wage growth of 50 percent as something else this House and this government can do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u47	Thank you. Mrs Helena Langšádlová will speak with further intervention and Mr Marek Černoch will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u48	Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, I would like to interpel you on the activities of the Government of the Czech Republic in the field of civil education. It turns out that people, after a quarter-century period of political change, cease to be active in the public area and lose interest in politics and sometimes do not understand it. This can mean isolation of political parties and an increase in extremist views in society, which is very dangerous for our future democratic development. I consider it important for people to know, for example, the importance of the functioning of public institutions. It is necessary to clarify the basic principles of the functioning of democratic society. Citizens should know what they may want from politicians at individual levels, how the electoral system works and what their participation in the resolution of public affairs can be. We all, whether as voters or as politicians, must constantly learn to live in democracy. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you to answer these questions: What concrete steps is the Government of the Czech Republic taking or will it take in favour of civil education? And what is the timetable for preparations and specific steps? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u49	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u50	The honourable Members, honourable Members, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, on the initiative of Members, then the entire working group, in which representatives of all the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, began preparing material on the basis of which the Government was to decide on the processing of the concept of civil education in question, in accordance with the resolution adopted by this House on 4 December 2014 on the 25th anniversary of the restoration of the democratic rule of law. With the idea that it would be ideal if the concept had been completed and presented for the 100th anniversary of the establishment of the independent Czechoslovak Republic in 2018. I would like to inform you that the Government has decided, following negotiations with the Coalition Council, that the preparation of the concept will be entrusted to the Minister for Legislation, Human Rights and Equal Opportunities, in cooperation with the ministries of education, justice and culture. On 14 December, the Government, on a proposal from Minister Valachová, supplemented the plan for non-legislative work for this year by imposing on the Minister for Human Rights, Equal Opportunities and Legislation on presenting to the Government the concept of civil education in cooperation with the ministries of education, culture and justice, with the deadline for submitting to the Government is May 2017. As I have been informed, of course, preparatory and working negotiations are already under way on this issue, and this is certainly an important task that Minister Chvojka will be in charge of. The aim is to ensure long-term viability and the development of a democratic way of managing public affairs through education for active citizenship, by strengthening awareness of the functioning of democracy and by strengthening the capacity to work critically with information resources. We expect the concept to be the subject of a broad discussion, to which not only representatives of ministries and academic institutions involved will be invited, and on the basis of the analytical part will be part of the concept as well as a proposal for systematic effective implementation of the objectives of civil education. The question of form, practical provision of this concept is not yet resolved and will, of course, depend on the final form of this concept, which the government should discuss and approve within its mandate, i.e. until the end of the current term of office.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u51	Thank you. I will ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u52	I'm just very brief. Prime Minister, this question is very sensitive because, of course, civil education is also very sensitive to all political parties, and it is a fundamental principle for education to be pluralistic, so that it is not really about indoctrination. Therefore, I would ask you to include all political parties in the debate on the creation of the concept of civil education, so that we can participate in this debate and that this basic principle is indeed ensured in the implementation of the concept. I think we have a lot of states around us, whether it's Germany, Holland and other countries where we can inspire and take over many of their good practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u53	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u54	Thank you, too. Thank you again for stressing and reminding me of this matter. Given that there has been an assignment to the Minister of Human Rights and Legislation, if this has not yet been done, I will ask Minister Chvojka to extend, prolong or renew the work group, which was at the Ministry of Education, which was the representatives of the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies, to have some control over the process and the preparation, because it is certainly not the government's aim that there should be some unilateral indoctrination of our pupils and students, in order to highlight only some ideologies here. It simply has to be a system that will be set up in a civilly neutral manner in favour of the functioning of the democratic system of the rule of law. As far as inspiration is concerned, I think we should certainly not resist this, and if there are countries where there is an effective system that actually works neutrally, I think that we should certainly not defend ourselves with inspiration, and I think that the working group could possibly bring these suggestions to Minister Chvojka. I'm gonna talk to Minister Chvojka about this, and I want these things to run.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Marek Černoch will speak with the next interview. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Prime Minister, we were discussing the privatisation of OKD on Tuesday, and I asked you if you would publish an incriminate record of the 2004 government meeting when you were the Minister of Finance and when the privatisation of OKD took place. This important record was requested not only by Pavel Kuta of the National Property Fund, one of the defendants in the OKD case, but also by the media. It didn't happen, and this footage would probably bring light to the whole case. OKD was sold to Mr. Bakal for 4 billion. Crowns. By selling thousands of apartments included in the privatisation, Mr. Bakala received OKD free of charge. The estimated price published by Ernst and Young was 52 billion. So the difference is 48 billion. Crowns. The Czech Republic and our citizens were robbed by 48 billion. Crowns. Now there will also be unemployment in the Moravian-Silesian region, social problems, mines closing, down security and so on. In addition to the huge problems that people in this region will have to deal with, this will be another hundreds of millions of crowns that our citizens will have to pay out of their own taxes. You say how transparent your government is, how you fight thieves. And here's where you pretend nothing's going on. I won't accept that it's all statuted out, that the laws apply only to someone, that justice doesn't exist, that it's nothing. I just won't. Is that why I ask you, Prime Minister, will you publish the incriminating 2004 sound records so that citizens can learn the truth? And the second question. If you're saying it's not your fault, we have signatures to set up an investigation committee. So will you personally support the establishment of this committee of inquiry? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u57	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u58	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, a number of absolute falsehoods and total lies are being used in the matter of privatization of the OKD. koneckonců all, the Member has also demonstrated this in the context of his interpellation. Because the government I was a member didn't sell OKD to any Mr. Bakal. The government sold OKD to the then majority owner of this company, Karbon Invest, which, in fact, by the time I became a minister, already effectively controlled OKD and owned most of OKD. So privatization didn't start 12 years ago. The privatization of OKD began in the early 1990s. That's when privatization started, that's when the government decided to put OKD in the coupon, that the mines would go into the coupon. At that time, the minister, who was at the Ministry of Industry, decided to put the apartments in a coupon, that the apartments in OKD would go into a stock company, that it would go into a coupon. It was then decided that part of the shares would be transferred to municipalities and cities. That seemed like a reasonable idea. The problem is that municipalities and cities immediately sold shares as soon as interested parties showed up who offered them specific money for it. This is the story of the history of privatization of OKD. It started in the early '90s. And by the time I became Minister of Finance, the government already had a minority in OKD. The National Property Fund has decided several years before - I also don't understand why, an incredible thing - that they will not participate in the increase in the capital. At a time when the state could still hold the majority, the officials of the National Property Fund decided not to raise the capital, and the state lost the majority. So we're talking about the sale - the sale - of the minority share of OKD. The government where I was a member didn't sell flats, didn't privatize OKD. She was selling a minority share that was left to the government in OKD. We didn't sell it to Bakal, but we sold it to Karbon Invest, who owned the majority back then. At that time, the government dealt with people who owned the majority of OKD. And even then, the unions in OKD encouraged the stability of the company to sell it to major owners. At that time, the mining unions were worried about a different owner than the one who owns the majority, that there might be conflicts in a company that would jeopardize the stability of society. Those are the things that happened back then. As regards the public issue, documents, I would like to remind you that all privatisation projects, including the OKD privatisation project, are publicly available. Realized privatization projects, including relevant related implementation components, contractual documentation, documentation for litigation, correspondence and similar are archived, are stored in the Ministry of Finance in the file room of privatisation projects. It is managed by Department 62 Economics with State property. Following a written request addressed to the Director of Division 62, anyone may request access to the privatisation project and its implementation components or purchase of copies. That has to be stated. Things are archived, it is possible to ask for insight into these documents. It must also be said that the privatization agreement at OKD, for which the state received some money - now I am not talking about a coupon for which the state did not receive any money - it is also deposited with the Ministry of Finance. This means any matter relating to the publication of this Treaty, there is a need to contact the Ministry of Finance. And with regard to the price at which the minority stake was sold, the government then - the government, not the finance minister - decided to sell on the basis of expert opinions that it had prepared and commissioned the National Property Fund. We had expert opinions on the basis of which the government then decided, and the price at which the government then approved the sale of a minority stake in OKD was higher than those available expert reports. So, once again, I think it is necessary to describe things as they are, including the fact that the European Commission has subsequently stated - the European Commission, not the Czech Government or the Ministry of Finance - that there has been no public support in this matter. Otherwise, I think it is necessary to respect that the whole matter has been investigated by law enforcement authorities. At this point, this matter is in court, and I think it is necessary to let independent courts decide matters.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u59	Thank you, Prime Minister, for handling the time limit. Is the Member interested in an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u60	He's interested in a follow-up question, thank you. I don't think we're really gonna solve the whole OKD case here. My point is to find the truth. People go to prison for stealing a thousand crowns, which is correct. Billions have been stolen here, and nothing's happening. That's why I'm gonna ask you one more thing. You said all the documents and all the materials are available for inspection. But Lidové noviny asked for an incriminating record, and they were rejected. So the question is whether these records really are all for inspection or just sometimes. I am asking you to initiate this incredibly incredibly incredibly sound record from the 2004 Government's negotiations to be made available to people. That's one question. And the other one in a hurry. I asked you if you personally would support the establishment of a parliamentary committee of inquiry to privatise the OKD. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u61	Thank you, too. The Prime Minister has the floor. You're not interested? Aren't you going to answer? Thank you. In that case, I will ask Mrs Bohdalová with another interview and Mr Hovorka will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u62	Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Prime Minister. There has been talk today about helping pensioners, valorizing pensions, which is very important and very important. But a very important segment of life is families and young families with children. I would like to ask you about the topic of aligning the lives of young families with work, aligning the work of men and women in the labour market and at all aligning family and professional life. I would like to ask what measures the government will take even in the event of unequal valuation, pay for men and women, and what is actually being done for equal opportunities for different sexes on the labour market.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u63	Thank you. The Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u64	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you, Mrs Bohdalová, for opening this issue, because although all political parties always clench themselves before the elections by saying that the family is first for them and that they want to improve the conditions for family life, the situation is not good at all. I am glad that our government has contributed to this over the three years, at least in part, to improving the situation. So there are some things that have already been pushed through. You know that we have been very focused on improving the conditions for pre-school education, i.e. both money to municipalities and cities to expand the capacity of kindergartens and primary schools, and of course we also focused on supporting parents and introducing tax reductions for each child in pre-school facilities. Thus, the topic of strengthening the capacity of pre-school facilities remains as a task for the government even in the current period, and it would be good if, even in the next parliamentary term, the subsidy programmes for municipalities and cities where a strong population boom is taking place, where young people are moving to work and where there is a need for sufficient capacity in kindergarten and primary schools. You know that together we supported the children's groups as an alternative, we supported the micro-level, i.e. in 2016, in January last year, a pilot verification project for micro-scale operations was launched, projects were selected to be supported from European funds in this area. As far as remuneration is concerned, there is a '22 per cent equality' project on gender equality. Why 22 per cent of equality? Because 22 percent is actually the monthly average difference between men's and women's remuneration, or about CZK 6,500, which is the amount, which is the average difference between men's and women's remuneration in our country. Now, here's what else we can do in the Chamber of Deputies by the end of the term. It is important that we approve the adjustment of the parental contribution towards greater flexibility in drawing it up in order to abolish the condition for placing children under two years of age. These are things the government has already proposed. I think it will simplify the situation for families with children and allow them to respond better to their particular situation in life. Second thing. Regulation of the Labour Code, which should strengthen the status of employee protection even in situations relating to maternity leave and return to work after maternity leave. Father's postpartum care. It can, of course, seem somewhat symbolic, the seven days that will be paid for as part of the sickness insurance for the father within six weeks of childbirth, but again it is something that many families can help in this whole new life situation for a number of parents. What I consider to be good for families in general would be if we managed to push for a long-term infirmary, i.e. three months off to care for a person close to you in a serious life situation. The problem is that, of course, a number of parents of working age have to take care not only of their children but also of their sick parents. Here, I think these are things that could also be of great help in aligning family and working life. And then, of course, I would also like us to move forward in the area of support for the singles, because, unfortunately, so far, there is no agreement in the coalition as regards the Act on Substitute Maintenance, which was prepared by Minister Marksová. So far, the other coalition partners do not agree with this, and so if the agreement on this issue fails and the law does not receive support in the coalition, or in the government, I think we should at least do what we can to strengthen the support of working families with children, including single families, and here the Ministry has prepared a concrete proposal to increase child benefits for working families with children. But I wouldn't want to give up on the alternative maintenance bill. I asked Minister Marksová to submit the proposal to the coalition to bring it to the government, and I think it would be a good thing for the singles that their partners owe maintenance to to take this particular step.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u65	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. He does. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u66	Dear Prime Minister, thank you very much for your answer, but in your reply and in the discussions that I have with the young people I meet, there are other things that have occurred to me. We're talking about increasing the number of places in kindergartens. This need I think will end in two or three years, we will have to move it to the needs of primary schools. But you know what bothers young families the most? That kindergarten doesn't respond to their hours. They don't like the fact that mommy, when she works at 10:00, has to put the baby into kindergarten by 8:30 at the latest, the husband works and the baby is there late into the night. We have also discussed this with the Minister that it would be good to make it flexible in kindergartens when children can be in kindergartens. You were also talking about the three-month care of a person close to you. We are still talking about young people caring for their parents, but often pregnant women also need three months of care because many of them have a risky pregnancy. [[The President draws attention to the time]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u67	May I have the Prime Minister's word?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u68	Thank you. I think that when we talk about how to set the conditions for reconciliation of personal and work life, we should primarily be concerned with family not being afraid to have children, i.e. There must be such legislative conditions, economic conditions, so that two or three children can be children in a situation where the family doesn't get into social problems. And when the honourable Member mentioned the question of some other changes that need to be made, I think we need to look at the legislation and set it up to support the family to the maximum. And a long-term infirmary. I'm sorry that this thing is being discussed purely from a budget point of view, that they say it's going to cost a lot of money. But I think it is also necessary to look at it from the point of view of what it will mean to ensure the functionality of families. It's about parenting, but it's also about grandparents. That's the situation that's here today. And what the honourable Member mentioned, that particular example, I think it is also worth considering. So in order to create the conditions for the good functioning of families, I think we should offer them the opportunity of a long-term infirmary. About the flexibility in kindergarten. It's a matter of number of jobs. It is a question of money that we have and will have at our disposal, because if we are to have a longer period of time for children in kindergarten, which we will be able to cover from teachers and teachers in kindergarten schools, we need to increase the number of posts, and I think that should also be discussed in the framework of the reform of regional education funding and the conditions for funding kindergarten schools. So the question of normalities and the number of jobs that we can afford to pay from the budget. However, the same applies to school clubs. It is true that the strain will shift in the coming years to the elementary schools, and even there it is extremely important that schools have money for the clerks, for the clerks to be able to provide this service. I must say that in this, the Czech Republic is quite unique, that in many countries of the European Union they do not have such a thing at all, so that after school there is a school group working, so that the state, the government, the community care that there is someone there after school, or before school and after school, who will take care of the child.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u69	Thank you. Mr Ludvík Hovorka will perform with another interview and Mr Karel Fiedler will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u70	Thank you for the floor. Prime Minister, there is no proper supervision of competition in the Czech Republic and the result is a distortion of the competitive environment in the field of pharmaceuticals, for example. As a result of the inactivity of the Office for the Protection of Competition, a number of pharmacies do not reach certain medicinal products at the time necessary or are supplied at a price much higher than in other pharmacies related to distributors and manufacturers. For many years, the cartel links between manufacturers, distributors and pharmacies have been growing in our country in order to push individual pharmacies out of the market. The existence of one exclusive supplier means that medicines are often delivered to hospitals and pharmacies at a maximum price for health insurance companies, because in principle competition in the case of one single supplier makes no sense. On 31 January, the House is to discuss the 706, amendment to the Act on Medicines in the form returned by the Senate. While in November it passed the law with Mr Běhounek's amendment following the recommendation of former Minister Němeček, which obliges distributors to deliver the medicinal product to all pharmacies within 48 hours, the current Minister Ludvík recommended the Senate to approve the law in its wording, which completely eliminates the effect of Mr Běhounek's amendment by changing the obligation to supply drugs to an indefinite period within 48 hours - without undue delay. I want to ask you what happened in less than two months that the Ministry has completely changed its mind. And I want to ask you what you're going to do to get the Competition Authority to intervene and solve similar problems. Because several suggestions have already been put forward in the past and they have been wrongly decided. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u71	I also thank the honourable Member and the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u72	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I can certainly agree with Mr Hovorka that the UOHS is here to ensure the functioning of the market, which will be in accordance with the rules of competition and will benefit consumers. If there are specific suggestions concerning the decision-making activities of the UOHS, these are certainly things where I can request information from the UOHS as Prime Minister and I can ask them to consolidate the procedure on this matter if I am intersected by a Member or a Member of the Chamber of Deputies. So here I am offering Mr Hovorka this journey. If you have specific examples, it is possible to agree on a written interview where I would then turn to the ÚOHS, so as to convey their specific arguments on which you will then be able to express your opinion. So this is probably the way we could use it, because I, as Prime Minister, certainly don't run the UOHS. The IOHS must be independent of the nature of the matter, it must decide whether or not to act independently of the government, but I am definitely prepared, if any information and arguments need to be obtained, to turn to the IOHS in this way. As regards the first question addressed to me by Mr Hovorka, it is to some extent a surprise to me, because I am not informed that there would be such a change in the position of the Ministry of Health. I would rather recommend here contacting the Minister of Health to explain his approach to the Senate. It is true that there was a situation in the House when the law was still under discussion at the time of the former Minister of Health, the new Minister of Health has now joined. I cannot rule out the new minister's position on this matter being somewhat different, but I have not been informed in more detail on this matter. So at this point, I would like to refer to the Minister of Health, or I will again be prepared as Prime Minister, if this thing appears in the form of written interpelation, to contact the Minister of Health and ask him to respond and respond to this matter. If any amendments have been or will be approved in the Senate, this law will return here to the Chamber of Deputies and we will have to decide between possible two options, and even here I assume that the Minister of Health at the Chamber of Deputies should argue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u73	Thank you, Prime Minister. I ask the honourable Member if he is interested in an additional question. [[Yes.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u74	Thank you for the floor and thank you for the offer, but the written interpelation will last at least a month. I may use it, but I still want to say that when I asked Minister Němeček if he had any comments from the Competition Authority on the amendment, he said he didn't. Now, as far as I know, the competition authority has allegedly found the amendment to be defective and has written a statement to the President of the Senate Committee and to the Ministry of Health, and the result is already a specific Senate press, when we have it already available, which is also you, Prime Minister, that the amendment is not in order and that therefore the Office of Competition has a problem with it. What I see as fundamental is that officially as Members, we have not received an opinion from the Office. Maybe the chairman of the Health Committee got it on request and maybe the chairman of the Senate Committee on Health got it, but I don't think it's a good practice, and I'm sure there are examples of bad decisions in this case. [[- Mm-hmm. - Mm-hmm. Your time, Mr. Ambassador.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u75	Thank you, too, and the Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u76	Thank you. honourable Members, as Mr Hovorka has described, these are amendments which have been approved here in the House, an event. in the Senate. That is, it was not part of a government proposal that the government discussed and approved, it sent here to Parliament. What I can do is bring this matter to the attention of Minister Ludvík and I will want to hear his arguments and his opinion on this legislative standard before we come back here in the Chamber of Deputies, because I really, as Prime Minister, do not have enough information on this at the moment, and I want to consult with the Minister of Health and warn him that the Chamber of Deputies will need his clear position, a clear, guaranteed opinion if the Senate returns these matters to us with an amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u77	I thank the Prime Minister for his additional reply. Let me now read the apology of my colleague Martin Lank, who asks for an apology from the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies 12. 1. 2017 between 9 and 16 o'clock due to negotiations. The next draw with number 11 is Mr Karel Fiedler, but we are close to 16 o'clock, so we will no longer be able to discuss the interview, so if you agree, we would be ready for an interview with the members of the government, and I am declaring a break until 16 o'clock.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue with oral interpelations on the other members of the government. I ask Mr Zlatuška to give an interview to the Minister of Education. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u79	Madam Secretary, I am addressing you on a matter that I have referred to several times in writing. I'll sum it up. This is a plagiarism from the University of Pardubice, Mr. Lenoch's work, where, after the Rector's inactivity, in June, I turned to the Ministry for holding instead of the Rector's suggestion that it would be appropriate to consider the Rector's appeal. The Rector appointed an ethics committee in August. Ethics commission in Pardubice 24. 10th of last year, she noted that the charges were justified and that the plagiarism had taken place. Mr. Rector Ludwig sent a letter to the Ministry on 21 November 2016, in which he has a comprehensive account of what happened and argues among other things by academic self-government and faculty competences. In fact, after stating that the charge was justified, the Rector says that it was a specific and isolated case, however incompatible with the work of an academic worker. This incompatibility with the work of an academic worker concerned, among other things, two deans of the University of Pardubice faculties. In fact, nothing happened that would affect them legally. If an academic is pursuing an activity incompatible with the work of an academic, I would expect immediate notice under the Labour Code, or at least appropriate labour penalties in terms of wage reduction, etc. It didn't happen. I therefore believe that the Rector Ludwig is not really doing it. [[Attention on time.]] In fact, he mediatedally uses the university's finances to pay these academic workers' wages. And the question also points to the way in which the Ministry of Education looks at the fact that even Rector Ludwig should be affected at least on salary. I suppose he shouldn't get any rewards. [[It's time warning again.]] And he still insists on being called off.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u80	Thank you. And please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u81	Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to respond to the question that has been repeatedly addressed by the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports. After all, as has already been said here by Professor Zlatuška, the university was not inactive on this matter, virtually. The rector arranged to correct it through the results of an investigation into the ethics commission. The effects of this activity described were such that the workers concerned therefore resigned in terms of their functions. As to whether or not plagiarism has taken place, it is true what has been said here that the Ethics Committee has come to believe that this has actually happened, in the case of two persons. I have already noted the consequences of this. As regards the impact on the possibility, i.e. the position of Rector of the University of Pardubice, here I would just like to say that there has therefore been no inactivity on his part. He solved the matter, he solved the matter. As to the question of the fact that something like this can happen at the university, or even that it is a situation that is repeated by more than one worker, I can certainly agree that this is not the way it should be done in our universities and should not be. As regards the possible consideration in the remuneration of the Rector, I will consider the matter and take it into account at the earliest opportunity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u82	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u83	Madam Secretary, thank you for your answer. I know it's constructive of you. However, I am not satisfied that the matter is settled only by the resignation of the two workers from the position of dean. The letter from Rector Ludwig explicitly states that this was a case incompatible with the work of an academic worker. This is not an incompatible case with the faculty authority. And in that sense, obviously, there is inaction, inaction, inaction at the University of Pardubice. There is no penalty and there is an annual limitation period for sanctions under the Labour Code. Given that for the first time the academic Senate of the University of Pardubice discussed this matter here, I believe, already in March of last year, so more or less within two months this matter will be suspended and no further penalties for employment will be possible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u84	Madam Secretary, if he wishes to answer, he has room.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u85	As regards other options in terms of sanctions in the Labour Code, of course, I take note of the possibilities. And they're as true as Professor Zlatuška describes them. I would probably add my statement that I will be attending the Czech Rectors' Conference in February and will do so in the course of discussions at this institution, including personal negotiations with the Rector of the University of Pardubice, to inform me personally of the situation at the university and thus of the possible impact on the position of the academic staff concerned, with the final conclusion that I will do so in February, which would be sufficient time for the failure of the limitation period as mentioned here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u86	Thank you. Mr Novotný, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u87	Dear Minister, there have been a number of parallel tenders for new air rescue operators in a number of regions of the Czech Republic in recent months. The process has been widely monitored by the public and the media, and today, in these days and weeks, some legal and other problems of this process are being shaken. I don't want to interpel here today expressively, as the name of the following interpelration suggests. The whole process was launched by criticizing the past situation from a number of sides, especially in view of the excessive financial intensity of the operation of the aviation rescue service, not so much in terms of quality as the financial complexity. I would like to ask you a simple question, whether at this point you are able to evaluate the entire process, its results in terms of comparing the newly achieved quality and financial difficulty, or whether the Ministry of Health is preparing some document that could possibly be provided to us, from which we could take a picture of whether the whole process was worth it and whether it was actually comparable with a significant savings of funds in the entire network of tender. I also ask that question because citizens from my Olomouc region repeatedly turn to me with certain doubts as to whether we are able to guarantee the same level of technical, qualitative service in this region and in various other parts of the Republic at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u88	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u89	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must start by apologizing. I was hospitalized yesterday afternoon, out of surgery, and this morning I got cleared from the hospital to be here, so I'm sorry if I'm not so perfect. I have an answer in front of me - I can read it, but it wouldn't seem fair to me. I quite understand your question. I have a bit of a problem with the fact that I've already come to the finish line, so at this point, I just have to finish the tender, which is still open in Ústí nad Labem. Then, of course, I think there must be an evaluation, because one of the materials that must be submitted to the government is the material about the future of the air rescue service after 2020. In my opinion, this material cannot be produced without assessing the current course. This means both the first period, which was sometime until last year, and the following period, which is up to some year. There will certainly be an evaluation, it is certainly necessary to stand up to this from the point of view of state security, because it is important, in my view, that the air rescue services are performed by pilots who gain high qualifications by carrying out this service, which is important for the state in the field of emergency, for natural disasters, etc. If I understand the gros question correctly, we will actually carry out the evaluation, find out how much financial effort there has been or has not been. I quite understand what you're referring to in Olomouc. That's the Slovak operator and helicopters they use. Again, I have to say for myself, I didn't set the tender. I understand where the dog is buried, but at this point in Olomouc the contract is concluded, the operator has his responsibility and must fulfil it. If he doesn't do it, of course we'll intervene. Will it satisfy you like this?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u90	I will ask the honourable Member if he wishes to speak again. That's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u91	I, too, pointed out in my first question that I do not want it to be expressive today, even knowing that it is not your business and that you have been in office at the end of the process. I just wanted to ask if you have any idea when this evaluation might be available, in what time frame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u92	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u93	I'm sure it'll still go to the government in this term of office, so I'm assuming that the tender is actually closed to 1. 1. I think it would be so ideal at least for us to see some results. So we're going to compare the number of hours, we're going to compare the quality of the hits. From my point of view, it would be an ideal year, but since we really want to put it into the government and we want to build on some background, I think at least a quarter to six months. I think I'd like to put it in the government sometime around June.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u94	Thank you. Mr. Mackovík's man, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u95	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hello. I'll stay on the subject. I'm glad I was drawn to mention here, and I'm gonna ask the minister here. Olomouc and Ústí nad Labem. In both cases, the IOHS saves this contract. So I want to ask quite specifically now. The low price is also given by the Slovak operator deploying the helicopter A109K2, which according to how also you selected expert Ing wrote. Petr Mrázek, who is referred to by your evaluation committee, so the helicopter Augusta A109K2 is not certified in category A. You and this helicopter started operations in Olomouc and in the tender procedure in the documentation issued by the Ministry of Health is that the operation will start with helicopters in category A, that is, from 1 January in Olomouc is violated the procurement procedure that the Ministry has given itself because you put in something there you should not have put on. It's really cheaper than helicopters in category A, but it's the same as if we came to an ambulance instead of a Volkswagen and a Mercedes today with a twelve-three. It's cheaper, it's four laps, it's a patient's ride, but it's not the same thing. I ask again how your evaluation committee and how it concluded from what flight manual or other documents contained in ATE's offer, the evaluation committee concluded that Augusta A109K2's helicopter meets the technical qualification assumption that the Ministry of Health has entered into a tender. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u96	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u97	Mr President, honourable Member, you and I have already talked about this, you have visited me at the Ministry. The issue of how it is built today is that the certification of helicopters for those categories has been since some time, some year. Now I'm sorry I haven't said exactly since when. The selection committee was a government selection committee. It wasn't the Minister's selection committee, there were three or four other ministries. And the problem we're dealing with today is really a problem if the helicopter that was made before the helicopter certification started meets or doesn't. It is clear to me that this matter is being dealt with today in the context of the objection or the dispute, it will probably still have some continuation. The only thing I can say at this point is that either some kind of expert opinion, I suppose, will be determined that the company meets - and as far as I know, there's some paper now. The question is, how good is it to be an expert opinion or not. Either the company or their helicopter meets category A, even though it was produced before the certification started, which is about three, four or five years old, I don't know exactly, or doesn't, and in that case the person who applied for it doesn't, of course, meet the condition. But I think it's gonna be a question for an expert to assess how it is. There is nothing more I really can say about this because (a) I did not set out the procurement documents, I repeat it again, and (b) I cannot even speak to the selection committee. In fact, in my 16-year career as director of the hospital, I have never signed a tender in violation of the selection committee's decision, so I will once again accept the results of the selection committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u98	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u99	Thank you again. I just want to point out that the evaluation committee is the second in a short time. The IOHS opened it up probably because it felt or concluded that there had been a breach of the procurement procedure by the evaluation committee. That means, when you specifically signed Olomouc, you signed it against what was entered. I've said that before. We're already starting to spin in circles, and no one wants to cut it. The helicopter Augusta A109K2, which is currently deployed, belongs to the very first one that was produced in this version. He's not in the category we're talking about. There really is a rational way to stand up to this. Now, tell me, how long will this situation last if the UOHS and the other committee and their decisions are dropped again, and then there will be what in Ústí? The supplement is signed for two months and really the memorandum that helicopters will fly there from Pilsen and Prague will not replace it if DSA had to leave after two months.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u100	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u101	This is where the key word really came in. You said it, Mr. DSA. This is crucial because there is a dispute between two operators, between ATE and DSA. At this point, I'd just object to the fact that the UOHS canceled because it's a bad helicopter category. There was an objection because of an unusually low price. Today, driving is at this stage. I repeat, this is a question for an expert. As you rightly said, Augusta's helicopter is a first-generation helicopter. It matches category A, doesn't it? That's just what needs to be solved. If he answers, fine. If he doesn't answer, the problem is the one who signed up because he didn't meet the specifications. Otherwise - it's not until the end of February. It is limited by the amount of funds that are there. Honestly, since we still have short days and they can't fly overnight, I rather think it's gonna be the end of March, and we still have the opportunity to write it down again. So the time when DSA will fly can stretch through until May or June. So I think there's still time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u102	Thank you. Mr Farský, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u103	Vice-President of the Government, according to documents publicly available, the EET procurement, including hardware, was competitive in 2015 for 39 million. 900 thousand. plus hardware costs and annual maintenance, which should have been 95 million in total by 2021. Crowns. This contract was cancelled without any reason by the Director of the Directorate-General for Finance and the same work was awarded out of hand, the costs of which, according to publicly available information, will rise to 895 million during the five years until 2021. The crown, which is almost ten times that. It seems immoral to me at a time when EET is supposed to guard every crown of businessmen and they are costlyly buying their cash registers so that the Ministry spends hundreds of millions of crowns previously collected on taxes. My question and request is: I ask for an explanation of how it is possible that the costs of the EET have increased almost to ten times as compared to the initially competitive contract, and the justification for this negotiation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u104	Thank you, too. The Minister will reply in writing. Mr. Kostřica, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u105	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister of Health, I have a question. I know it's in your gesture at the moment, it wasn't before. I am interested in the anti-smoking law, which is currently in the Senate and which we hope will return to us unchanged. When it was decided on amendments that were rather strict, I was shocked by the opinion of the Ministry of Health at the time, which, in my opinion, should support any law that in its own way restricts or reduces the risk of smoking, whether it is the 16, 18,000 people who are terminally ill here in the Republic or even the 120 billion. I was shocked by the gesture of the then ministry that even such things as the ban on smoking in a car with children under 15 years of age, the ban on smoking in the outer areas of sports facilities and so on as I was unable to understand that I had received a negative opinion on the proposal to abolish smoking in health care establishments. And I know that even in your hospital, led by you, this mouth has been used for many years. It's not like he's always been 100% true, but it just shocked me. I wanted to ask for this reason whether, with your coming to the ministry, such, I don't want to say anti-health, moods would be given certain limits so that we could eventually try to amend some amendments that were not accepted by a ministerial decree or any other measure. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u106	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u107	vážený President. I'm sorry, I misunderstood, so I'll try to reason. So I dare say, I hope that the Senate law will not return to the Chamber of Deputies. For me, the quite important thing is that it will be approved by the Senate, and therefore it will go straight to the signature of the President. However, the truth is that some of these... The law that he was passed here, and we all seem to remember it, was the maximum possible. At this point, the Department of Health is based on the assumption that it is important that the law be, so I accept that there have not been any elements that should be there. And I believe that in the future, as the civilization level of Europe and the Czech Republic will rise, further anti-smoking elements will gradually get into that law. Typically, smoking in cars is really a very good subject. Another subject that you may have mentioned is in the territory of the medical facility. But we have a big problem today that nicotine addiction is quite significant, and for some doctors and health professionals, it is almost absolute. At the hospital, I was dealing with the problem of whether or not this person would be able to do his job without nicotine. But if you're asking me if the trend should be rather relaxing or tightening, I think the trend should be tightening.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u108	If the Member does not wish to speak, we shall proceed. Mr. Kořenko, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, aware that we spoke briefly about this issue yesterday, I must say that, to be sure, I have taken the liberty of preparing this interpellation, which concerns precisely the Otrokovic bypass, because, as you know, some of the city bypasses have been removed from the charging of the motorway network. And I have to say, recently, the city of Otrokovice has also asked twice to visit the members of the government to draw attention to this problem. However, they were not granted and the Ministry did not accept the arguments. I would like to say that, on the basis of the above, city officials and the entire region are convinced that if the D55 section, the northeast Otrokovice bypass, was exempted from charges, there would be a loss of vehicles passing through the city centre and an overloaded vítkovice crossroads, which is overloaded, among other things, because traffic from the incomplete D55, and a number of community-wide benefits, in particular, to reduce accidents, to save fuel, to reduce exhalation in the city's intravilana, to calm down traffic in the city centre, because the said volume of transport, which would shift from the flower crossing, from the I49 to the D55, would take over the road without any difficulty. The current situation is also evidently contrary to the state air quality improvement plan in force in Central Moravia. As far as I know, the purpose of building a bypass was precisely to lighten the city's delay, and it is currently completely suppressed. The Ministry's arguments that it wants to prevent local drivers from avoiding the freeway and driving through the city on the roads of lower classes, fully describe the local situation, and the Ministry does not take them into account in the case of the city of Otrokovice. It is also worth remembering that the northeast bypass - sorry - is still in the test operation. [[Time warning]] I would just like to point out that the reconstruction of the line Otrokovice Zlin will take place, and this will make the situation worse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u110	Thank you and please the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u111	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, we have already discussed this matter with the Member. Unfortunately, I have to say, there have been no sayings that are entirely consistent with what happened. Firstly, I would like to say that some exceptions have been introduced for 2017 in the framework of the time fee for general use of roads with vehicles with a total weight of up to 3.5 tonnes, i.e. within the framework of the time charge. It was a decree. The section of highway 55 near the town of Otrokovice, which is bordered by exits 30 and 32, was not chosen between these sections and it was also because, in the context of a proper inter-ministerial commentary procedure, the Zlín Region did not claim any comment, and to the letter we received from, I think it was Mr Mgr Jaroslav Budík, so unfortunately he arrived at the time of the decree and at the time it was issued. So in the context here I can say that if this comment is valid by Otrokovic and by the Zlín Region, we are ready because this decree opens every year, which means that in the second half of 2017, the negotiation of the amendment of this decree will be possible and that the section, if duly justified, could be added to those sections that will be exempted from the time charge. So I would like to say beyond this interpellation that we have a similar case in the Karlovy Vary Region, on the motorway around Sokolov. So I'm guessing there's gonna be a chance for us to discuss this thing and find a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u112	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u113	Thank you very much. I believe that the Zlín Region and the city of Otrokovice will be ready to cooperate, and I am glad that it has been said here that the situation is solvable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u114	The Minister does not wish to speak. So please, Mrs. Šánová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u115	Thank you for the floor. Hello, Minister. The Funeral Act has been in force for 13 years, and a government amendment to the law is about to take place. In this context, I would like to ask you some of the facts that I believe are not entirely in accordance with this law. How is it possible that in the premises of Thomayer Hospital in Prague 4 - Krč, the Helfi Funeral Service has been operating continuously for many years, which has rented a negotiating office and other premises completely contrary to the above-mentioned law, exactly with the provisions of Section 7? How is it even possible that the Funeral Service of Helfi accepts and releases the deceased to the pathology of this hospital, although the ex lege must not operate because the law directly prohibits it? The explanatory memorandum to this law states that it is not ethical for the funeral service to negotiate burials directly on the premises of the health care provider. Minister, how is it that a number of health care hospitals do not have the prescribed refrigeration and freezing equipment? And if these facilities have, why are they contracted to provide them with funeral services connected to them? They are deliberately for easier bypassing the law because they do not directly provide funeral services. An example of such practices is, among other things, Bulovka Hospital in Prague 8. You are aware that such a hospital receives payments from health insurance companies for the performance associated with handling the deceased and receives additional payments for some rental of the facility. In this procedure, however, such a hospital is deprived of income for the storage of the deceased in the morgue after 48 hours from the orderers of burial, which may be higher than the rental. I have listed only some aspects of the violation of the Funeral Law, which, however, lead to the possibility, and I believe, also to create a corrupt environment between health care providers and funeral services. Plus, with any lack of ethics. [[Time.]] I therefore ask you, Minister, to what extent you are familiar with this issue and whether you intend to do something about it in the near future. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u116	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u117	Mr President, Madam, it has two levels: the plane of the ethics and the plane of the law on burial. The funeral bill is more of a problem for my colleague, Mrs Šlechtová, so I don't think I'm going to give a full comment on what's in that law or what's not. But now we need to talk about ethics. To some extent, you're right. I dealt with this problem in Motol about ten or twelve years ago when I became director. There was a funeral service right on the premises of the hospital. We canceled her rent. Tonight's the funeral service in the street under the hospital where I can't do anything about it. So as far as I'm concerned, it's also ethically questionable. On the other hand, what you're saying is true that health insurance pays 48 hours, then costs go to the expense of the person who orders the funeral, and sometimes it costs the hospitals, because they're huge claims, which are then settled. So sometimes the cost of enforcement is far greater than the revenue. So it's like the distinction between economics isn't there. However, I admit that, from an ethical point of view, this is a problem, specifically in hospitals where children die, which is the case with Thomayerův Hospital. So I'm sure I'll be talking to them on this subject. It's right there in the front door on Boulovka. That's where they have it. And I'm sure I'll talk to them about this. But reality will be the only one. If it's in the objects - at Bulovka I feel that there is an additional problem that the objects are the capital of Prague, so maybe it isn't even Bulovka, but it is organized by Prague. And in the case of Thomayerův's hospital, I'm pretty sure the moment they place it, I'm sure I'll be talking to the director on this subject, so I'm sure it'll show up right next to the street. But, you know, I don't think there's any legal solution to ethics. This is what people should have in them, and they should be consensually shared, that some things aren't done, but... but... [[Minister sighed]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u118	The Member does not wish to ask another question, so please Mr Grospič.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to ask Mrs Marksová in the context of the question of the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs and concerning the interpretation and procedure of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs concerning the provisions of the valid wording of the Labour Code, Act No. 262/2006 Coll., specifically § 322 para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. [[unintelligible]] I have been asked several questions, including the Czech, Moravia and Silesia Trade Union, that these agreements have been concluded, but after many years, almost over ten years, they are not adequately fulfilled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and for some trade unions this slippage, which has always been reciprocal, has been for four or more months. I would therefore like to know the answer from the Minister of Labour, which leads to this by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, how he intends to proceed in the following year and how quickly he intends to compare these costs within the framework of the supervision of labour safety within trade unions and valid contracts for the last calendar year.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u120	Thank you. Mr. Rais, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u121	Hello, Mr President, Members and Ministers. I'd like to continue the series of questions about Secretary Marksová. I would like to intersect her in the case of medical examinations of university staff working on one of the agreements on non-employment work, i.e. the so-called. DPP and DPČ. I have been approached by representatives of the academic community with a request to interpel you on this matter. Some of the university personnel were trained for upcoming changes in the Labour Code and, among other things, they came to the schools with information that work visits should also apply to employees working in the form of a work agreement or work agreement, particularly in connection with the employer's new duty to protect workers from stress. The information raised considerable concern in the academic community, as it would mean a large increase in bureaucratic burden, a considerable financial cost in the already-strengthened and underfunded budgets of universities and, in some cases, major obstacles to the fulfilment of the duties imposed on higher education institutions, e.g. cooperation with foreign experts in the assessment of qualification work, etc. I would therefore like to ask you to clarify, or express exclusion and guarantee, that occupational examinations should not apply in future to university staff working in the form of a work agreement or a work agreement. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u122	Thank you, too. Mr. Holeček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u123	Dear Mr. chronically absent minister. On December 8, 2016, you said about the informer website to the EET, which I personally consider to be the largest cesspool: When you put into proportion the number of receipts issued, which are 19 million to date, against 700 warnings from citizens, it is a negligible number. But now you're telling everyone you didn't know about the website. Are you lying again, Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u124	Thank you. Mr. Procházka, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u125	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, I was approached by the head of the school farm in Chebsko, which is a contribution organization of the Karlovy Vary Region. Separate school supplies were excluded last year from the possibility of applying for a national grant title to support agricultural and forestry entities, the aim of which is to modernise the equipment of training centres by means of teaching aids to enable pupils and students to acquire the basic professional skills necessary for the pursuit of the future profession. However, I would remind you that high schools with a school farm could have received a subsidy. In addition, acquired teaching aids from this grant title must be intended solely for teaching purposes and must not be used for economic activity. This is not entirely logical, because secondary agricultural schools or school farms use subsidies to purchase teaching aids such as a tractor with a plough, which is subsequently used to cultivate fields during teaching, but that means that they are already doing economic activity because they eventually harvest and sell crops. Although shopping aids are primarily used for teaching, the school can also use them for economic activity and it is difficult to separate them. And if that happens, they don't meet the conditions of the grant title. Therefore, Minister, I ask you whether you are also considering creating a grant title for separate school goods, and whether you would also consider changing the conditions so that school supplies can be used effectively in the normal operation of the school farm. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u126	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u127	Thank you. Mr President, dear colleagues, fellow Members, honourable Members. I would just like to briefly answer your question that, above all, it is necessary to realise that the founders of secondary schools or school goods or forests are mainly regions. Another gesturer in the field of education and, where appropriate, grant aid is the Ministry of Education. We have entered this issue de facto as an entity, or as a ministry, which would not have any interest in this in terms of both establishment and gesture activities. But when we look at the relatively desperate state of secondary vocational education in the whole agricultural sector, not only agricultural schools, but forestry schools, vineyards etc., I decided to change this situation in some way positively. The first thing that has been made possible here for two years, where I even had to deal with the European Commissioner for Agriculture to defend our setting up of the Rural Development Programme, is that every school farm can ask for investment support, whether it is cow, pig farm, meat processing and the like, from the Rural Development Programme, where it is open to all school farms. And there's co-financing at 40 percent. So there's no limit to the use of the aid, or the investment in relation to teaching, or in relation to the economic and economic activity of the school farm. Perhaps many school property do not know this, or do not know it by some of the representatives on the outskirts in charge of education. I am repeatedly reminding them that in February we will now have negotiations with all the deputy generals in charge of secondary vocational education to recapitulate this. That's, I'd say, the basic change that occurred against the previous period, and here's the money that's quite large that the school property can take. Our national grant title, COP 21 - Training Centre, the grant title was 21, because it was 21 in the order, which we set up to meet the acute requirements based on discussions with schools, when school directors and directors come to us and say: we have desperate equipment in laboratories, desperate equipment in workshops, driving a driving school, tractors that are 35 years old. And they are really primarily those school aids that serve for practical teaching, not for economic activity. So we've allocated 50 million crowns to these selected 30 schools for these specific things. I'm not ruling out that in the future, if we see that, say, we've put out the emergency fire at the level of the technical equipment of the teaching aids, we're gonna loosen up somehow. But today the demand for these things is such that the 50 million crowns are far from enough. And I will briefly comment on what schools have been selected because schools that teach some agrarian fields in the Czech Republic are more than 180. We can't cover that, and frankly, we're not interested. I have a personal interest in supporting here as the Ministry of School, which will ensure high quality. This means that we approached the regions, we approached non-governmental organisations in the field of agriculture, or those relevant areas such as veterinary, gardening and so on, and above all on the basis of documents from the regions, we went the way that we said that in each region we wanted one such centre and one such school to be supported, and then, given the specifics of the regions, the production specifics, the history and quality of those schools, we assessed which schools we would include. There was a selection committee composed of representatives of our Ministry, the Ministry of Education, representatives of NGOs and on the basis of the documents of these regions we evaluated that it was the selected 30 schools with at least one in each region. We're not entirely assuming that we should expand the school selection, but I'm not ruling it out. We're ready to have a debate when someone comes in with a school that really has a significant added value, and we're ready to have a debate about it, and we're going to put it there. We're ready if our financial resources show it, too, from savings. MZ will increase the CZK 50 million for 2017 or even increase it. So that's the status of this grant title. That's as much as I can tell you right now.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u128	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u129	I just want to thank you for the answer. I'm fine with it, and I'm sure I'll continue to interpret it, and I'll be in touch with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u130	We're going to continue with another interpellation, this is Mrs Semelová's interpellation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u131	Dear Minister, a group of artists from the Academy of Fine Arts have pointed out in recent days through the media, petitions and documents on the situation in the limited company Short Film Prague and ask the Ministry of Culture to take place. What's going on? The former State enterprise Short Film was privatized in the 1990s, thereby losing control of a significant part of our cultural heritage. The new joint-stock company Krátký film Praha acquired approximately 50,000 items, camera negatives and film copies, as well as unique authors' puppets from Czech animated films, the author of which is Jiří Trnka, Hermína Týrlová or Karel Zeman. I say approximately because there was no inventory of assets during the privatisation process, and the private owner started selling out film puppets and extracting the archives without taking anything away from the sale of broadcasting rights to the State Cinema Fund. According to published information The Short Film Prague has produced nothing for years, sold only broadcasting rights, its customers include public television, for example, without taking any part back into production specifically to the State Cinema Fund. I would therefore like to ask: As Minister of Culture, do you have an overview of the state in which the archive is located, the conditions in which the collections are stored and whether they receive the necessary professional care? Second: Do you know how many original puppets from animated films and fairy tales were sold out by the current owner and how many are left in the archive? And three: Are you preparing a change in legislation that would allow the inventory of the Short Film archive to be carried out, the precise specification of copyright and manufacturing rights and which will ensure state control over our cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u132	Thank you and please the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. The introduction is to mention that the Ministry of Culture is, among other things, a central body of the state administration for art. As regards the care of the national film heritage, since 1992 the decision of the Minister of Culture has established the National Film Archive as a state contribution organization of the Ministry of Culture. Consequently, this decision was based on legal provisions. The mission of the National Film Archive is to build, protect, restore, scientific processing, make available and use of national film heritage, audiovisual archives, including collections of contemporary documentation, collections of archives. It is also a specialized archive for audiovisual archive according to Act No. 499/2004 Coll., on Archiving and File Service and related responsibilities. [[16.50 hours]] However, in the case of the joint-stock company Short Film Prague, the situation is completely different. The Ministry of Culture cannot intervene from its position in any way in the activities of private entities, and therefore cannot in any way supervise the archives of the Short Film or ensure that it is made available. The Ministry of Culture does not have an inventory of assets, which after the transformation from the state organization in the early 1990s switched to the company Short Film. The right of management with original carriers of cinematographic works produced in the organization Short Film between 28 August 1945 and 31 December 1964 is subject to the National Film Archives Act. However, the short film Prague refused to recognise this right to the National Film Archive and withheld material substrates. On the basis of this different position on the interpretation of the law, these two entities were together in legal proceedings which were subsequently concluded by mutual agreement. They are currently being communicated within the framework of standard business relationships. It is therefore possible to broadcast the films in question. The Ministry of Culture is aware of the great cultural importance of films and other subjects that originally belonged to the State organization Short Film within the Czechoslovak State Film, but the Ministry of Culture does not have the legal possibility to take inventory of private property, which, for example, calls for petitions from the end of last year called Where is Maxipes Fík? Any legislative change would lead to intervention in the legitimate interests of private individuals in this respect. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u134	Thank you, too. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u135	Dear Minister, I understand legislation and interference, but this is indeed a cultural matter, and those groups that draw attention to it expect the Ministry of Culture to do something. One of those questions I asked was how they deal with the money. And here I think there should be some control. They had revenues, now I mean the joint stock company Short Film Prague, revenues - year 2007 13.5 million, 2008 23 million, 2009 99 million, year later 24 million, 11.5 million, 13 million, 2013 14 million, 2014 20 million. etc., etc. In that case, I think that this joint stock company should act firmly towards the state and the state component, or the Ministry of Culture's body should help in this way. [[Attention on time.]] First, so that cultural heritage is not lost, and secondly, so that the proceeds are actually used for what they should be for.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u136	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u137	Yes, I agree that this concerns a large and important part of our cultural heritage. The National Film Archive is trying at least to cooperate, as I said in my previous contribution, within the framework of contracts which were concluded under legal proceedings. As I said, we cannot enter into private relations directly. However, through cooperation with the National Film Archives, there is an interest in making this part of the cultural heritage available to the public, because it is indeed an extremely valuable part that is still highly valued in the world and today. And the Czech Republic or Czech works in this case even apply as exemplary for a number of European countries. As far as finances are concerned, I agree with you that those profits should be invested back in development. But there are some very limited legislative options here. This can only be done on the basis of those contracts which are and which, according to my information, do not work badly, but unfortunately, the possibility is largely limited by the legislation in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u138	Thank you, too. Please, Mrs Matušovská.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues. Dear Minister, I would like to address you on the issue of railway development. Do you find it customary for SŽDC, which falls under your strategy, to decide who will be allocated capacity on the Prague - Brno route ten days before publishing the timetable graphics? Do you think that's standard procedure? Similarly, how will the Ministry of Transport stand up and how will it contribute to the development or maintenance of the network of rail transport on the line Most - Plzeň? Won't regular railway users who primarily use trains for commuting to work pay for this? Isn't the network effect of rail transport disappearing? Lately, passengers on the railroad have returned. Although we may like or dislike competition on the Prague - Ostrava route, where trains run from different carriers every 20 minutes, but what about here in Mosteck? Isn't that a completely different situation? So what concept does the Ministry want to continue? I mean, thanks to your actions, a citizen has to deal with where and how to buy a ticket. Will the State try to establish a system for the recognition of travel documents? Shouldn't the Ministry of Transport first ensure ticket portability on subsidized connections, and then settle the selection procedures for individual R-type lines? Or does the Ministry of Transport want to pick up what can be done for private carriers first and then deal with the disaster as it once did after the collapse of the Great Britain railway system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u140	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u141	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Matušovská through Mr President, no, we do not. We certainly do not want and will not be questioning any raisins, and we do not want to deal with the situation that the United Kingdom has dealt with after wild liberalization. However, in answer to your questions, I will start from your last complaint regarding the line R25 Plzeň - Most. You are asking whether the concept of the Ministry of Transport is intended to ensure everything possible for private carriers. I would like to say that the Ministry of Transport has a public service contract with a carrier other than the Czech Railways only on one line, i.e. on the line Plzeň - Most, which is one of the least profitable lines in the order of the Ministry of Transport. And here I would say, it is one of the lines that the Czech Government has already decided with its resolution that it will be opening gradually, so we are following the government resolution here. The provision of services on line R25 Plzeň - Most has undergone a challenging process, which ultimately resulted in a contract with GW Train Regio. In November 2015, the Ministry published provisional measures in the Official Journal of the European Union. On 4 February 2016, a notice was published on the details of the contracts entered into directly. No objections were raised to this notification. This process was absolutely standard and led to clear savings of public funds in the amount of about 8 million compared to the current contract with the Czech Railways. CZK annually while maintaining an identical range of services provided with a partly higher quality of the services provided. I agree with you that achieving tariff integration is logical and effective. The tariff integration or interchangeability of tickets may also be feasible in practice, which shows not only foreign examples, but also an example of the operation of carriers in the Czech Republic on the track Sokolov - Kraslice or Trutnov - Svoboda nad Úpou. The Ministry of Transport is taking steps to support the activities of carriers in this matter. From the information available to our office, it is known that GW Train Regio actively sought tariff integration in the case of the R25 Plzeň - Most line, and it is also prescribed by a contract. And our office will continue to strive to support tariff integration. I will add that it is unfortunately the Czech Railways that rejected tariff integration more or less and were not willing to agree on it. We, for the Ministry, have said that we will actively enter the process, and we are entering and preparing steps. I was pleased to read that all of a sudden the Czech Railways said that they were not against tariff integration. So it's good news and hopefully we'll be able to find a quick solution. [[17,00 hours]] You also mentioned the allocation of capacity to the Prague - Brno line. The allocation is made by the Railway Infrastructure Administration, which progresses in the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and progresses in this case according to pre-known criteria. These are published in a runway statement issued 10 months before the timetable expires. This material sets out the rules under which the allocation is to proceed. This process wasn't standard, either. Personally, I can imagine that the allocation in the future could and should be decided earlier, but this too is laid down by clear and pre-published rules in the declaration of the runway. From my position as Minister of Transport, I can only say that the rules must be followed, and I have no information that the allocation, or SŽDC, is not respected. Madam, tariff integration is effective and necessary, and our office is ready to support the carrier in this activity. When allocating the capacity of the transport route, it is essential to follow clear pre-known rules set out in the runway declaration, which has been complied with. If I may sum up, we want to continue in principle according to the Government's resolution. Our interest is, of course, to support the Czech Railways. And I want to say here, as a few times, that the Ministry of Transport is ready to give the Czech Railways long-distance transport in the framework of the public service directly. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] We will continue to discuss this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u142	Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u143	So, Minister, don't you think tariff integration was to be dealt with at a time when liberalization began to be discussed?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u144	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u145	I'm sure she did. It was supposed to start sometime in 2008 to 2010, when these things were discussed. Unfortunately, it didn't. I'm trying to make these things parallel. I'm sure it's okay with the opening. We will soon come up with a concept where we will replace the taste of České dráhy by some decision of the government or ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u146	Mrs Strnadlová is not present, in which case, please, Mr Bendl.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u147	Thank you for the floor. He is not present in the same way as the Minister of Agriculture, who has abandoned us again, and is not normally present at the oral discussions. However, I will ask the questions and try to use the two minutes I have because I have more input on the Minister. But he really doesn't go to work much. I was promised by his colleague, who asked me what the questions were about, and I politely replied to her that the Ministry of Agriculture would respond. First question. Three years ago, at the beginning of the parliamentary term, I interrogated the Minister of Agriculture on dealing with the situation of abuse of large animals in the Czech Republic, because veterinarians often have no way of dealing with such a non-Rudovic question. Where to with them? Animals that are abused, a veterinarian does not have a chance to solve them, he does not have a chance to remove the animal, remove it and ensure conditions for its quality life until the owner either makes amends or improves the situation so that the animals can live in a reasonable environment. That is why I ask what has happened in three years and when a situation that is not good changes in this area. At the same time, Minister, I would like to ask that the forests of the Czech Republic want to invest in Romania and buy about one billion crowns of forests in this area. I want to know whether this is true or not, and if so, what reasons lead you to do so. And the last one. How many applications for agrienvi support for 2015 have not been completed to date? Because the companies that requested cannot even apply for aid from 2016 in the SAPS area and have huge financial problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u148	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Next, Mrs Pecková will speak with her intervention and will interpel the Minister of Health Miroslav Ludvík. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u149	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before Christmas, the House rejected my amendment to the Criminal Victims Act, which imposed an obligation to inform the victim, among other things, about the change of order of protective treatment from constitutional to outpatient treatment. That brings me to my question. Ordered protective constitutional treatment falls under the Ministry of Justice while outpatient under the Ministry of Health. Here's the problem that the state doesn't have a network of outpatients and the given released, or a patient, a client, or we can say the perpetrator, is actually getting into the private sphere. However, she does not want it, nor does she have any connection to the probation and mediation services. This one actually finds itself in a vacuum, and they are often perpetrators and serious crimes, and any control of their treatment is not really possible. They are therefore still a threat to society, because there are often interruptions of treatment that would prevent them to a certain extent from continuing criminal activity. I know there are two resorts here that there's been an unfortunate division. I ask the Minister what direction the solution will take, because I see this as very alarming. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u150	Thank you, too, Madame. I'll ask the Minister to answer your question. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u151	Thank you. Mr President, Madam President, I am afraid I will be brief. At this point, there is an inter-ministerial commission, or a working group of the Ministry of Justice, with which the Ministry of Health systematically cooperates, but basically the problem is, as I understand from your question, that we will probably not build a system of state outpatient specialists. That is what I fear in today's situation, when in the field of psychiatry it is very difficult to find new psychiatrists. Through general health insurance, we can motivate psychiatrists to get into practice, but I can't imagine building a network of state ambulances. To be honest, the second issue, which falls under the Ministry of Justice, is the change of protective treatment from constitutional to outpatient treatment, which is again a matter of court, once again does not fall under the Ministry of Health. Informing that someone has changed treatment or has been changed from a protective constitutional to an outpatient is not even a health service. Frankly, once again, it is problematic how much it falls under the Ministry of Health's problem. However, if you want to know the direction in which this whole issue is going, I'm going to have a written report sent to you, because I'm going to let you know which direction the inter-ministerial task force we have with the Ministry of Justice is going.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u152	Thank you. Please, ma'am.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u153	Thank you very much. Of course, I'd like to get acquainted with the written report. I find it most unfortunate why the outpatient section falls under the Ministry of Health, which is not really linked to the probation and mediation service. If outpatient treatment fell under the Ministry of Justice as well as constitutional treatment, the solution would probably be easier to find within one resort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u154	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u155	I'm a little afraid I may not be able to accommodate you in this regard, because it's just a health service. That's outpatient medical, and it's still paid. If another resort were willing to devote part of its budget to strengthening general health insurance, I would be happy to do so, but nevertheless this is really a health service performed by doctors, so I'm afraid it will stay, or it will definitely remain under the Ministry of Health. However, I repeat again, I will certainly inform you in which direction this problem is addressed precisely because of this created inter-ministerial working group.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u156	Please, Mrs Pekarová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u157	Dear Minister, absent minister, about a third of job applicants in the Czech Republic are interested in part-time work. However, according to Eurostat, only less than 6 percent of employees are currently working in this scheme. It is one of the worst statistics throughout Europe, we are only on the 30th place and in this ranking, which compares precisely the number of people working part-time, only Macedonia and Bulgaria are behind us. We are still hearing over and over that support for families with children, especially small ones, is a priority for this government. In particular, parents of young children would be helped to better reconcile work with care for children. And just shortened and flexible jobs can go across the line from this alignment. However, in three years' time, you have not submitted a single proposal that would support part-time work in any way. When TOP 09 submitted this proposal, the government rejected it. In this proposal, we tried to correct injustice in the payment of health insurance for part-time workers. Madam Secretary, do you really intend to help families with children by supporting short-time jobs? Of course, I know about the proposed measure in the amendment to the Labour Code, i.e. the employer's new obligation to give written reasons for which he did not accept part-time employees, but I am sure that this will not be a really significant aid. At the beginning of your government, you were talking about changes in contributions that would help part-timers. But ever since then, it's just the silence of the path. Thank you in advance for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u158	Thank you. Mr Karamazov, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u159	Dear Minister, in the context of the recent presidential elections in the United States of America, the role of NATO and Europe's readiness to defend itself are increasingly mentioned. The incoming President of the United States, Donald Trump, is not hiding the view that Europe should take a much greater share in defending its borders. Let me therefore ask you how the Czech Republic is prepared to fulfil its security role and when defence spending can be expected to reach a minimum of 2% of VAT. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u160	Thank you, too. Mr Soukup, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u161	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our ranks are thin. I would say, Mr President, that it is trivial, these interpelations, when I am to speak to the empty seats of ministers. Anyway, I'll do it. Today's interview gave me the impetus to an article titled Elementary School in Velká Němčice exorcising children's head with multiculturalism and enthusiasm for migration. It says something about bulletin boards that enthusiastically promote multiculturalism, about a teacher who enthusiastically tells children: We should accept every fugitive, they are peaceful people who do not want to hurt us etc. I admit, if Minister Chovanec were here, I'd have it checked out because the article came from a suspicious source. Nevertheless, I approached the headmaster of the school through one of the voters. And his answer. The information given in that article is true, and he doesn't actually see anything wrong with it, anything abnormal. It does nothing but follow the binding framework education programme for basic education. And I've read the document. Article 6.4 provides for multicultural education. If it were formulated as an education for tolerance to other cultures, races, opinions, I wouldn't object, but since when is multicultural education an official state doctrine or something like that? I wouldn't accept it anyway. The concept of multiculturalism involves something else. Thoughtful and political current. I ask: Is it the task of the school to form a worldview in children? Isn't that real brainwashing? And I'm going to ask the second question at the same time. Madam Secretary is here, so I'll wait for him to answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u162	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u163	Mr President, honourable Members, I certainly have to answer the question of the Member very clearly that to the so-called. brainwashing or the spread of multiculturalism as an ideal, political, civil opinion does not occur within our schools. I repeatedly encounter the dissemination of these ideas, e.g. through social networks. I therefore understand that MEPs can be concerned about what is happening in our schools. I would like to emphasise explicitly that there is no such thing as there is nothing like that in our schools, such as the spread of Islam, Islamism, or even its promotion. I also strongly reject that. As far as multicultural education is concerned, which is, of course, something else, the Member will probably accept. It is true that this is one of the cross-cutting topics in the framework education programme for basic education, but I note since 2005, i.e. far from the various events that disturb our citizens. That is why I will take advantage of the opportunity here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies and read what this means under the framework education programme. In the area of knowledge, skills and skills, it provides basic knowledge of various ethnic and cultural groups living in the Czech European society. It develops skills to recognize racial intolerance, helps prevent xenophobia. It provides knowledge of some basic concepts such as culture, ethnicity, identity, discrimination, xenophobia, racism, nationality, intolerance. In terms of attitudes and values, it helps pupils to realize their own identity, to be themselves, to reflect their own sociocultural background. It stimulates, influences and corrects the actions and value system of pupils and teaches them to perceive differences as an opportunity, not as a source of conflict. They teach pupils to perceive themselves as a citizen who actively participates in the formation of relationships with society. The selection and implementation of a given thematic heading, which is therefore in our framework education programme since 2005, can be significantly influenced by mutual agreement, of course, between teachers, teachers and pupils, teachers and parents. So once again, I want to reassure Members that the education system, or even the Ministry of Education, does not promote multiculturalism in any way, such as perhaps some ideal opinion or God forbid, state policy in the sense of influencing a non-political and educational environment. And I stress that the framework education programme for multicultural education, which has been present since 2005, does not, in my view, do anything like this either. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u164	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u165	However, I was expecting it to be like this, I would say, deflecting some enthusiastic follower of other ideas that are beneficial today. Nevertheless, I would ask myself a question. I always thought that the school was to equip the future citizen with the necessary knowledge and also to equip him with the ability to navigate the world today, which is fine. Here I would admit that dating other cultures is beneficial. No, he didn't. That's pretty obvious. But why is the framework education programme for basic education not even in one sentence, and I have read it carefully, does not, for example, impose training for patriotism. Is that a forbidden word?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u166	Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u167	As far as patriotism is concerned, in my opinion, that is definitely not a forbidden word. And I know that it is in the context of multicultural education, as is included in the framework education programme, and I have also read it here, of course, that the self-awareness of children towards the sociocultural environment from which they come, including the awareness of nationality, is strengthened, and that is, of course, expressed in other words, by strengthening patriotism. [[17.20 hours]] I, I confess, Mr President, did not quite understand the point you were expecting. I mentioned here at the beginning, quite frankly and frankly, that I myself am sometimes constipated by what one can read on social networks. I wouldn't be happy if something like this happened to you. Because from where I'm standing, all the fun ends here, and all the different stickers, lashings, etc. Just because I don't stand for opinions, I'd say extremist, so that the Minister of Education is accused of spreading Islamism. They're lies. Unfortunately, I have run out of patience, and I have also published that I will be systematically turning to law enforcement authorities, because there is no other way to respond to such attacks. I'm not so sorry from my point of view or the ministry, I'm not narrow-minded, I'm sorry from the school's point of view. Schools deserve security, peace of mind, education, teaching, as you mentioned, and I think we should not add oil to the fire where there is no fire. I've met myself, and you, too, maybe through social networks, are being pillaged by a primary school from the Zlín Region, which is represented here as a kind of source of spread of Islamism. I would just like to say to the Members here that this was an embarrassing education in the sense that there are different religions and comparisons. So if we want to deny that there is Islam, maybe I can give a kind of parallel to patriotism - yes, there can be a list of forbidden words, but I don't think it's about thinking and education. [[Time warning]]
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u168	Thank you and please Mr Hovorka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u169	Thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, in the Czech Republic a number of pharmacies will not get to certain medicines and this is a result of the fact that our supervision of competition is not working well. In many cases, manufacturers, distributors and pharmacies or pharmacies are connected, and either some pharmacies do not receive a cure at all, or they get it with such a premium that it is multiple or much more expensive than in related pharmacies. In fact, the existence of a channel in Czech form, the DTP channel, which means deliveries to certain pharmacies, often makes no sense to compete for a medicinal product, because there is only one supplier who supplies at the maximum price set by the insurance company. I would like to ask what changed in the case of the Drug Act, when the previous Minister gave his consent to Mr Běhounek's amendment, when this amendment brings the possibility that it would be an obligation to deliver the medicine to all pharmacies within 48 hours, within two days, and when the law came back from the Senate in two months, the Ministry, under your direction, said that the law in that form was wrong and that the 48-hour period must be replaced by a deadline in the foreseeable future. I would like to ask you what has really changed, that the proposal is completely annulled and comes in a completely different form. [[Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u170	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u171	Mr President, Mr Member, I did not really get to the law until he basically passed the Chamber of Deputies and came to the Senate. But it is true that this amendment was tabled through the chair of the Senate's Health Committee, Mr Koliba. From my point of view, there's a 48-hour mix-up, and now I quote, the exact time is for a time without undue delay. It is not in the foreseeable future, it is there without undue delay, and it is in Czech law terminus technicus. Basically, it means as soon as possible. I have one thing to say. Me from my practice because I also worked in the pharmaceutical industry and, after all, my own wife is a pharmacist, and I always wondered if I should report a conflict of interest with a wife who works with one of the distributors, albeit only part-time, but it is really better than 48 hours without undue delay, because drugs are not produced in a regular way. They're made so-called In a reactor way, which means that, for example, production, I'm going to give an example, the parallel isn't running nonstop on some line where there's always new and new falling, but there's always a certain batch of medicine in that reactor, and then it's all cleaned up and another drug is being made. So now I can set a classic example. We have been informed by the manufacturer of Tamiflu that if we do not prohibit his reexport or export at this time, the nearest will be available in six months. And if you put 48 hours in there, it's basically an unbearable law. So we put it there without undue delay, and it's, of course, up to a possible investigation, whether the company kept it or didn't keep it, but there are very fat fines if it didn't keep it. To mention that the Office of Competition Protection doesn't work so well in our country, it's probably a slightly different way, not for me. And there's one more thing I'd like to say. The drug bill, as he's back in the House today, he's primarily supposed to deal with the reporters. He is not supposed to deal with whether the Czech market is properly supplied, while there are your mentioned direct to pharmaceuticals, or direct distribution channels, there are links between pharmacies and some pharmacies and distribution chains. This is a broad issue. This law should have dealt with reports, i.e. basically that there would be no shortage of drugs on the Czech market due to the reexport, not because of, say, non-competing negotiations. So I'm even having the Ministry process the analysis without undue delay, and I want it here after the drug is being lectured here in the House, or the laws are going to be discussed, which I suspect on January 31st, if I'm not mistaken, I really want to have the analysis here to show that it's better than 48 hours without undue delay.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u172	Thank you, Minister. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u173	Thank you for your explanation, but I would like to say that you have certainly consulted this matter with the Competition Authority and you have certainly received an opinion on this. You have allegedly leaned towards one of the three ways to deal with this situation. I asked the former minister before the third reading if there was any position from the UOHS, and he told me that there was no problem and that there was no problem in principle. Suddenly it turns out that the problem is, and the law returns in a completely different form. So I'm sure I'd be happy to get an opinion from the UOHS to be clear. And I'm glad you understand pharmacy well. If you look at how the IOHS discussed, for example, complaints from the Czech Medical Chamber that Clexan is not supplied to her, and as the IOHS has decided that this medicine is fundamentally interchangeable, then you must acknowledge that this office did not make the right decision and that there is probably something not working here. I know the problem is mostly reexports, but if you look at the information from SÚKL, they don't report pharmacies, but especially distributors.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u174	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u175	You're right to some extent, but the pharmacy has a distribution license, so it's caused by this. In fact, there he dealt with the ÚOHS, or the essential consultation was on the petrification of market shares, which the law essentially set out. In other words, if a pharmacy or a distributor were to die, as if it were not possible to transfer the market share that will be created there again to someone else. So the wording that's there today is more flexible. So today we have four major distributors on the market, and if any of them left the Czech market, they will actually be able to theoretically dismantle other distributors. The question is whether the ÚOHS would allow it. With Clexan, it's an eternal fight between two companies, whether Clexane is better or the other competitive means I'd rather not name here. It's a debate. Their representatives even fought once in my hospital. I remember. So the debate on whether Clexane is better - I'd rather not even take a stand on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u176	Thank you. Mr. Mackovík's man, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u177	Thank you again and good day. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would once again like to follow up on the previous interpellation concerning the air rescue service, and I would also like to take the time to say one crucial thing here. If the Antimonopoly Office is saving the price, the price is related to what I have already talked to here, and this is primarily the deployment of a particular helicopter in a particular category. Once again, both trabant and mercedes are German cars, but at the same price, you can't buy them. So if an operator runs a helicopter that doesn't fit any equipment, some parameters, it's obviously cheaper, and it's cheaper to operate. Not for nothing the Air Service Police of the Czech Republic did not acquire Augusta, but the helicopters EC 135, which also have private operators. So, Minister, I'm going to move on to the questions I'm interested in. I received an answer this week from the Prime Minister to the issue of concept after 2020. Now, who will be the bearer of the concept? Who will submit the main terms, the parameters, the requirements of the concept? It's gonna be a health department, defense, interior. When I read the letters from the interior when I read the letters from the defense, the pilots are missing, the technique is missing, the training is missing, the medical technical staff is missing. Now who will be the guarantor and who will specify? After 2020, if we should only start training those pilots, we need to find training for the next three or four years, because the existing pilots will be four years older in four years, and many are on the border that legislation will allow them to fly in the LZS. That means who will be the cornerstone of the LZS concept, which resort? When, then, who will submit this to the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u178	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u179	Mr President, honourable Member. I'm gonna pick up a little bit on what I said earlier. On this subject, there is now an inter- resolution working group in which there is internal, defence, transport and health. Frankly, there is, of course, a problem of how to organise it, if it is to be a state enterprise or another form, a state organisation. What tasks would this state enterprise have if it were a state enterprise or if it were a state contribution organisation. jaký he should be doing. This actually results in tasks relating to the defence of the State, the security situation of the State, etc. etc. You're absolutely right. I know how many helicopter licenses there are in the Czech Republic today, or how many helicopter pilots there are in the Czech Republic. That's how they count on units of hundreds, tops. So I know the problem. I still understand that there will be a big problem in the fact that defense has somewhat different tasks for helicopter pilots than it has e.g. The police. The police are covering up a little bit with those army rescuers. And really a little bit on the other hand, pilots have to fly a certain amount of hours to qualify. This is all the stuff that's being discussed right now. The concept is submitted to the government and it is the task of the Ministry of Health, so it will be submitted by the Ministry of Health. I'd really like to use the data that will be available at least for the first quarter, I've already told your colleague, and we need to work them in some way. So I'm sure it's going to be in this parliamentary term. It'll be this first semester. And the bearer of the task is the Ministry of Health. So the concept to the government will be submitted by the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u180	Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u181	I thank you for this answer. I just want to remind you that in January 2016, your predecessor, Minister Němeček, presented the terms of the tender to the Health Committee of the Chamber of Deputies on the choice of the operator of the LZS. The House Health Committee agreed to it, and then it fell apart on the government, and it actually started kicking in, and in May it was just declared tender, and the whole thing fell apart. And I haven't heard from the Department of Health all this time that anyone would stand up for what was presented to your department. That means if you guys put something back on the table that's gonna get dropped, and then you don't hear anything, it's not gonna move. That means if you're going to put it on the table, if you're going to stand up for it, or if you're going to give up any one-time pressure from the government. Because that's how it was in the tender that we've been dealing with all this time. That means, to the current tender for the current operation of the LZS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u182	Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u183	I just want to separate two things. She one thing is a concept and the other thing is what the machine will use that possible operator. I think there are two very different things. So the first is a concept that describes who, how and under what conditions. And the second thing is, I suppose, an open tender. Because if it's a matter of state, it's going to be in the order of billions. After that, it will go through a tender, where some conditions are laid down. At least that's what I think it should look like. At least that's where I'll lead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u184	Please, Mrs. Šánová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u185	Well, hello again. Madam Secretary, once again, I'm talking about the Funeral Law. Funeral services may only be carried out on the basis of a concession instrument. As far as I know, there are at least two secondary schools in which students can study the field of burial, which is completed by the graduation exam. I would like to know why funeral operators do not have to have at least this secondary education under the Funeral Act and the ability to perform activities is replaced by practice in the field or expert representative. And my other problem. I am interested in how it is possible that funeral service is operating in the premises of Charles University, specifically the Faculty of Medicine, e.g. in the 1st Faculty of Medicine of Charles University in the General Faculty Hospital in Prague. How is it possible that Charles University makes it possible to conduct funeral services in school health establishments, although these ex-leges are not allowed to operate there, because the law directly prohibits this in its provisions § 7. From the explanatory note to this law, it is said that it is not ethical. In addition, the university completely in violation of the above mentioned law rents cooling, respectively. freezers in their premises and refers the survivors to specific funeral services. For example, the Pegasus Funeral Service, which has a contract to rent a morgue at a school facility. Madam Secretary, don't you feel that this process and your department are helping to violate or circumvent the Funeral Act leading to the creation of a corrupt environment? Whether you know of these unfair practices or do you not know how you intend to deal with them in the near future? How are you going to deal with them? Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u186	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u187	Mr President, honourable Members, about the second question. Faculty hospitals fall within the competence of the Ministry of Health as a founder. According to my information, universities conclude contracts with faculty hospitals to carry out educational activities and this issue does not concern these contracts, at least according to my information. This means that the Ministry of Education has no competence in this matter and the matter needs to be dealt with directly with the founder. That means the Ministry of Health. However, since I have heard the reaction of the Minister of Health in previous interventions, it may not be correct to send you not from devil to devil, but from Valachová to Ludvík, of course I would like to promise here that we will look at the matter with the Minister of Health and try to get the truth and, if necessary, make amends. And as for the first thing, it's new information to me. Generally speaking, the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports does not provide for qualifications for the performance of a profession, if regulated. However, in this matter, I will contact the relevant minister in the field of burial, that is to say, Minister Šlechtová, and we will try to find some modus vivendi. If we have educational facilities that have a particular specialty and it would be necessary to ensure their usability in practice, which would also be desirable in terms of expertise, this will of course happen.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u188	The Member does not wish to speak. In that case, please, Mr. Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u189	Mr President, I have an interview for the absent Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek. I'll do it and hope I get a written answer. I have approached Mr. Vice Prime Minister several times about the malfunction of the information system for research, development and innovation, and in particular the components for entering data which prevented the entry of new projects and thus the allocation of funds to solvers. This situation lasted until December last year. I received a written reply to my intervention from the Vice Prime Minister, in which he effectively transferred responsibility to the Ministry of Education. I would paraphrase the answer as saying that the Ministry of Education was unable to enter the data and the responsibility is on his side. Therefore, I asked the Minister of Education Kateřina Valachová how the matter is, and she replied to me on December 14 in a way that I fully identify with the content: The failure to release the funds of the beneficiaries was the result of shutting down the information system for research, development and innovation on 31 May 2016. It states that part of the project's central recording in the information system has been made available for data input since October of this year, but was subsequently dealt with with an additional application for data acquisition in the required format, the form of which was available in the previous version of the information system. The application was operational according to the Minister's information up to 21 November 2016, but without any documentation. I consider that serious misconduct for which someone should be held responsible. [[Time warning]] I'm asking who will be responsible for this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u190	Thank you. Mr Karamazov, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u191	Dear Minister, there is no doubt that the Code of Criminal Procedure is one of the most important legislation. Modifying evidence in criminal proceedings, wiretapping or detention conditions are several areas to which the Criminal Code deals. The current criminal code was already approved in 1961 and, despite numerous amendments, it cannot be considered satisfactory in many cases. The Government has therefore committed itself in the programming declaration that it will prepare the new Criminal Code by 2017. However, we can already see that this term is not possible due to the state of work. From among the professional public there are complaints that you refused to follow up on the work of the current Supreme Court President profesor. Šámal, who was forced to leave the post of Chairman of the Recodification Commission due to his new position, so the work had to start again. That is why I ask you, Minister, what is the current state of affairs, whether the commission for the preparation of the new Criminal Code meets and when you expect its first appearances. I also wonder whether the document prepared under the direction of Professor Šámal, I mean the basis and principles of the new penal order, was thrown under the table or whether it would be further worked with. Thank you for your answer and good luck in the recodification work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u192	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u193	Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, I would like to thank you for this final wish, because I need it. If something is an extremely difficult task, it is the preparation of new codifications, and in this respect it is extremely little work. I must say that the time aspect here is retreating into the background before the result is really good. In fact, the work was greatly complicated independently of my will by Professor Šámal, the original chairman of the Commission, taking up the position of Supreme Court President, with which it was hardly compatible to continue to be not only the chairman of the Commission, but he was even the key intended author of the new codification. It is certainly not true that there is no attempt to follow up on what the Commission has achieved, but, of course, Professor Císařová has her own ideas, and it is quite clear that after taking up her role, she also somehow embodies them in the work. I would call it a matter of continuity, that is, it does not start again from the beginning, but, of course, there are some changes. It is hard to expect another professor to try to imitate the previous one completely. The Commission is working very intensively, meeting regularly only for a few weeks and in the meantime preparatory work is under way. The two key areas are currently being worked on, i.e., on the one hand, paragrafo the wording of the preparatory procedure and, on the other, paragrafo the wording of the main presentation. That, I would say, is the centre of gravity of the entire criminal code, both of these areas. I assume that the two paragrafo texts will be completed in the coming months, so that they can be submitted to the wider Commission, because now the narrower working committee, the wider commission, in which there are approximately 40 leading experts in criminal law, is working to assess and comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u194	The Member does not wish to speak. Mr Holeček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u195	Dear Minister, in 2012, you issued one crown to Agrofert without any benefit from it, to yourself billions of bonds with an unjustified nominal value. The tax on the yields of one bond is then rounded down to the koruna, i.e. zero. You've cost the state 67.5 miles in taxes in five years. Crowns. Is there anything you can do to justify it? How many of these machinations have you done? That's why we overruled the president's veto of the conflict of interest law yesterday. Although it allows ministers to do business, it does not allow them to draw public finances. You announced that this law would put Agrofert in a trust fund. So do you admit that you are primarily concerned with public finances?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-12-ps2013-054-03-009-291.u196	Thank you. Mr. Hovorka, please, but I don't see him. In that case, Mr Soukup has the floor. He's not here either. Mr Farský is also absent, Mr Bendl is not, nor is Mr Mackovík. Mr Bendl again, neither. Well, Mr. Holeček has a chance. He's downloading. [[He's laughing.]] Mr Hovorka is absent, Mr Farský also absent twice, Mr Holeček withdraws again, Mr Mackovík is not, Mr Hovorka is not, and Mr Mackovík is not. In that case, I'm done with the interpellation today. Please note that the Chamber of Deputies will not meet until 9:35 a.m. tomorrow, because there will be a pause at the TOP 09 meeting at 9 p.m., as President Laudát has announced. Then we'll start eating at 9.35 o'clock. Until then, I'm interrupting the House meeting.
