ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-002-217.u1	217. Proposal by Members Marian Jurečka, Jan Bartošek and Petr Kudela for the issue of the Act amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts (Law on the Register of Contracts) /Household printing 699/ - third reading [[10.00 hours]] We dealt with this bill on 9 December 2016 at the 53rd meeting of the House and on a proposal from the rapporteur, who was Mr Vondráček, was suspended and adjourned until the resolution of the guarantee committee, which was constitutionally legal. The guarantee committee dealt with the press and submitted a resolution delivered to us as press 699/10. I would remind you that the amendments are in press 699/7, which was delivered on 19 October. Now I would like to ask Minister Jurečka, respectively, as a representative of the plaintiffs of Minister Jurečka, and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, that is the Committee of Constitutional Law, Mr Farský. But Mr Farský is excused, so I will ask the President of the ÚPV to tell us how we will resolve the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-002-217.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, we have several options, as is the case. However, this law is too complicated to deal with the vote on several dozen amendments without a rapporteur, to whom Mr Farský, who is duly excused, cannot attend the meeting. So I would suggest two options. The first, then, is that we finish the general debate in which the proposal to repeat the second reading will be made, in which case we would have to draw up the debate and we would have to vote in conclusion on the return to second reading. We would be able to prepare a simple comprehensive amendment on the basis of a debate that has already been held, to adapt some amendments legislatively in a technical way, and we would therefore vote at the next meeting at second and third reading. The second option is that the debate will not even get started and we will vote on the suspension of the negotiations until the next meeting, at which we would either decide to repeat the second reading, or vote on the proposal with the rapporteur, Mr Farský, at the third reading. The Constitutional Committee has fulfilled its role, that is, designed the procedure and adopted opinions on individual amendments at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-002-217.u3	Mr President, there is no debate. [[This is Mr. Jandak.]] I have had the President of the ÚPV present with a proposal for a solution, and we have two options, the ones that the President has presented. In my opinion, because his speech should be concluded by a procedural proposal, otherwise it would be a withdrawal outside the Rules of Procedure, I would take it that if the House agrees that the President's procedural proposal is to interrupt the negotiations. If this procedural proposal is not adopted, someone from the IDA, probably the President, would have to represent Mr Farský, with the fact that we would have gotten to the second option, that is to exhaust the debate and vote on the proposal to repeat the second reading, and we would certainly not vote today at third reading. I apologise to Mr Jandák, but I cannot give him a technical remark now. [[Mr Jandak's comment: I agree with this, I only wanted to add technically, when we have the time to make a non-profit there...]] Please, Mr. Ambassador, let's not discuss outside the microphone. The procedural proposal is without debate. That means, at this stage, we will vote on the suspension of this item until the present time... [[Member Philip reporting.]] A procedural proposal, so I'm assuming a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-002-217.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I merely perceived the President's proposal to the ÚPV in a procedural manner so that we could finish the debate so that we could basically finish the debate, and then if it goes back to second reading - because in that case, we risk not even discussing the proposal after 21 February. I consider this to be a threat to the very negotiations on the bill itself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-002-217.u5	I have the difficulty to formulate this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I am of the opinion that Mr Tejc has proposed to suspend the procedure. If anyone objects to this procedure, we will resolve it by voting. I do not take what my colleague Filip said as a procedural proposal or an alternative. We will therefore vote on the interruption, if the motion for interruption fails, we will continue the negotiations. It's a procedural proposal. [[Voices: No debate. Response to other notes from the diaper:]] Yes, I said so - until the rapporteur's presence. I am opening the vote and I am asking who agrees to interrupt this point until the presence of the rapporteur, Mr Farský. Who's against it? It's vote number 290, registered 149, for 103, against 24. This proposal has been adopted and the item has been interrupted. We'll continue with point 140, which is
