ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-003-339.u1	339. Information from the European Commission Věra Jourová on the White Paper on the future of the European Union I ask a member of the European Commission, Věra Jourová, to take the floor, and I will ask you, colleagues, to keep the voice down, so that you understand what Věra Jourová will be giving. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-003-339.u2	Ladies and gentlemen. Let me first say hello and express my pleasure again and it is my great honor to perform here before you today. I was here last October. Since then, some time has passed, and the European Commission has come up with the so-called White Book, which essentially represents five options for possible further developments. Why did we do that? I think it is absolutely necessary that we today, when we all perceive that Europe is to some extent at a crossroads, where there are a number of external threats, internal tensions, where many states express some dissatisfaction with the current developments in Europe, so it is necessary to say again where Europe is to go. That is why we have given five options, which are the basis for the debate, and I would very much like to see your very active participation in the Czech Republic. [[11.10 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know that this House has many other tasks, that you have a lot of legislative work to do before the end of the mandate, and yet I dare to come before you here to draw your attention to the debate on the future of the European Union, which the Čech should take a very active part in. [[Strong noise in the whole hall.]] You know that Europe is going through a number of internal political changes. Emmanuel Macron's victory makes it clear that he will be a very strong tandem of France and Germany -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-003-339.u3	I apologize for entering into your speech, but repeatedly I call on you colleagues to remain calm because the noise in the hall is so great that I do not understand what Věra Jourová lectures here. So I'm asking you to calm down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-003-339.u4	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Today we see that there is very intensive communication between France and Germany, that there is talk of a two-speed Europe. I think it is absolutely essential that the Czech Republic tell itself, through the mouth of its top representatives, people who are elected by citizens, whether the Čech should be within such a community. I will not talk here about the advantages of membership of the European Union. That's what I was talking about last time. It would be good if the debates that go against all those who are supporters of staying outside would say what the price of non-Europe will be. I think citizens should hear it too. We see that today, during the Brexit negotiations, it is precisely the disadvantages that will arise for the UK from the non-Europe option and, of course, that Europe itself will pay its price for Brexit. I am here today to draw your attention to the White Paper and help the debate on which of the five options should be the most suitable one for the Czech Republic. I fundamentally say the most appropriate, not the most advantageous, because it sometimes slides into a debate about how much Europe pays us, such as it should give - he gave. I have never been a follower of such a simplified view of Europe and of the advantages associated with membership in Europe. What did we come out of when we were preparing the White Book? Ladies and gentlemen, Europe's economic strength will fall to 2030, from 26 percent of the world's GDP in 2004, to less than 20 percent in 2030. The number of citizens, the population, is falling. In 1900 Europe represented 25 percent of the world's population. In 2060 it'll be just 4 percent! The deployment of military troops on our eastern borders, war and terrorism in the Middle East and Africa force us to think very seriously about joining forces in defence. You know this is a new topic in Europe. That Europe played the role of an economic giant, but it was much weaker on foreign policy and defence issues, and it relies solely on the North Atlantic Pact. We must reconsider whether Europe's soft power is enough for the future. Unemployment in the European Union, in 27, is falling, but it is still high. I am very pleased that the Czech Republic is an exception and that there is, if I am not mistaken, the first or second lowest unemployment in the European Union. However, in Europe, the problem is long-term unemployment, in particular, and this is a warning, for young people, when we also need to work out a level of public and private debt in some states of Europe. These are the economic factors. Back to demographics. Europe will be the oldest region in the world in 2030, measured by the age median of the regions of the world. This too is one of the reasons why we need to modernize our social security systems. Digitalization - it's a revolutionary development. I think we all perceive that the digital world is now entering every sphere of our public and private lives. We are particularly concerned about how he will enter the world of work. The world of work. The world of work will have to change and new technologies will create new jobs and replace others. New forms of employment and new business models will be created. However, there are great concerns that digitization and robotization will cost a lot of people their jobs. These are serious issues relating to all the countries of Europe and which deserve a joint debate on common solutions. Let me briefly introduce the five scenarios that we should think about, what is the most suitable option for the Czech Republic by 2025. Variant one - continuing to practice so far. This option would mean continuing on the basis of last year's Bratislava programme in the current course, but at a faster pace. The Czech Republic is one of the most eurosceptic countries. We often hear that European regulation ties us up, that it does not suit us. That is why I think it is quite desirable for you to consider critically on the basis of facts whether we really do not like it and we want it to be different. Because this is the present. Variant one is-- let's keep going. Variant two - minimalist. Let us continue to build only the single market together. This means basically - let's limit ourselves to the economic community and let's suppress the political community. This means that this will come at the moment when the European states say clearly: we do not want to cooperate in areas such as migration, security and defence. As a 27-year-old, we will be brought together around the single market, but we need to be aware that we will have many areas to spread, including consumer protection - which I would not like very much because I am responsible and I know how important it is to harmonise consumer rights in Europe - or, for example, in the field of the environment. Variant three - this is the multi-speed Europe. The states they want will do more. That's the subtitle of variant three. Thus, those Member States that are ready to deepen cooperation can do so, while remaining open to other States so that they can join later. This option is now raised in the Czech Republic, as I have seen in the media, mainly in connection with the issue of the adoption of the euro, or when to adopt the euro. You know that we have made a commitment to the adoption of the euro in the Treaty of Lisbon, but the question is when. This will be based on the decision of the Czech Republic as a sovereign state in monetary policy. I would hate to have this debate about a multi-speed Europe and the Czech Republic's consideration only flattened for a debate on the euro, but it is necessary to realise the advantages and disadvantages of such a solution, or the disadvantages of the situation, when we will be on the edge of the inside of the rigid society, which will go faster than others. The fourth option - to do less and more efficiently. I am not hiding from the beginning - we, as commissioners, were not obliged not to express ourselves, so I am expressing myself - this is a good option for me. Make a revision of what really needs to be dealt with together in Europe, and then deal with it more effectively and on a lot of things resign, not solve it, leave it to sovereign states. And then there's the script to do a lot more together. That means full throttle integration. Member States should decide to share more competences, resources and decision-making powers among themselves, including what is now called the creation of a European government, a joint finance minister and a number of other things. You would be surprised how many young people from Czech Republic and Slovakia, when I talk to them, were for this variant. Although strengthening the integration of many Čech because of the euroscepticism already mentioned, which is very rooted here, is very anti-thinking. [[11.20 hours]] The White Paper is supposed to open an honest discussion. The Commission was criticised for not coming up with one elaborate option as always. One suggestion, let's discuss it. No. We come up with five scenarios because we think that time is serious and that debate needs to be based on alternative solutions. Let everyone say what the best way for him is. We'll be preparing other documents for the White Paper as the Commission now, but I don't want to bore you with that and delay you. As you may know, one important event related to this process will be held on 9 June in Prague, a conference on security and defence, to which the President of the Commission, Jean-Claude Juncker, should also speak. This means that my commissioning boss Jean-Claude Juncker is coming to the Czech Republic, and I assume that he will be able to discuss these variants of the White Book and other essential things. The next milestone this year - and I will end my speech - is the European Council meeting in December 2017, which should help decide which direction to start before the elections to the European Parliament in 2019. December 2017 will be a debate where the Czech Prime Minister will represent the interests of the Czech Republic and express his opinion as far as possible. I hope that the Czech voice will be heard and that it will sound strong and reasonable enough to influence the future of Europe in the right direction. Because the future of Europe is also our future, the future of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-18-ps2013-057-03-003-339.u5	Thank you. In suspended paragraph 337, he spoke at the 50th meeting on 20 October 2016 as the first Member of Marek Černoch and agreed to the position of rapporteur. I am asking you now, Mr Member, whether you agree with the position of rapporteur on this point as well. You agree. Thank you. I wonder if you want to get off at this point. It's not like that. I'm just gonna ask you to take a seat at the news desk. I shall now vote on the proposal to merge the general debate on paragraphs 337 and 339. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the front door to vote. I'm gonna read what I'm gonna vote on one more time. I shall vote on the proposal that the general debate on paragraphs 337 and 339 be brought together. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a 70-order vote, 115 Members and Members signed up for proposal 99, against no one. I note that we have merged the general debate on paragraphs 337 and 339.
