ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u1	22. Government bill amending Act No. 328/1999 Coll., on Civil Cards, as amended, and other related laws /house print 928/ - second reading I ask that Mr Milan Chovanec and the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Věra Kovářová, take the position at the rapporteur's table for the plaintiff. We agreed to the proposal to repeat the second reading of this bill. It is the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 1552 of 3. 2. 2017 from the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Now I ask the Interior Minister Milan Chovanec whether he wants to speak at the beginning of this second reading. He doesn't want to. I also ask whether the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mrs Věra Kovářová, wants to take the floor. He wants to take the floor. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just repeat that the third reading took place on 3 February 2017 and the bill was returned to repeat the second reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u3	Thank you. I open a general debate in which I register three applications. Mr Klán will be the first to speak, Mr Pilný will be prepared. Ladies and gentlemen, the Deputy Minister of Justice of the Federal Republic of Germany, Mr Christian Lange, with the delegation, has arrived at the guest gallery. Please welcome him. [[Everyone rises and claps.]] And now, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u4	Thank you for the floor. Good morning, Mr Vice-President, Minister, colleagues. We've got an electronic ID again. I was looking forward to this point, and I could not sleep anymore, because I expected that the Member concerned, who broke this place down, the third one, would come up with an idea and a proposal on how to improve citizens' IDs in electronic form. He used to hang around here to make a contactless chip and everything possible and connect with iPhones and smartphones and I don't know what else. Even aliens, as the minister says. We can also connect calmly, maybe we can do that sometime, maybe we can make contact with an alien civilization. That's what I was talking about yesterday when global warming was discussed -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u5	I apologize, Mr. Ambassador, for entering your speech, but I will ask the House of Honor to keep it down.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u6	I understand it's funny maybe when I said those aliens, but that was meant to be exaggerated, of course, but after all, the smartphone reads like that, so I'd like to know it's going to be your way to Mr. Pilný now, because I have such a problem. I have two cell phones, and one of them is a smartphone, somehow a smartphone, and the other isn't. This is such a rarity, such a veteran sometime from 2009, Nokia, so I didn't do much advertising here, so Nokia will come in the middle of this year with a mobile phone retro, with Nokia 3310, which was quite popular at the beginning of the millennium, I had it too, so I wonder how I would like to communicate through this mobile phone with those authorities, so if it is not smart, it doesn't have the technology, so I would be interested in it, because I would like to send the data to you through Mr. Pilgrim House, for example, on his computer or on his smartphone, it would definitely not want to communicate with me, it would look bad, then my data would be able to do somethin't, or I wouldn't like to pass it to private corporations, because then I wouldn't like it to send me annoying messages, annoying emails, or call me at night, if I didn't want to change some tariff, maybe, so I might simply be interested in how to communicate with it. I need to explain. I'm not so technically experienced, although I studied electrical engineering many and many years ago, but the technique develops quite quickly. I was just saying in my last speech about Moorův's law, when every 18 months the chips are being perfected, and the development is moving forward, so whatever technology we're putting in place here is going to be the same age in 18 months, so it won't matter anyway. So I'm leaning here to introduce these electronic civil documents, as presented, using an electronic citizen's license reader. Mr Pilný here will certainly explain by your means, I will still not turn to the Vice-President, I have said this once before, so that it may sound that I will speak to Mr Pilný - to explain it to all of us here. First of all, he explained the effort to break down the third reading, which was absolutely wonderful, when the bag girl was running a pretty gunfight here, some kind of prank going on here, so I'm really interested in the technology. I am really interested in having this explained to us, and I am wondering if he has prepared the amendment. The minister here told him that he was going to lend legislation, the law department, and I don't know what else to put together so that it would be here today. So I didn't get anything because I'm the club guarantor of this bill, so I can study it carefully. I was looking forward to it, so I couldn't sleep, but unfortunately I didn't get anything until today, so unfortunately, I'm looking forward to the discussion because I really don't know why to crash here when we're at this stage, and we were just before the vote, because it's really necessary to move it somewhere. We're really behind. Speaking of which, I would like to know from Mr Pilný how they are in other countries of Europe. That may be what the Minister may say to me, as is the case, for example, with Germany, Austria, Slovakia, where we have been with the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development many times, and are already at some stage of the electronization and the electronic civil documents, we have dealt with them there while we were there, so I would also be interested in this situation, how it is regulated in legislation in the surrounding states. Now I get to the problem of a controlled company. I have said here many times that electronic IDs in any form, whether in the form of these readers or in some way through those smartphones, will increase the controlled society. No doubt. Your data will be moving through the network. No one will deny that, no one will dispute that, certainly not even Mr Pilný, that there is a risk of leaking data. We can't stop that from happening today in the network connection of global capitalism and other things. This certainly cannot be prevented. I was describing an affair here, and that was the Obamacare affair, which was the leaks of data, where there was some kind of electronic health-care e-books, let's say, in the United States of America, and the data leaked. It escaped at that time, the affair is being settled to this day, and the data got into the hands of a private corporation. And then those private corporations started handing them over and sending these guys all kinds of ads, ideas to buy something, so it's really threatening here. This is a real and undeniable fact, an increase in controlled society in any form. I mentioned here two novels by two authors, both George Orwell and his 1984 novel, the phenomenon of a great brother who watches everywhere and sees and supervises everyone. The big brother can somehow be transformed into an American NSA, which is indeed the National Security Agency of the United States of America, where they really concentrate data and often also voluntarily send data to Američan because they fear terrorism, which is why the NSA does it in this way. The second novel is Aldoux Huxley and his book The End of Civilization, which says that we will live in such a mess of information and we will be so confused that we will not know what is true and what isn't. And that has to do with the hoaxes and the slaps that there's so much data that we don't know which is true. So electronic IDs are connected to a controlled company, because somewhere someone will have additional control of me, which is, in essence, a restriction of privacy. It also, of course, plays a big role in that it is an invasion of individual privacy, if I speak philosophically, purely philosophically. But in order not to just talk about the philosophical side and the impact of electronic civil documents on society, it has its advantages, of course. The government's electronization has advantages because I can do a lot of work from the comfort of home, I don't have to run to the authorities. This is the alpha and omega of electronic civil documents to speed up the communication of citizens with the authorities. That means when I come to the office, so I don't have to go in there and sit there for two hours, so I'll just relax in the comfort of home, from the heat, I'll do it over the Internet. Even knowing that, of course, the data will be moving on the network. This is about security, and I would ask Mr Pilný to explain the security of the contactless chip, because we are not all in some way experts of this technology, so that we do not say any theories that I, of course, say here, are purely philosophical considerations, so that, technically speaking, we all have it, I think, worked out, so I would be really interested, because the technology is supposed to be exactly the same as with contactless payment cards. They say that's true, that's where the security is. [[10.40 hours]] I don't understand it that much, but I'm sure the MP will explain to us how it would have been that if someone had walked past us and we had the ID in our pocket and someone had the so-called. an iron - I don't think about laundry right now, but normally a reader like that - and it gets the data from the chip unless I have some kind of security code. I don't have to enter the authorization confirmation code when I pay, so I just put it on the reader and it goes off my account. But my point is, I don't have a smart phone. That's gonna be a problem. If you put in an electronic ID card with a contactless chip and I'm out of a smartphone, I'm probably screwed. Maybe it is. I'm just gonna be upset because I don't have a way to get in touch with the authorities, and then I'm probably just gonna look at the phone and the electronic I.D., and I don't know what I'm gonna do about it. It'll be of no use to me again, and I'll be able to run to those authorities again and spend hours and hours there. You know, in that electronization, we're really behind on other states, but I don't want to get into a phase like this, for example. In Estonia, where the big brother really exists, they really have it so electronized that I think it's too much. Too much, which is also too bad. I'm a proponent of so-called. conservative theories, when really the reader is the best solution. He's been talking about it the other day, the Minister, about someone having a house and everything in there on sensors and fingerprints and stuff like that. That's what I'm really worried about. If we have everything in contact - it's nice, I always come somewhere, I put my finger there, God forbid, if my finger was cut off, I don't know how I'm gonna get there or how I'm gonna communicate with other things where I have a fingerprint. She is, of course, the music of the future, which is possible. The electronic ID card, as it is presented here, has a link to other laws. I'm the one who pointed it out here, too, when we were discussing the so-called. Anti-smoking law. There was a provision that would sell alcohol or alcoholic beverages over the Internet in some way. The problem was identifying the individual that she was over 18 years old. 'Cause if I look at those forms today, I can write down any date of birth, and that's how many years I'm gonna be. So I'd like to know how this law will be dealt with afterwards, because that paragraph assumes the introduction of electronic civil documents, because if I have them available, then, of course, I can claim that I am over 18 years old, but only if there are electronic IDs. [[Several Members laugh at a loud voice.]] I don't know what's funny right now, maybe it's funny to somebody, but it's a serious thing that's gonna affect a lot of people in the future. Here I am referring to the issue of the exchange of citizens' IDs, that they will gradually exchange electronic citizens' IDs. I'm referring here to the problem of the lifetime of the ID - five, ten and thirty years - and the lifetime of the chip. Therefore, I would also like to know about the contactless chip, what is the length of the chip in relation to the validity of the electronic ID. I'm really interested in this, because we have to figure this out here, if we haven't been able to solve it at second reading or at different initiatives, twenty-two, so I don't add another twenty here. So that's where we were dealing with it, too. The problem is electronic identity, it is also an indisputable fact that should be discussed. And I've been told that the Ministry is preparing an electronic identity law. He's getting ready -- he's still preparing something, we're going to be preparing it here all the time in this case, but he says it's coming up, and next week it should be in the government, and in some way, we could start discussing it and dealing with it and getting into some phase that would be acceptable, because my ID is related to electronic IDs. I'm gonna have to identify myself in that communication somehow. And now I'm wondering what else is on the chip? I mean, if I'm a user, if it's my ID, and I'm a user, I'm gonna record anything on it, for example. e-banking certificate for communication with my bank, in which case I'm putting my data to private corporations, knowing that they're not going to do business with them, but somehow they're going to pass it on. There's a problem I've been talking about that data will be on the network. How is that secured? That's a question for the Minister, too, how data is secured on that network so that there are no leaks and we don't get lost. Because I'm saying if I don't have a smart phone, I'm really lost, I'm really lost in that digitalization network, I'm gonna be expelled, I'm gonna feel a little discriminated when the state still orders me: buy a smartphone or a smart phone so you can communicate with the authorities. Although they claim - you have to buy an electronic citizen ID reader to communicate with me as a state administration. That's what it says. So the state's ordering it, but buy it on your own. Of course, the other party can argue - if you want the benefits of electronizing the state administration, buy it and use it normally, it will cost 300 crowns if I'm not mistaken. Somehow it's settled. Well, I wanted to talk myself out of further consideration here, but I'll rather wait for Mr Pilný, who was the author of the break-up of the third reading. I'm sure I'm gonna respond to him, so we could get into this debate so I don't stay around so much. So I look forward to the discussion and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u7	Thank you, too. I note Mr Zlatuška's factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u8	Mr President, I am trying not to speak to these things here because I teach such things, so I am trying not to interfere with politics. Sometimes I grow when I hear those reservations, like Estonia, mixing with big brothers and stuff. But the insight of Mr Klán, the historical perspective he gave, I would add that when we were building bright tomorrows and we were able to wait on the phone waiting lists, the mobile phones were even with a swivelling choice, and they were solved by the way that there was a long cord and we could walk through the apartment with the phone. There was a danger of a person tripping over it or strangling over it. These are also the risks of this approach to telecommunications.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u9	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Pilný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to apologise to Mr Klánek, Mr Klán, through the President, for having deprived him of his sleep. At the same time, I would like to say that if I wanted to enter someone's dreams, it would certainly not be Mr Klán, nor for the purpose of increasing the IQ. But at the same time, I also thank him for being so patient and for waiting until I can express myself that he did not unnecessarily extend his valuable expert contribution that he made here. I will not be here to take stock of the instruments I own, unlike Mr Klán. And as far as his technical expertise is concerned, especially the notes that when I have someone with a contactless chip, I need a smartphone in my pocket, and I won't comment on the length of the contactless chip -- that's what my grandmother used to say about these things, "empty barrel dunes most." And there's been a lot of rumbling, esteemed colleagues and colleagues! [[Fun in the hall.]] [[10.50 hours]] Now I'm going back to the essence of this thing. First of all, I would like to thank Minister Chovanc for taking a very helpful stand not only to interrupt this point, but also to allow me to meet Deputy Minister Strouhal and other people from the Ministry of the Interior and discuss with them the possible correction of this amendment. The meeting took place. We stated that what I slightly signaled here as a slight improvement of the law, that is, to equip the ID with a contactless chip, would make the ID expensive, the modifications would really be cosmetic, even if I could imagine an app where it would be useful, and in addition, as the Ministry clearly expressed a negative opinion for these reasons. [[Big noise in the hall.]] The only amendment that would be considered is to have no chip on that citizen. This amendment, of course, cannot be supported by the Ministry, because the bill would have been liquidated. So no amendment has been adopted, but I am still using second reading to make clear some other arguments, because there has been a rather broad discussion on this topic and more and more people are involved. So I'll start with the security issue. Last time we heard a pretty nice story here about how a gentleman did everything on his fingerprints and then climbed out of the hot tub and couldn't get home. I would just like to point out that the travel document, a mandatory component as biometric data, is part of the fingerprints. I don't suppose we're gonna change those laws because if we get out of the hot tub, out of the bathtub, or out of the pool, our fingers are cracked. Biometric data, i.e. fingerprints, are also optional on a German ID card with a chip. So much for security. One argument made in the contributions I received was why I protest against the ID when it adds a new security element, so-called. Token to the whole process. Token, who doesn't know, is something when we had Internet banking, where you volunteered, and then you had this box that made some sort of random number generator, you logged in, and it generated some kind of number that you secured that seance with the bank. But the banks figured it was pretty pointless, because instead, they can send you a text that you're going to secure just the same. As far as the ID and his token are concerned, the séance that is secured by the SMS is safe because the SMS will be completely different next time. The ID you put in the machine or the computer, it's still the same. It doesn't change anything. That means if any app has access to it, even if it's secured by a pin that's centrally stored, the next time someone reads it, they don't need it because they have everything they need. Unlike the system, maybe the texts have everything. So I don't think that's a big increase in security. I also asked, and the Ministry gave me further arguments as to why the chip on the citizen should be. Because at the moment, when we adopt the law in this form, I have to state, and it is quite logical that there is no application that uses a citizen's ID with a chip. None. This means that we, for a few hundred million, are actually building a pool without water, and we expect someone in the form of an app to bring in a bucket and pour the water there. When I looked at what was proposed there, the apps that were designed there would only make sense if the ID was the only alternative you could enter. But that's not possible just because not everyone will have a chip ID. Or it would have to be easier and safer. But that's what I've been talking about before. That's not an option either. This means that the number of applications that may be there is relatively limited. From the list that the Ministry of the Interior has given me, the possible applications, because there are no applications, some applications that are useless, and other applications are now secured in a different way. Another argument that was there concerned the electronic signature that can be put into the chip. If we exclude people from this category who have mandatory data boxes, whose circle I'm trying to extend through the amendment, then imagine how you as citizens, in what situation you will use the electronic signature on the citizen. I couldn't think of anything special. Because now that someone wants you to sign, you send it to him in the mail, or you scan it, maybe the citizen could simplify it in some way, but the situations in which the citizen uses an electronic signature are too small, if there are any. It certainly does not justify the cost of setting something like this up. Those electronic signatures are a voluntary part of some civil documents in other states. I will now return to Germany, which introduced ID cards in 2011. The first thing I have to say is that it's not a regular reader, because there has to be collateral for the pin. As this will be done in practice, this does not specify the law, of course, but if it should be the reader, I just point out that in 2011 readers from the primitive version to the comfortable version cost 60 to 160 euros. Not 200 kroner. Citizen, and this is what Mr Kán here was talking about, there was also an optional chip in the German citizen called RFID, and it is a radio link that can establish contacts with a person, with clients, authorities and so on. That wasn't NFC technology back then. This is a very dangerous matter and most German citizens, who in this way secured a connection and also the possibility that the state would take up data about them, put their IDs in the microwave and liquidate it. [[Permanent noise in the hall!]] Now, the most important thing. The electronic identity law will be discussed in the government at present and next week. I was introduced to the law yesterday, and I'd like to quote two things that have to do with it. First. This law is very important and it will certainly be good if the House accepts it during this period. The effectiveness of this law is assumed 1. 1. 2018. And now I'm quoting one of those sections that's there. Electronic identification means the possibility of proof of identity at a distance, i.e. without the need for personal presence at the office. At a distance, the identity shall be demonstrated electronically using electronic identification means. As a means of electronic identification, we can imagine, for example, a certificate that will be stored in a storage device, for example, an identification card with a chip, where the identification certificate will be uploaded. That means this law already admits, and there are more possibilities including the smartphone, it allows identification in different ways, and that's right. This means that I would consider it correct for this law to be discussed at least in parallel with the Civil Card Act, because it will have a major impact on how electronic identity will be demonstrated. I heard the argument yesterday that the European Union is forcing us into those chip IDs. It's not true. I am the rapporteur for several documents in the Committee on European Affairs on this matter, and this is entirely at the will of the legislation of those relevant national states. There's no pressure here or any inflection or anything like that, there's no conflict with the European Union at all. This means that I would now appeal to the Minister of the Interior to include the third reading of this law in a time when the House at least at first reading will discuss the law on electronic identity, because it is simply related. If this proposal of mine is not accepted, unfortunately, if the ID is discussed earlier with the chip, I will have to vote against this law. It is, of course, up to every Member of the Chamber of Deputies to comment on this. Now, unfortunately, I have to go back to politics, because I made a motion at last second reading to reject this law. I understand that this can be interpreted as a violation of the coalition agreement, and I would like this government to be able to adopt more useful laws for the Czech Republic than an unnecessary law on citizens with a chip. This means that for these reasons, I will not again make a motion to reject the law at this second reading. But again, I appeal to the Minister of the Interior to present the law at third reading when the law on electronic identity is discussed at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u11	I thank Mr Pilný. Vice-President of the House Jan Bartošek reports with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Only briefly. I think it is a good thing that the law is put forward because, given that, as of 28 September 2018, part of the eIDAS regulation governing the mutual recognition of electronic identities within the Member States of the European Union will take effect, I consider it appropriate to propose a solution to this amendment and to use the ID card as a credible means of electronic identification. The majority of citizens of the Czech Republic own their ID card, and there is no other such card. That's what needs to be realized. The electronic identity card will also be a safe means of creating electronic signatures under the eIDAS Regulation following the approval of this bill. The current identification card with the contact chip allows the storage of certificates for electronic signature, but the existing contact chips do not meet the conditions for certification under eIDAS. Each citizen will then have a state guaranteed safe means of creating qualified signatures with the highest possible degree of confidence. I understand that the solution may differ, but please, let us move forward and technologically, because there are many countries that are already ahead of us, and I think that this is not a good business card for the Czech Republic.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u13	I thank the Vice-President. Another duly signed up for the debate is Mr Stanislav Grospič. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u14	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, fellow Members of the Government, I hope I will not keep you too long. In relation to this law, I want to address the question that I outlined here at the last hearing when we were returning this law back to second reading, namely to draw attention to two facts. The first fact is that, from the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia's pen under the House press number 234, a draft Civil Card Act was submitted, which today, given the development of probably even though it is still being discussed at second reading, contains a number of things that would require a deeper amendment. However, I would like to say that then and then the law, and this was also justified in the explanatory report, we presented that the law was amended at the time when we presented our proposal, with effect from 1 January 2012, and the fundamental changes concerned precisely the data entered in the ID card. The amendment was then based on the fact that the identity card should contain basic information about the citizen, and thus the law, after the amendment, sets the scope of the data entered in the ID card, both compulsory and optional, with the fact that the demonstration of the facts used to identify the citizen directly linked to the fundamental rights and freedoms of the citizen. On the basis of this concept, no longer will the citizen's ID indicate the restriction or waiver of the citizen's right by decision of the court or the prohibition of residence as a penalty imposed by a court decision. From our point of view, this was a fundamental figure, which concerned not only a particular citizen but also had a fundamental influence and still has a fundamental influence on possible interference with the rights and freedoms of other entities of the law, namely other citizens, especially in the field of private relations. In fact, employment contracts and agreements on material liability can be concluded, for example, on the conclusion of agreements on civil or commercial relations with a citizen who is not legally competent, with fatal consequences for both parties, and can be intentionally interfered with by such persons as statutory bodies of companies. And I could continue with a list of the explanatory memorandum that led us to present this bill. However, there was no further negotiation and it fell asleep as part of the second reading. Today we have a new bill on civil documents. A bill that, in a certain way, is half-baked. And I would like to express here the concern, which my previous speaker said in a way, that it would probably be very right at the moment that the discussion of this bill should be interrupted in some way and associated with the draft draft law on electronic communications which would allow these two things to be harmonised, because at the same time the government is dealing with the draft of this bill and this bill, which is logically arriving in the Chamber of Deputies, will require the amendment of the already approved and adopted Civil Card Act, and we will continue to expose citizens of this republic to uncertainty in fact and will incur unnecessary costs for public administration in terms of aligning both systems together. Then I would like to draw attention to one thing that the law does not deal with, and, of course, it is not his complete duty either. However, I think it would also be worth taking deep account of the Ministry of the Interior's proposal for a Civil Card Act, in addition to the reasons I have referred to here, also thinking more deeply about how to deal with the issue of permanent residence and the so-called institute, which was once excluded from our legal order, temporary residence and reporting of persons who, for some various reasons, simply report as their permanent residence at the municipal authorities' notice offices or are registered at municipal authorities' notice boards. It's a problem that's putting a lot of pressure on these reporters. In essence, the Civil Card Act cannot even respond to this in any way, it must accept this condition. But the situation is very serious. The number of citizens is constantly rising, not only citizens who face poverty or social emergency or are somehow excluded from society, but also citizens who live and belong - and we could also assign them to the middle class, who simply use and abuse the institute and are registered for some reason at their notice boards. So that's another thing that I think should serve to think deeply about in connection with the negotiation of the law. That is why I would also like to make sure that this matter is not rushed and given more time - and so I am returning again - especially in the law on electronic communications. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u15	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I note Mr Chalupa's factual remark and then Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u16	Hello, dear colleagues, colleagues. Thank you for the floor. I will not repeat what the previous speaker has said here, but I agree with him, and I just add that, in the context of the debate on civil documents, we may also consider whether the identity card should not be issued at the same time as the moment of birth. Because if we're talking about electronic identity here, the identity of a citizen of the Czech Republic comes from his birth. We then have birth certificates, of course, parents can ask for a passport or ID, but the citizen no longer exists or has no ID. And the point is, if you're dealing with setting different utility values, it's just about setting up for these, let's just say, wrong, so it's just going to be treated in the context of the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u17	Thank you, too. Mr Leo Luzar, who is duly applied for, will now appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u18	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Civil Cards Act is getting into this House quite often, for my taste too often. When I came to this House three years ago as an elegant MP, it was one of the first laws I looked at in more detail. I had a certain ambition to understand the law and suggest possible practical changes. I was led out of a mistake that the House doesn't actually work like this. The MPs, although well-intentioned ideas, are mostly taken through the gross network of views of the Ministry and the authors of the original drafts are based on philosophy: we probably suspect that you are right, that it is not good, but we will not admit it and we believe that the amendment will fix it. Unfortunately, this philosophy, which in general is rooted in this administration, is not very good at the work of the Legislative Council of the Government. This is, I think, an institution that should address these issues and coordinate them. [[11.10 hours]] The ID card, in my opinion, is one of the most important things that actually replaces the passports and other documents we know today. My previous speakers mentioned the history of phones. They may have started with Graham Bell, but they ended up with mobile devices. All these stages, let my colleague Rais here talk about the apparatus with the wire, if I'm not mistaken, but I'll admit that I didn't hear it until after the apparatus dialed or mobile with various apps. I am talking about this because all these historic stages had one thing in common. The phone was on the phone, that's why it's called a phone. A citizen's identity card in his history served as a citizen's ID, which means a citizen has proven himself to the authorities. Because it was created at a time when there wasn't even a picture of the electronization, nor a hearing, and the data in it were recorded in filing cabinets, large filing cabinets, and the legislator solved the form of how to transfer the data from the filing cabinet to the citizen so that he could immediately prove himself. That's why the I.D. was in the form of a book. Historical developments continued, and various data from the workplace, employment, punishment, medical fitness appeared in the book. There were vaccination data, or medical data required by doctors when they took over such a patient, and he was unable to make his own diagnosis, which could be a contraindication to the treatment he was given. That's all the IDs they had. But the time of the electronization came and in this electronization some wise head with hair, as my grandmother says, thought most of these figures were useless. I went to change the ID card and made it back a classic card with the most basic data. And he started building large-scale registers. Government registers, the one on it, the one on it, I'm not gonna name them here. Now we are in a situation where the card is swell again and there is a way to find how these individual registers, which in themselves are already a huge organizational and data pier and are losing clarity, can somehow connect in some functional application that could provide information to a citizen important. I spent a few hours discussing health and disease problems with my colleague Koskuba. He made a huge appeal to the possibility for patients to have a permanent record of their health in some form of document. It would make the doctor's work a lot easier and maybe even save his life. About vaccinations or property-related items. Let me give you an example of a dog or a cat and his vaccination against rabies. Which dog owners carry a dog's vaccination card with them for walks? And how many times did that dog bite someone? I was bitten by a dog, and it was a pretty big mess before the owner proved that the dog was vaccinated. Unfortunately, he was homeless, which made it more complicated, and the city police had to intervene. How much easier it would be if a doctor, a veterinarian, could record such an indication in the document of a citizen owning this dog. These are all dates that couldn't have been such a ID, but they should have contained it. I understood the time when miniaturization had progressed and the IDs were constantly shrinking to the size of tiny cards, and that the font size also has some limits, I also use glasses and sometimes it is difficult to read it. That's how I understood it. But by creating an electronic chip on these licenses, a whole new area of use of the chip opens up. When I suggested at the beginning of my parliamentary career that applications should have access to this chip, I proposed changes in the law, literally the application, so it was rejected, even though behind the scenes the experts were telling me the truth that it might open up the development of these apps placed on the ID card. I heard today that this is exactly the fault why the chip shouldn't be on that ID because there is no app. So what was before? Eggs or chickens? From this point of view, I think it would be a mistake to disturb the electronic chip when it's already on those IDs and it's starting to spread quite massively. I'd rather think about extending it. There's been a security debate. I don't want to say much about it. There is so much about the security of applications or two-phase verification by means of an SMS message that comes within the banking sector. It is quite easily hacked, whether by direct fraud - impersonating someone who accidentally sent a text and requesting a code message. There is, if so, called cloning of SIM cards, which is quite pregnantly able to copy, and before you notice that there is a double using the same SIM card, it can do quite interesting things. Today, identification is considered even through an eye background, when his image in a 3D speech placed, printed on the ID card, is probably the most perfect form of identification with the help of the retina. But all of this is a development for the future. I want to focus on one thing in this law, on what I was talking about at first. How this law came into being. What was the reason for it to come into existence. Today we are in a state where the public administration manages dozens of registers, similar registers, if not even the same registers. Here in this law, too, we are talking about two registers, which are under the authority of the Minister himself. We've got a basic register here, we've got ID records here. And if you look, they're both mentioned here in this law. I'm asking, and the question will probably not be answered, because, as I mentioned here, the state administration is working with the salami method - why won't these registers unite? What is the title to maintain two of these registers? Yes, they were created independently because they were based on the paper system of the filing cabinet follow-up (?) electronic systems. But why won't these systems unite? Why are we constantly keeping these two systems in the law and just pointing out that this data is being extracted from one, from the other here this data? It is a question of whether it was even given to officials a task from those who should address the concept of government in order to work on such tasks and prepare such a proposal. This is also my question to the Minister, even though it is a short time before the elections whether it would be worth the task of the Ministry's responsible staff to build a central single database, in which only the law would address who has access to which data and not have two of these systems, which often cause problems for each other in communication. I want to go back to one thing that I absolutely miss, and that the citizen needs some information so that he can communicate with the other citizen either in business or in personal contact. And the citizen deliberately or unintentionally can't provide them to him or doesn't want to provide them. I am talking about a record of restrictions on right, which, in my opinion, is quite important in trade, and there is no obligation or possibility to prove this here, and the consequences often end in court. Paradoxically, the government has this opportunity to look into the register and find out, but in a business, private relationship, this possibility does not exist at all in a private relationship. And once already mentioned problems associated with proving the condition, I mean now the marital status, when these are data that are voluntarily registered. But what is the option of a citizen who has this ID card to request a statement or to obtain this data and to prove himself with them in the context of electronicisation? These are all questions, and I don't expect, as in the first hearing three years ago of a similar law, actually, no answers, because there haven't been any answers in three years. [[11.20 hours]] I would like to draw attention to one more thing that has been mentioned here. In this law, the information of the Office's communication with the citizen is added. That means, there's a text-based communication, there's an e-mail communication. I'd like her to appear here within a possible legislative technical framework, if that's possible, also communication with a data box. More and more individuals have a data box, they're setting it up voluntarily. In other words, if I have a data box as a citizen, a state authority could let me know that I already have a data box and not have to ask me for a mobile number or a mobile number. an e-mail to write it to me when I already have a data box. This in this law in the proposed changes is forgotten, not mentioned here. So I would appeal for this to be put into this law here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Stanjura is claiming priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u20	Thank you for the floor. I have one question for the Minister, and then I have one procedural proposal. I want to ask the Minister if we would approve this bill and then approve the prepared law on electronic identity, will we or will we not have to amend what we are to approve? I'd ask him for a definite yes or no answer. When I saw the ground materials in the eKLEP of what you're up to, I'm sure we'll have to amend what we haven't approved yet. And I think it's a much more logical procedure to first pass the law on electronic identity and then return to the Civil Card Act. I am putting forward a procedural motion, but I do not know if I am right now, because I would like to hear the answer first, and I do not want this to be voted on immediately, in order to interrupt this bill's second reading until the second reading of the Electronic Identity Act. I think it has a clear logic, a clear logical continuity. Otherwise, if we use the force approach and approve it, there will still be a need for this law to be amended again and again in this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u21	Okay. To proceed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will first ask the Minister if he wants to answer. If that is not the case, I will ask you to repeat the procedural proposal I will put to the vote. [[The Minister's on the phone and he's not listening.]] Minister, I want to ask - will you respond, or should I put a vote on a procedural proposal? Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate was very interesting. I'd just like to remind you why we interrupted last time and returned it to second reading. We have returned this because Mr Pilný, through Mr President, argued that he would prepare an amendment. You told me last time that Mr. Pilný is not the chairman of the committee. For a short time, I did not realise that the Chairman of the Economic Committee, which has a technical apparatus, had the opportunity to undoubtedly prepare the amendment. In spite of all this, I designed and promised technical support to the Ministry of the Interior. Mr. Pilný met with our officials, explaining the situation. I must say that, perhaps the seventh time during the debate at the end, President Pilný's position was that he would not make a proposal. So I just wanted to remind you how the debate was going here last time and why we were going back to second reading. In addition to talking to the Home Office people, we need this law first, so that we have an electronic identification carrier that can currently be dealt with, processed, processed and processed. And most importantly, the process of making your own citizen's IDs needs to be started before we finish the law you're talking about. It is very likely that a technical amendment will have to take place in the law referred to by President Stanjura. I guess that's true. I admit that, Mr Stanjuro, through Mr President. In spite of all this, we think that the two laws, as approved in this order, that it is okay. I don't know if I'm here to discuss the whole debate, to answer questions that we've answered in the past and in the committees. I didn't really understand how when a guy who's taking a bath in his hot tub has his fingers unidentifiable through that reader, if he's supposed to be carrying a passport into a hot tub, I didn't really get that much to identify himself with a passport, but it's possible. But I don't want to get into these absurdities, please. We believe that the standard, as is currently proposed, is fine. If there is a chance, Mr Petrů will come forward and read the amendments, which unfortunately fell out at the previous second reading, which allow, for example, over 70 years of age to issue a citizen's ID for a longer period of time, which means that these people will not have to go for ID again every five or ten years. So this allows for technical clarification. Let's see if the House will give us a chance to hear this proposal. So for us, I say that we think that, as it is approved, in this order it is okay and that this will allow for a smooth running of new citizen's IDs with a chip. In addition, I would like to say that thanks to the work of the House, the work of the Ministry of the Interior has shifted by four seats within the eGovernment system. We're from 26th in 22nd place. If we are to continue in eGovernment, in this project, in this system, we need an electronic identification tool to which this proposal is heading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u23	Thank you. With a point of fact, President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u24	I want to thank the Minister for telling the truth that he wasn't avoiding the answer. You heard me loud and clear. If we approve or approve, because at this point, I'm not prepared to vote for it precisely because of the bad timing, we'll technically amend it. And that's during this parliamentary term. The problem is, we want to start making it, as the Minister said, we want to start making it, but we don't know how the electronic identity law is going to end yet. And what if it turns out to be different? What if you need to change what's made and made again? I don't think it's important that we want to make an ID with a chip, maybe even Dal, and yet we don't have an electronic identity law that's more important. And according to the bill, it's only one way to prove your identity in that cyberspace, a citizen's ID. And it's right that it's only one option. But I don't really understand the prestigious duel that this has to be sooner. Because it doesn't make sense. Not really. And if you approve at third reading and the technical amendment comes again and we hear how it needs to be approved here, then think about the users, think about our citizens. We're gonna make them change again because we did a technical novel and we forgot something? Or we have not forgotten at the level of the Ministry and the Government, but the two chambers of Parliament will have a different view of the law. This may not even be a conscious error or omission. It's just gonna be a different opinion on how it's supposed to look. But we're about to make. And that's important. Start making chip and Dale.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u25	Thank you for keeping time. Mr Klán will now appear. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u26	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, fellow Members, don't worry, I won't be talking long here, but I have more technical remarks. The first will be for Mr Stanjura. When the electronic identity law comes here... [[President: Through me.]] I told you, through you. If he comes here sometime in April, if this is the time, will we be able to discuss him by the end of the term? I'm just asking. The point is not to block it. As long as we're dealing with this, this electronic identity, shortening deadlines and other things, whether or not someone's gonna break it down, because it's a real threat here that somehow we're gonna get those electronic IDs and the electronic identity. I agree with you that it is necessary to do the electronic identity, of course, because it is an important identifier in cyberspace. There's no doubt about it. But the point is, if we really do keep it, if we just send it to the third reading right now, then there's no problem with what Mr. Pilný said here, through you, to time it to each other, somewhere. [[11.30 hours]] At the same time, I thank you for the technical aspect of the matter, which has been explained to me here how it all works. To be a little bit, as they say, in the picture. So it's more about whether we're gonna make it to the end of the term, because I'm assuming that the meeting will be June, July, and then we're probably not gonna do much here. And we have the Senate and the president. So that we can get the whole thing started and it doesn't fall under the table, like it often happens here at the end of the term. That's what's going on here. On the other hand, the minister says that this will be a carrier, and then we'll be building more building blocks. It's another option. But it would really be the cleanest solution if it was a third reading, so that the law on electronic identity would be presented here, and that we could discuss how citizens would identify themselves in cyberspace. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u27	Thank you, too. Mr Běhounek's point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u28	Mr President, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, I am a little mocked here for interfering in matters that are not my professional power. But if I understand correctly, the I.D. won't start producing immediately. It will start to produce 12 months after the law comes into force. If the Vice-President of the House is logically talking about having eIDAS filled on October 28, 2018, that means that if we approve the legislative process as well as the dog's pasturage, these laws, we can start producing electronic ID from June 2018. We don't have much time left to fill it. Another point to be pointed out is that the two laws are fundamentally related, but the Electronic Identity Act extends the possibilities of the current ID card or the Civil Card Act. So I think we're making very significant problems for nothing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Stanjura, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u30	I'd like to respond to my previous speaker's performance. Yes, if we pass the law, we'll make trouble for nothing. It may be time-limit whether or not this electronic identity law is approved, but if it doesn't approve, this bill is completely useless. That's just the way it is! I'll have a chip, but I can't prove an electronic identity with it. That's it. So what's the point of this proposal? Except for those who will already produce. It'll help them, I understand. So if we want trouble, if we want chaos, if we want chaos, then let's approve today, prematurely and unnecessarily. You're right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u31	Thank you. Mr Běhounek once more, with a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u32	Once again, Mr President, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry I'm getting into a dispute in this area with my colleague Stanjura. But I'm very surprised he's sure he'll start making tomorrow. We have the law at second reading, if I understand. Nobody said when we were gonna put him in the third reading. In the meantime, there is great will and now it is up to you, my friends, if we really mean it as we declare here in our speeches, that we will include the law on electronic identity here after the government approves it and, in fast reading, we will try to discuss it in the short term for committee meetings, and then we may as well come to third reading, because it depends, as far as I know from the House's negotiations, on the decision to prepare the programme.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u33	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. First, Mr Grospič, then Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u34	Hello, thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Well, if the government here has declared that the Act on Electrical Identity will be completed sometime in April and will arrive here in the Chamber of Deputies, then there is nothing to prevent the Civil Card Act from being interrupted and continued after this law has arrived here, and both laws could be discussed at the same time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u35	Thank you. Now, then, Mr Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u36	The procedure proposed by Mr Běhounek may be possible, but we have heard from the Minister's mouth that, thanks to the law on electronic identity, we have to change this law. And if he's at the third reading, we're not gonna change anything! Therefore, I suggest that we wait and interrupt the second reading so that the possible changes can be read as part of the second reading and that we do not have to amend the new law in the order of months after we approve it. That makes sense! That's why I asked if because of the electronic identity law, it would be necessary to amend what we have before us today. And the Minister's answer was yes. So if we want to do this quickly, let's keep the second reading open. When it becomes clear what changes in technical nature we can project here, we are able to read this in the second reading of this proposal, this House press. But we don't have to run another press that's gonna modify what we're about to approve at third reading. If we understand each other. Even if we wait for the first reading and then we approve, we won't be working on the necessary technical changes. That's not an obstruction process, that's just logical when it turns out that because of electronic identity, we have to change this. The minister says technically, I think it's true that it's nothing political, but why are we in such a hurry? Are we really gonna do a novel? And this novel is gonna make it to the election when it's not? And we're gonna wait for the electronic identity bill, the House, the Senate, the President, and then we're gonna write a novel that's gonna change the Civil Card Act? My proposed procedure says that we are able to do this at once and in this parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u37	For the record, I would like to ask, Mr. Ambassador - are you saying that you are proposing, is that a procedural proposal? Am I supposed to feel that way? Because if this is a procedural proposal, I must put it to a vote without debate. You're saying that's why I suggest, so I'd like you to repeat that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u38	Yes, I'll do it again. The proposal is to temporarily interrupt the discussion of this press at second reading until the second reading of the Electronic Communications Act is initiated.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u39	Thank you. As this is a procedural proposal, I will call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby and put them to a vote. There's no way out, it's a procedural proposal, I'm sorry. [[to Mr Stanjuri]] First, I'm going to check you all out and ask you to log back into the system. It is not a debate, is it merely a clarification of the procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u40	Specification. I slipped my mind. I said until the beginning of the second reading of the Electronic Communications Act, of course I was thinking about starting the second reading of the Electronic Identity Act. That's just a clarification of the proposal, because I was wrong and I used one wrong word in my proposal. This is not a debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u41	Okay, it's a clarification of the procedural proposal. Checkout's over. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of interrupting this reading, as has been said, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this procedural proposal? It is a vote with order number 220, registered 128 Members, for proposal 58, against 43. This procedural proposal has not been adopted and we are continuing to discuss it. I am registering the proper application of Mr Klán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u42	Thank you for the floor. It didn't actually happen that we didn't interrupt, because then there's still a possibility that happened here last time. Return it from third to second, again. Variantly. It still exists. So then we'll put it back in that case to second reading if it turns out there's any problems with the electronic identity. It's one solution only in this case, since we haven't interrupted it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u43	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. Please, Mr Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u44	I fully respect that. The solution that my previous speaker spoke of is, of course, possible is quite skeletal. But I would like to say to colleagues who were opposed to interruptions that they will cause chaos in legislation. Consciously. You've been alerted. You want to pass a law that you know today is to be amended. And your minister told you, he didn't tell the opposition politician he would. So this is how you want to treat lawmaking? How many times is it in the House that when we vote, we already know in advance that we're going to amend it. And this law concerns all citizens! And you don't give a damn!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u45	Minister with priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u46	Mr President, honourable Members, once again. If an electronic identity law is approved, a technical amendment is likely to be needed to a certain extent. It is also true that the ID card with the chip can work and already works without the law on electronic identity. In addition, I also announced a very important proposal by my colleague Petr, who unfortunately has not yet gotten to the word, for example. returns permanent residence as a mandatory entry in the ID card. If we don't approve of it in this form, it'll just go away. So, through Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Stanjur that trying to create chaos, for example. it's not from our workshop, but unfortunately, Mr President, now it's from yours. We strive to return this clearly - we said it in second reading, we said it several times. Unfortunately, in the second previous reading, Mr Okleštěk did not read the amendment that needed to be tabled. That means, I just ask the House to take these aspects into account, for example. the return of the mandatory permanent residence data to the ID card and had Mr Petr's amendment loaded.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u47	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u48	I'm still learning. The Minister for Social Democracy blames MEPs for not adding an amendment to his law. You could have arranged that at your club, Minister, certainly. You have a lot of members there. But a simple question. The permanent housing statement - will we print or put it on the chip? And if we print it, then why do we have a chip? And if we put it on the chip, who's gonna read it from the chip if it doesn't have an electronic identity? In the bank, is that enough for you to have a reading on your chip? And if you answer that it's gonna be printed, then what's the chip for? It's that simple. Who makes the chaos there? Well, I certainly didn't. Then answer me. How's that figure gonna be on the new I.D.? Printed or on a chip? And if it's printed, what's the use of the chip, and if it's on the chip, who's gonna read it from the chip? These are simple questions, and I would expect simple and unambiguous answers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u49	Thank you. Before I give my word, I'll read my apologies. Today, from 12 to 14 o'clock on a business trip, Mr Leoš Heger apologizes, and from 12 o'clock to the end of the meeting for reasons of work, Mr Roman Váňa apologizes. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Klán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u50	Thank you for the floor. We're referring here to the problem of permanent residence and birth number. This chaos was brought here by the then reign of Petr Nečas. The Minister of the Interior Radek John came here for Public Affairs and said - first the family status must disappear from the ID card, then the permanent residence and then the birth number. So now I'm wondering what stage the birth number is at. According to the proposal I remember, it is also supposed to disappear in 2020 and be replaced by a meaningless identifier. That's when it was presented and approved. As Mr Stanjura here has said through you, so what will it be? Is the birth number gonna be on the chip, too, or is it gonna be printed? It's the same case as with the permanent stay. It'll probably be both - it'll be both physically and it'll be on the chip so we don't say who can't read the chip, so they'll look physically at what's written on the ID. But it goes against the idea of privacy, when this was argued here last term. That goes against the idea. So I really don't know that next term, whoever's gonna be here, we're not gonna be dealing with the birth number again now that we're dealing with permanent residence. Perhaps it would be more logical to straighten it out with this amendment right now, when permanent residence is being dealt with. Solve the birth number, too, because in 2020, according to the original I.D.'s proposal, it's supposed to disappear. So that's another problem that occurs here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u51	Thank you, too. Mr Stanjura will now speak with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u52	I think this is an important aspect - the protection of private data. And many agree that the birth number is the most sensitive. And I think replacing it with another identifier is correct. And then there's a theory, and then there's reality. So whoever's lucky or unlucky enough to be listed in a business register, it's pretty much everything. Almost everything. In principle, there is no protection for those who do business or are in statutory bodies. And then there's a worse case. I'm experiencing it myself. You will come to the hotel in the Czech Republic at the reception and you have two options - either to have your I.D. copied or not to be allowed there. In many hotels, that's how it is. The state knows, pretends it doesn't exist. But then he bullies the municipal authorities that this must not be published on the D.A.'s record, this is published... So on the one hand, we're overreacting, and on the other hand, we're leaving it completely out of control and completely public. And instead of having a debate on such serious issues as to how to solve this conceptually, and then looking for a technical solution, we have it turned again. We're talking - a modern chip, we're in the 21st century, technology, but these basic conceptual approaches, first of all, so it's not a public figure - and that's what the chip meets at the moment it is, and then we can have a debate about the extent of the data. What do we need, for example? the insured card, if we can also present this? What do we need a driver's license for if we can write it on a chip? And so on. But in order to read it from the chip, it has to work on the other side. Don't make that chip and nobody's gonna read it. And the Minister doesn't understand it, and he says it's the right procedure, that the one who points to the problems is creating chaos. The opposite is true. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] You must amend the law you have passed. Not us!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u53	Thank you. Mr Schwarz, Mr Fiedler and others, is now making a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u54	Vice-President, I hope I don't open up some talk about civil documents. But I've listened to you all properly, I've listened to my colleagues here from the right. The Minister does not need a defense, but I would still like to say something about it. I know what colleague Pilný is talking about, I also know what colleague Stanjura is talking about. Because everyone has a little truth about it. But I'll tell you how I see it, how easy it is. At present we have ID cards in which the identification thing, or permanent residence, should disappear, which is printed there. I beg you, let my colleague Petrů load the changeling so that the permanent residence stays there. It's important for certain files that work in our republic, maybe it's better for the police if I get an ID and I see where this person lives. I have an I.D. with a name -- sorry if electronic records don't work -- doesn't say much. Well, that's one thing. Of course, it's wrong that today we know that when the new law passes on the identification of the people we're talking about in a month, two, three or six months, or the next term, when it passes, we're going to have to make an amendment to this law. I'm sorry, but that's just the way it is. It must be said that the novel will probably have to come. But if we wait tonight with what we decide here, with that amendment from my colleague Petr, that citizen with a permanent residence disappears, and that citizen without a permanent residence is of no use to us, I'll say it politely. So that's it. Please, that's it. I'm begging you, let's not fight. Let's move on a little bit. That's the kind of novel that's been made, but this is an effective novel. That's how I see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u55	Thank you, too. Now Mr Karel Fiedler's factual remark, Mr Grospič and others will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u56	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. We've been having a bit of a discussion about our birth numbers. Then I'll contribute a little bit to the mill. The birth numbers. Colleagues, tax identification number, how they're made. Legal persons - CZ is available and the legal entity's identification number is written. How does the tax number of natural persons form? The tax number of natural persons is the birth number of a given entrepreneur, a given businessman who puts them on invoices that he puts on receipts and is obliged to give them to EET! [[Very loudly, strongly:]] We here as idiots will deal with the birth certificate number and many of us who are involved in EET must make their birth number available to everyone on EET receipts! Please, we're really crazy!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u57	Thank you. Now, Mr Grospič, President Stanjura will be prepared with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u58	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'm going to react exactly as my previous speaker did, that a little bit misses the purpose and meaning of what's going on here. And then I wanted to ask my colleague Schwarz why, when he is aware that it was to be incorporated in this law, the government hasn't done so and made the shining discovery now and here at once, when we have actually repeated second reading. We've already returned it to second reading once, now it's coming back, and suddenly it sounds like this thing was supposed to be worked out. And I wouldn't even put up with the issue of birth numbers. I think history has shown that they have their functionality and there's no need to invent other identifiers. So that's this thing. And then again, I remind you not to forget the limitations of rightfulness, because I think that's a very important moment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u59	Thank you. Now, President Stanjura, Mr Klán will be ready. It's all factual remarks. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u60	I know it's a lot easier to discuss the detail and argue, but the debate isn't really good, instead of talking about the system. Does the state know who he issued his ID? Does Mr. Schwarz's state know when he presents his ID card, can the state find out in his databases when you were born, if you have a driver's license, which insurance company you are in, where you live, if you pay your taxes? He knows! He knows! The state knows everything. And he wants us for the second time, for the third time, for the fourth time, for the fifth time! Over and over. And I can still hear it: it happens, so we're gonna reschedule. Well, we've got to say enough for once! Let the state pass on the data. He knows everything! The state has everything at its disposal. The fact that one resort doesn't tell another, what's it to a citizen? There's no way the state couldn't know who he issued his passport and who he issued his I.D., who he issued his driver's license to. He knows all about it today. But everybody wants it separately, their database, one more, one more, and over and over again! And I keep hearing, we need to know. But the state already knows. And if he can't pass on the data, it's a state error, and let's look for mechanisms for the state to pass it on to each other. And if the change goes through, we're gonna push everyone back to exchange IDs? And again it will be: Attention, attention, for the last two years. Attention, attention, last year, last two months. Our office is extremely active until December 28th. How many times have we changed IDs in recent years and licenses? Remember how many times! Some say never. I don't know how he does it. That's probably an anonymous citizen. How many times do your relatives do it? And the state knows everything and doesn't have enough. Chop-chop! He wants more and more data.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u61	Thank you. Another apology. Today from 11.30 to the end of the day, Vice-President Petr Gazdík apologizes. Another point of fact is made by Mr Klán, Mr Jakubčík will be prepared. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u62	Thank you for the floor. I'm gonna think of a parallel where I had my IDs here when we extended our term of validity. It's been a while. I was pointing out a problem with permanent residence there. Why hasn't it changed then? Now we're dealing with this in a hurry. Suddenly, it was discovered that it needed to be left behind. But I have to correct Mr Schwarz here by your means. The place of permanent residence is a compulsory optional figure. The person who comes in and says I want to keep it there, so it's just gonna be written there. The state doesn't say it can't be mentioned. The state says it's up to you if you want the permanent residence there, as well as the birth number or family status, you want to be listed. It's up to you for that. And then I'm responsible for the fact that it says so. Maybe somebody steals my ID, so I'll take responsibility for it. The state has offered me data protection. That's what he offered me to choose. So here I would like to say exactly that this is a mandatory optional figure. This is a fundamental difference from mandatory data. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u63	Thank you, too. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Ivan Gabal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u64	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I've just seen that I have a chip in my ID since May 29, 2012. Chip. I'm not going to investigate, and I don't even know what's on the chip anymore, but that means since then, it was possible to get the chip by individual choice. It seems to me that the debate is coming to a point where the House is dealing with conceptually electronic identity, which is to be available to citizens and what is to be done voluntarily. In my opinion, we're not going to discuss that here. So I would ask the Minister to give some conceptual proposal on how to deal with this and whether to set up a task force or something else, but simply to debate whether or not I have a permanent residence on my ID card is, in my opinion, either an individual choice or there will be serious reasons for it to be there. Other data that could be, I don't know, individually dangerous to me, or I'd like to keep it a secret, leave it on the chip. But someone should decide this conceptually and then we should vote it out. What I'm hearing here is really debating what's on the chip and what to print, and I don't think we're voting here, even if we go crazy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u65	Thank you, too. Mr. Stanjura's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u66	A man, but even the House, is to learn from mistakes. Mr Gabal says he's had almost five years on his ID card. And what's that for? But it's not your fault, it's the state's fault. Do we understand each other? I'm not criticizing you. We're going to do something similar today, and we've already had experience of having it there, but it's no use to us. That was the content of my procedural proposal, so we don't rush into making things that are going to be done, they're going to be implemented, but they're really useless. From my point of view, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the chip there for nothing, but it's not your fault. It's the state's fault.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u67	Thank you. Mr Fiedler's point of view. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u68	I'm thinking about this debate, what's going on here, and I'm trying to put myself in the role of a post office officer sitting on a counter at some housing estate where the name Novák, the last name Novák, is quite common. There's a lot of first name for Lukáš today. And Lukáš Novák will come there to pick up the recommended mail or with a receipt, no birth number, no permanent residence - and how does the post office officer know that he's giving it to the right Lukáš Novák, if he can live in the housing estate, maybe three and he doesn't have to know them? How's he gonna make a clear I.D.? So is it going to be a birth number on the shipments, or what? Where are we getting to? Just hypothetically. Can any of the plaintiffs answer that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u69	I beg you, don't shout at yourself, gentlemen, speak properly on the microphone.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u70	Yeah, a picture. We know how it is with people, how the machines do it. I don't think it's the right... It's one of the arguments, but I think it's a permanent residence, because it's written at that address, it's a lot of security.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u71	Thank you. Mr. Stanjura's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u72	I think that the role that Mr Fiedler spoke of is simply solvable. But you must have those chip readers at the post office. And that's not what we're talking about. Then the chip makes sense. Then yes. That's why I'm talking about it, it's useless when you can't use the data from the chip anywhere. The moment you go in there, you put a reader on it, and a person identifies you pretty easily. And that's not what we're talking about. And that's the problem. [[12.00 hours]] And don't tell me you're being held up. Maybe you don't care. That's possible, but the debate really isn't that simple. What next time? Shouldn't we have a printed shoe size to check it out for us? The photo isn't conclusive, this isn't conclusive, ID number isn't conclusive, passport number isn't conclusive. What's the use of permanent residence? The Minister will know from his head, I don't know how many people we have with a permanent stay at City Hall, in the newsrooms. What if there's two from the same town with the same name on the same report room? Where do you live? City Hall. Well, here's another Lukáš Novák. Where does he live? Also at City Hall. And I have a son, and I'm after Lukáš, and he also lives in City Hall. Shouldn't we be dealing with the problem that we have too many people who live on paper at City Hall? And what's the reason they have the numbers? But we'll have it printed, Upper Square 47 in Opava, right, and we know right away it's City Hall, and there's plenty of citizens there. I think there's a lot more than one thousand in 60 thousand cities. And the Minister certainly knows the number for the Republic, how many citizens have permanent residence, such an important key figure, and it says the seat of the town hall. Everyone who's been in municipal politics knows what I'm talking about. Everyone. It's a Republic problem. Everywhere. But we have to have it printed - city hall. Maybe there's a picture of the town hall.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u73	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. Thank you. I'll read two more apologies. Today, from 12.15 to the end of the day for personal reasons, Mr Karel Fiedler apologizes. Today, from 12 o'clock to the end of the day, for reasons of work, Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický apologizes. I'm handing over the meeting management.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u74	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen, we will continue. If no one signs up for the general debate - the Minister yet for the general debate, or with the final word? In general. In the general debate, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u75	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to return to the substance of the proposal. In the past, the state invented a ID card with a chip and let the citizens of the Czech Republic buy this ID card for 500 crowns. That $500 I.D. was of no use at all. The 500 crowns that weren't invented by this government, but by the previous governments, money was thrown into the trash. There was nothing to record on the chip. The added value of this ID card for 500 crowns was zero. You have merely pulled, Mr President Stanjur, citizens out of the pocket of 500 crowns for nothing. We want to make a rack tonight. The basic identification on that medium is given by the European eIDAS Directive, which says the minimum of what is to be used for electronic identification of the person concerned, and we also add an electronic signature to enable the citizen concerned to identify himself in relation to the authorities. In addition, there will be a so-called commercial zone on the chip, where the citizen can record other data that he sees fit towards banks and other institutions, as permitted by the law in question. It is only for us to approve this proposal today to move to third reading, so that we can vote back the mandatory data printed on the ID card, permanent residence, and at the same time this information will be on the chip. For example, if you go to the bank, they download information from the chip and speed up communication. Despite all this, the permanent residence address will be printed on the ID card and will be duplicated on the chip, for example, for communication with the bank. Why not? Nothing more, nothing less. The debate on the next law, which will probably be here in the Chamber of Deputies in April or May - and the big question is whether we will be able to approve in this parliamentary term, we will do everything we can to make sure that yes - the effectiveness of the two laws is so distant from each other that, in essence, the technical amendment that will have to come back here should not restrict citizens. Nothing. It's just a technical specification. That's what the Home Office specialists told me, and I have no reason not to believe them. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know, I don't know how there's gonna be any photos, but let's, uh, let's have the debate in the future. This proposal, which is here today, returns permanent residence to play as a mandatory figure. I think the figure is correct in relation to the authorities of the state. In the past, the former Chamber of Deputies, the former Government, has taken the impression that this figure is not mandatory there. I'm afraid it would complicate people's lives more than healthy. This means returning this mandatory figure, allowing people over 70 years of age not to have to change their ID card before, I believe, 25 years from now, which in most cases will no longer be necessary, and implementing the eIDAS Directive, which tells us what minimum data are for mandatory identification, and allowing citizens of the Czech Republic to obtain a chip ID - friends, not for CZK 500, but for free. For free. These are the basic outlines of this proposal. The debate was trash. For the most part, I don't know if she had anything to do with the subject under discussion. Thanks for her, though. I will ask you to move this proposal to the third reading, but of course there is a colleague of Petrů with his proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u76	I thank the Minister of the Interior for his speech in the general debate. I'm asking if anyone else is applying. I don't see anyone. I'm done with the general debate. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. The rapporteur? Mr. Secretary? It's not like that. I can therefore start a detailed debate with Mr Jiří Petrů. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u77	Thank you, Mr President. My esteemed colleagues, my colleagues, I am replacing my colleague Oklešťek today, who has put his amendment into the electronic system. Because he's excused for business reasons, I'm taking the liberty of representing him. I'm signing up for Amendment 5374. The amendment proposes that the administrative fee of CZK 200 should not be levied also in cases where the current ID is valid for more than ten years. Maintaining the current state of affairs, as it is today, would be disadvantageous for citizens over the age of 70, who are issued with a civil certificate valid for 35 years, and for citizens born before 1 January 1936. These persons would exclude the amendment in the submitted text from the possibility of obtaining a free new identity card with an electronic contact chip in a reasonable time frame. That is all, please, and thank you for your support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-03-ps2013-055-08-002-022.u78	I thank Mr Jiří Petr. Who else in the detailed debate? I don't see anybody, and I'm ending the debate in detail. During the detailed debate, there was no proposal to vote. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. It's not like that. In that case, I can end the second reading of this proposal. Thank you to the Minister of the Interior, thank you to the rapporteur and end with item 22. The next item is the item
