ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u1	83. Members of Roman Váňa, Milan Chovanec, Igor Jakubčík, Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová, Bronislav Schwarz and others for the issue of constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended by the Constitutional Act No. 300/2000 Coll. House printing 1021/ - third reading I ask that Mr Roman Váňa and the rapporteur of the guarantee committee take the position of the rapporteur's chair, the constitutional committee was a guarantee committee, and Mr Marek Benda is the rapporteur. The proposal for rejection and amendments were not tabled at second reading. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House press 1021/3. I ask the representatives of the appellants whether they wish to speak before the general debate is opened. He's interested. So, Mr. plaintiff, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u2	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we got to the third reading of the amendment to the Czech Security Act, although it is not anything that would stand or cost life in this country. After all, the Czech Republic is the sixth safest country in the world right now, and we have high-quality weapons legislation, we have a sophisticated system for obtaining weapons certificates, our citizens - the holders of arms certificates are a group of people who are quite exceptional in that we know everything about them, we know what their medical condition is, we know that they have passed practical and theoretical tests, we know that they are law-abiding, they don't even commit offenses, because otherwise they would have lost their weapons licenses. So the Czech Republic doesn't really have a problem. But the problem seems to be Europe. At this time, the European Commission is coming up with a directive on restricting the legal possession of weapons, trying to disarm the European population at a time when - perhaps it is just a feeling, but citizens have it - when the sense of security is reduced in Europe and perhaps in the Czech Republic, because of course we are part of Europe and we perceive all the worries and fears of all the countries within Europe. From this point of view, we have begun to consider how to increase not only the feeling, but to increase security within this country, and I think that what should attack every policy, every government, is to turn to the citizens of its own country. We want to give citizens the right to participate in the security of the Czech Republic, including with their own weapons, legally held. I think that not only this highly symbolic message to our public that this state is on the side of its citizens and that it is counting on them is very important, but the prosecution for the validity of this nonsense directive will also be important, whether or not we have to implement it. [[9.30 hours]] This law is meant for the future. As I said in the beginning, we don't really have any problems right now. In the Czech Republic, even crime is not committed with weapons or legally held or illegally held. These are isolated cases, essentially in the order of the promilion of the number of all crimes. But the future doesn't have to be this bright and pink, which is why it would be good to prepare for it. This law, which we should approve today, creates a framework. He doesn't do anything about himself, let's face it. He doesn't do anything about himself. It is only a framework that does not invite citizens to arm themselves, nor does it simplify access to weapons, or even their use. There's no such thing in the law. That law is certainly not at the level of the American Amendment to the Constitution. It is for quite different purposes and it is infinite, whereas in this law we say directly when by law we can limit the right to own weapons. It is not acceptable to create any militias, even in the sense of armed groups of political parties, of course not at this time and in this place, but also in the sense of any militias and similar things that would not be under the control of the state. This law expressly prohibits, does not permit. But for the future. I'm sure you know that the Department of Defense is already working on a system that has so far been known as the defence unions. That is, so that citizens can engage in the defence of this country as they can now in the framework of active advances, but that option will be extended and more intense. Similarly, in the area of security, when the Ministry of the Interior prepares a system of opportunities for citizens to participate in security. And let's face it, we can increase the security of this country, not just the one with the gun, but everyone. Even by knowing how to behave in emergency situations - in floods, in fires, but even in terrorist attacks. And every citizen in this country should know how to behave in such a situation and not burden a security system, which will then address the real threats and not have to worry about the safety of everyone separately. Because, while ensuring the security and defence of the state is, of course, the fundamental role of the state and the state does not resign, we must also say openly that it is simply not possible to ensure the security of everyone at every second in every place. Each person has to think about his life and whether or not what he does is safe where he goes, with whom he is associating. And as if something happens to you when you break your leg or cut yourself, you provide first aid, and then there will surely be a rescue service with a doctor, with paramedics, and it will provide you with professional help, just as if you start burning a pan on the stove and you try to put it out - you may have a fire extinguisher at home, but a lot of people don't have it - and only then, if you don't make it, the firemen will come and save you, so it also applies in that safety. Everyone should have the right and the opportunity to defend themselves, and of course he's coming to help the police, no one is questioning that. So I would be very grateful and grateful if the Chamber of Deputies today, in its third reading, would adopt the proposal for this amendment to the Czech Security Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u3	I thank you and open the debate in which Mrs Černochová joined first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u4	Beautiful morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, colleagues. We have come a long way and I am very pleased that the amendment to the Constitutional Security Act of the Czech Republic is being discussed today in its third reading and it will be possible to finish the legislative process in the Chamber of Deputies of Parliament, for which legal holders of arms are waiting with suspense. According to the Committees of the Chamber of Deputies, the majority of the parliamentary parties across the political spectrum for the adoption of this amendment to the Constitutional Law. And I am also very pleased and thank you for the fact that we have managed to dispel a number of doubts about a large proportion of the opponents of this proposal and that there has been majority support in both committees. During the introduction of this amendment, a relatively large hysteria from some media broke out to the public, which, although unfortunately, often did not understand the issue itself, liked to express itself in the spirit that it would be possible to shoot a terrorist, hand out weapons, the Czech Amendment of the Constitution, as in the USA, arises that the State resigned to protect its own citizens, the Czech Wild West, that there is room for militias and folk militias and that people will be able to take justice into their own hands, and so on and so on and so on and so forth. I believe that a number of things have finally been explained to the public, set to the right and that the period of unauthorized attacks on legal arms holders has already ended, who clearly and legitimately oppose the implementation of the European Union's directive on arms, which is absolutely restrictive and whose further tightening in the future no one is even hiding from Brusel. This is just the beginning. As I said in the first reading of the proposal, the proposed amendment to the Constitutional Act on Security of the Czech Republic is a symbol and declaration of the state's trust in the legal holder of arms and respect for their right to acquire, possess, carry and carry a weapon in order to protect their own and their surroundings. At the same time, this is an imaginary backup point on which we can build on further amendments to the Arms Act, which can mitigate the negative effects of the European Union directive. Let us openly admit that this amendment will not lead to a halt to the absurd weapons directive of the European Union, but it is a certain first step so that the greatest nonsense contained therein does not affect legal arms holders. As you know, the European Union is based on several pillars of different policies. One of them is the pillar where the internal security of states falls. Yet internal security can be regarded as the high ground of every country, and it is up to us to build our security and defenses and how we want to protect our citizens. If a legally armed citizen wants to become an active part of the country's security in the future, he should be able to do so and, in my opinion, is partially excluded from the effects of the directive. This has already been discussed by Mr. Chairman of the Vanya Security Committee. It should be noted that the directive in this text, which was finally adopted, was not meant to be at all. And our government was supposed to stand against her from the beginning with full weight instead of just wandering around for a few months. In the end, the subsequent activity was unfortunately useless to us. As one of the appellants of this law, I am well aware of the need for such a step, although this amendment, as I say, will absolutely not prevent the adoption of a directive by the European Union. But it will certainly make it easier for us to negotiate before the European Court of Justice. I would like to mention at least one of the many things that, at the same time, I feel unknowingly, but perhaps purposefully behind. Even at these two readings here and from our debate, it was clear that we are mainly revolved around the length of weapons, around magazines, and that we are not dealing with this essential for lovers of military history, for our museums, for people who are somehow involved in commemorating history and historical weapons. [[9.40 hours]] They will have to register newly damaged weapons, alarm and signal weapons as well as reproductions of historical weapons in the case of one or two-armed so-called. foreplay. This mentioned need for the registration of weapons so far freely held, with which there is only a minimum security risk - and, by the way, the Czech Republic has indeed been very forward with the regime of weapons depreciation - perhaps if weapons elsewhere in Europe had been devalued in the same way as in the Czech Republic, there was no problem at all. Unfortunately, some countries have fallen asleep, and then, as it is, on the basis of the principle of collective guilt, it is said that weapons are being misjudged everywhere, but it is not true. Modern reproduction of historical weapons. This is the thing that I would like to stop at, because here it is actually absolutely absurd that this directive will touch historical replicas or original historical weapons. And when I was looking at some numbers, how many people could it touch, imagine that it would be the number 11 350 reenactors. And this directive affects private and club property by an estimated over 450 miles. Crowns. Not to mention cultural values, historical conventions. I'm only talking about people at this point and about money, but I think it's important that this is how it sounds. Many of us go to various historical shows, sometimes even as municipal politicians we participate in them directly, whether as mayors, captains, mayors. And I don't know if what we're getting is that actually, if this directive is being implemented, for example. in the reconstruction of the battle of the three emperors near Slavkov, where this reconstruction of the battle takes place each year, are there always tens of thousands of people who are excited to look at the enthusiasts in uniforms and recall the history of Napoleonic wars, so maybe after implementing this directive instead of period rifles will have brooms? We have seen it in France, where French soldiers in old uniforms also participated in one historic battle with brooms in hand. We can't let this happen, colleagues and colleagues. We cannot allow our cultural wealth, a lot of museums in every region, to have a huge problem in every region, in the form of having natural persons to acquire a gun license and these weapons would have to be registered. Can you imagine registering a cannon from the Napoleonic Wars, including its storage in a prescribed vault? This is all in this absurd directive. As the Ministry of Interior itself states, the security risks associated with these weapons, i.e. the weapons impaired, i.e. iron, which is on the walls, weapons alarm and signaling, as well as reproductions of historical weapons, and the security risks associated with these weapons are absolutely minimal and can be effectively addressed not by the administrative obligations of registration, but by the establishment of specific technical specifications. These measures will lead to a significant administrative burden on the authorities of the State. It's an agenda for civil administration in the field of arms. This could increase by up to 50 percent when it comes to the number of registered weapons! 50 percent increase in agenda! Does this government really want to be a government at least at the end of the parliamentary term that doesn't want to be a more bureaucratic burden on the state apparatus? I hope so. On the other hand, it can be estimated that a significant number of these weapons will not be brought to registration by their holders at all, e.g. fear of further tightening due to simple defiance, human resistance and protest against this new regulation or to ignorance. These persons will again be exposed to the risk of legal sanctions, including possible criminal penalties, for security purposes of absolutely irrelevant importance. I do not see the problem of the democratic state declaring, through its constitution, the right of citizens to legal possession of arms, if the legislative framework for holding arms sufficiently guarantees that the holders of arms will be blameless, self-righteous, appropriately qualified and informed persons, which our rule of law answers almost without error. This means that there is absolutely no need to change anything in this regard. No one, nor supranational or intergovernmental institutions, has the right to dictate to us, a sovereign democratic state, how it wants to ensure its defence and its security, what confidence it is to show against its trusted and blameless citizens. Our historical experience is different from that of other countries in Western Europe, and yet it is possible to hold a gun, after fulfilling all legal conditions, for its safety by the law of every citizen of the Czech Republic. There is no reason to change anything about this, especially since there have been no problems with the practice of legal possession of weapons in our country. Of course we do, we remember a few excesses, but it's really a minimum. And when I saw the current statistics of the Ministry of the Interior, my colleagues and colleagues, I have good news for you - the number of crimes committed by legal arms holders in 2016 has fallen! We're still putting the number 0.06, but the number is now 0.047 or something about 0.05! Which even if it were the 0.06, it's really a negligible number. The ban on legal possession of weapons is and has been, in many cases, part of the expression of non-democratic and totalitarian regimes that eliminate any threat of the inevitability of their citizens with their persecution. Even in times of non-freedom, many citizens were not willing to give up their weapons and hand it over to the state, at the risk of far more severe sanctions - executions, murders of entire families, etc. This is proof that disproportionate restrictions will lead to one - the transfer of arms holders to illegality, the rise in the black market, the loss of control over weapons. Low crime with a legally held firearm is an argument why you don't approach any restrictions. Draconic regulation of legal possession of weapons does not prevent terrorist attacks and ensure greater security. On the contrary - and I say it repeatedly - gives terrorists even more space. The armed forces of the state cannot always be everywhere, even if we have many times as many cops as we do today. Some symbiosis and trust should work between armed and security forces and congregations with legal arms holders, or cooperation between them may also develop, as my previous speakers have said in the case of defence societies or associations that should deal with the agenda associated with the integrated rescue system. And it's not even true that every cop, with all due respect to them, is better trained to handle weapons than, for example, some trained civilian holder of a legal weapon. That's just the reality, and we who sometimes go to those shooting ranges, we know this and we see it with our own eyes. [[9.50 hours]] The fight against arms regulation is not about the possibility of the weapon being released and the amount of legally held weapons being increased. The aim is to maintain the current state of affairs without punishing those who have fulfilled the legal conditions and continue to act in accordance with the law, do not abuse weapons and simply follow the rules of the game. Flat restrictions don't lead anywhere, only honest ones always do, and the dishonest ones always find their way around the law. We see it in the EET, we see it in the control report and in many other such interferences into our non-freedom. Thomas Jefferson said: "Laws that forbid carrying weapons are of such a nature that they will disarm only those who are not determined or inclined to commit crimes. " Therefore, my fellow Members, thank you for putting this point firmly on today, for coming in a number that I may remember in 2013 at the setting-up session of the Chamber of Deputies, when we all made a promise here, and I hope very much and believe and have hope, as well as the people who are watching us, that there will be 120 Members and Members here today who will raise their hand for this proposal. Thank you so much for that.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u5	Thank you, Madame. Next up, Mr. Vice-President of the Úsvit Martin Lank movement is claiming priority rights. You have the floor, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear Government, my fellow Members, many arguments have already been made here, which I also want to say to you, so maybe I will repeat myself a little on some points, but I think that repetition is the mother of wisdom. And in connection with this amendment to the Constitutional Law, there is a great deal of nonsense in the public, such that I think it can't be the ignorance of their authors, but it must be the intention. It is no secret that I have supported this bill from the very beginning, which in the Constitution establishes the right of a citizen to acquire, hold and carry a weapon. Of course, for fulfilling all legal conditions that are not easy. Honestly, I don't give a damn who the law is, whether I'm in opposition or coalition. In my opinion, politics does not belong to such a serious matter, and it is merely common sense. I hope we still have some. To be clear, it is the right of citizens depending on their voluntary decision, i.e. no call for mass arms, or the obligation to acquire a weapon, or perhaps even to hand out weapons somewhere. All we want is to maintain the current state of affairs where our arms and ammunition law is called one of the best in the world's comparison. So, really, no Wild West. As I have said in the long run, and it has already been said here, the police cannot always be everywhere, and certainly not right away. That's just a fact, and it's absolutely no complaint towards the police. In the current situation, where even seconds can play a role in the event of an attack, security will always depend partly on each of us. The case is recently from Israel. There he decided to drive the truck into the people at the bus stop. An armed civilian was hit, completely exemplary. First, he assessed the situation as to whether it was just an unfortunate car accident. When the assailant began to turn to run into people again, he eliminated him with his weapon. This undoubtedly prevented other victims from their lives. Compare this with similar attacks in other states, and what the consequences were. Yes, Israel is in a different situation, and virtually everyone there has been served in the armed forces. But it should be noted that among the holders of arms licenses in the Czech Republic there is a large part of the members of the security forces who have acquired their own private weapon. I mean, people trained, no amateur gunslingers. In theory, we can have thousands of extra people on the streets who will not only be able to intervene if needed, but also know how. The second point is the current proposal for a directive by the European Commission. Any move that can complicate efforts to disarm citizens is thus more than welcome. If there is a chance that, following the adoption of the constitutional law, the provisions of Article 4 (1) will apply to our situation. 2 The Treaty on European Union, which means that the European Union respects the fundamental functions of the State, in particular those relating to ensuring territorial integrity, maintaining public order and protecting national security, in particular national security remains the sole responsibility of each Member State, so I think we are practically obliged to try. Not to mention the fact that the proposal also contains interpreted nonsense - e.g. the categorization of weapons according to magazine capacity. Trays - for those of you who do not know it - are not the main parts of the weapon, are not registered in any way, nor are their sales limited. I really can't imagine how this should be dealt with in practice. Because if I have a self-loading rifle with a ten-gun clip, everything's fine, but in a few seconds, I'm gonna replace that clip and put a 20-gun clip in it, so it's all completely illegal, overall, and I'm gonna lose my gun ID. I really can't imagine how this should work in practice. And that only a few people are involved? According to the latest estimates of the Ministry of Interior, the directive in the Czech Republic would have an impact on more than 400,000 weapons. Who's gonna replace these people? But there's another thing that matters. Fighting terrorism by taking weapons from decent, law-abiding people is a complete nonsense with forgiveness. Not only does it not help, it even hurts. Guns will only be given to criminals who, by some principle, are already coughing from a high point of view of laws and directives. The idea of a terrorist who applies for the test of competence for the purpose of the planned attack, waits for the date to be published, in the meantime studies the relevant laws and acquires the basics of safe handling of weapons, then tests for a weapons license, gets confirmation from the attending physician, waits for the issuing of the gun license itself, applies to the police for a purchase permit, and waits for him to be dealt with, pays all fees and stamps, and then carries a gun to register with the police, would be absolutely smiling if, for God's sake, someone didn't mean it. Unfortunately, getting an illegal and unregistered weapon is faster and even cheaper in the Czech Republic. And in this direction it is necessary to focus, although I believe that the Czech Republic does not have such a fundamental problem as some other countries. Yes, if we arm the legal holders, outside the criminals, they'll still have guns from the state armed forces, to which many people here refer and rely on them. I trust ours, the many people who work in them, I know and appreciate them. But frankly, I do not believe much in the European Union. Here it's good to remember that the greatest efforts to take weapons from the public have been made in history by the greatest dictators: Hitler, Stalin, Lenin. If politicians are afraid of their own citizens and do not want to give them the chance to defend themselves, it is at least suspicious. Dear colleagues, we are elected representatives of a sovereign state and we answer to no one but our own citizens. Let us show that we will not jump blindly and silently on every nonsense that comes from Brussels. As has also been said here, there are over 300,000 holders of arms licenses in this republic. Believe me, if these people were a problem, we already know. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u7	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Mr Jan Farský is now reporting for the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you, as Vice-President of the Constitutional Legal Committee, of one important document that when this law came to the Chamber of Deputies, I had doubts as to whether this proposal could make any difference to the implementation of the directive. And the response of the Parliamentary Institute is quite obvious. He can't. It doesn't change anything. This directive will be implemented regardless of whether we adopt today's amendment to the Constitutional Security Act or not. So, let's just say, from the other side, the novel doesn't do anything wrong, it doesn't do anything negative. She basically states what is not contrary to anything, and states that internal security is a matter of the state. However, it also notes that the Treaty on European Union in its Article 4 (4). 2. So by adopting this law, we will achieve nothing at all. Parliamentary Institute, and I was not the first to ask, because when I submitted this question to the Parliamentary Institute, if the amendment to the Constitutional Security Act, the Parliamentary Press 1021, changes something about the obligation to implement the arms directive, I was told that they had already received this question and this position is. It's available. It is available not only to Members, I think it is also available to the public, and it is very clear. So I want to say, and I hope that, as it sounds, it will also be perceived, I can imagine that it is debatable if the arms directive in any way restricts terrorism. But what is not debatable at all is that the amendment to the Constitutional Security Act does not restrict the directive at all. So today we stand before joining the electoral vote by lying to them that we are putting up with this holy fight with this awful European Union by adopting a law on constitutional security that we can outsmart the European Union. If we abuse these people and tell them a story about how we fight for them, how we are willing to change the Constitution for them, just so that the European Union doesn't reach them. I don't have a habit of lying to people. I'm not in the habit of telling people stories that aren't true and pretending to be a great brave warrior. Once again, the adoption of this constitutional law will not change the implementation of the directive, our duty will remain. If we want to change what the directive requires, then the way is by other laws. Because it concerns internal security, so it's about the regulation of the defence law, maybe it's about the regulation of the arms law, which, as has been said here, and I agree with that, we have one of the best in the world. That's why I'm saying in advance, and it's from the perspective of constitutional law, it's not about content, it's not about the debate that sounds in flame words, how hopefully we're going to defend security here today. There's no such thing happening here today. The only thing that's happening here today is that there's a voter decoy made here to get a sense of somebody taking care of them. No. It was supposed to be in Brussels. It should have taken care of the previous negotiations on the directive. There was a way of editing and changing. There have also been substantial adjustments and amendments to this Directive before it has been approved. So I repeat again and finally: the adoption of a constitutional law has nothing to do with the directive, nothing will change it. So please let us stop using this argument of the holy struggle with the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Your performance raised several factual points. First Mr Jaroslav Holík, then Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, then Mr Benešík.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I consider the right of a person to carry a legally weapon, a person who has fulfilled all conditions, to be one of the fundamental facts of the rights of a person in this Republic. And to use it for my protection, protection of my loved ones, and protection of property, I also take it for granted. Yes, it was said here that this law does not change anything about the European directive. But in any case, we have to show here that we are a proud sovereign state, not that we will clone ourselves according to what Brusel tells us to do. I ask again - are we citizens of a proud republic or just sheep who will be cornered?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will speak with a factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would only react briefly in fact to the previous speaker of Mr Jan Farský. It is what we, as Parliament of the Czech Republic, will implement, what kind of crap from the European Union matters also to us. So if we use common sense, we do not always have to adopt every directive in the European Union. So let's not say we're going down again anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u13	Thank you. Mr Ondřej Benešík is now making a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u14	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is very nutritious and interesting. However, I would also like to stress that this draft, although I have great sympathy for it, will not change anything about the European Union directive discussed. Basically, it doesn't affect her at all. And if it sounds like we've got some crap coming from Brussels and that Brusel has agreed something, let's just say who approved it in Brusel. It was the Council of Ministers, namely the formation of the Interior Ministers. Let us say who the ministers of the interior of the Member States have agreed to this. That's not Brussels. These are the ministers of the interiors of each Member State. They were Slovák, Slovinec, Nizozemec, Brit. Let's say who they were. Of course, the proposal came from the European Commission. In the European Commission, each Member State shall have one representative. How did our only representative Věra Jourová vote? And then let us say how our MEPs voted. At least ours for the Czech Republic. That's Brusel. It's not somebody there, some clerk. That's us. These are our broadcasts or elected politicians. I don't agree with the directive. In my opinion, it limits, absolutely unnecessary, some of the activities that I support, such as military historical clubs. But let's say who Brusel is. They're national politicians. They are politicians from individual Member States. And it would be a good idea to have those here who supported it. It certainly wasn't KDU-ČSL.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, with a factual remark, Mr Martin Lank. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u16	Good morning again. I would like to respond to what has been said here that the law will not change anything, that we will still implement the directive. Well, I wouldn't. Firstly, the action is brought, and secondly, whether the directive will be implemented will be decided again by Parliament, probably by our successors. And we're going to see what composition they're going to meet here, and if there's any need for the will not to implement the directive here, and then we'll just have to bear the possible consequences. So I'd be a little more careful in these courts after all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u17	Thank you. Now, I'm going to take my turn for a moment, and I'd like to respond to that in fact, too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u18	Good morning, honourable Members. Vice-President Radek Vondráček has a word on the point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u19	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. I also want to respond briefly to the performance of my colleague Farský. That question about the Parliamentary Institute, probably the previous one, I was asking, I got an answer. And at least I hope it went well, but through my assistant's e-mail, all the Members should get the analysis, and we should have it at our disposal. So, as a lawyer, I agree that, in relation to Union law and European law, what we are adopting and approving today cannot really have an impact. We can't stop it. On the other hand, I attach myself to what the appellant has said here in his introductory words that this is a symbolic act. We don't really mess with our legal order, at least I'm of the opinion. And what can we, as MPs, actually do? We can face something here because the information comes from the outside. And I had the opportunity to talk to people who negotiated terms at that administrative level. Home Secretary's got it all worked out, they don't write it. And if I'm going to believe their words and what was happening there, it was in a manipulative way, they were basically swept away, and the voice of common sense and factual comments from those Czech officials were not answered. The directive is just stupid, it doesn't make sense. We will not prevent its implementation by adopting this law, but as a sovereign House here we will express our position and I think that this will not harm the constitutional order of the Czech Republic. For this reason, although I disagree as a lawyer, I will vote in favour of this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u20	Thank you to Vice-President Radek Vondráček. Mr Martin Lank is now preparing for a factual remark by Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u21	I've already spoken, but there's something I'd like to talk about. I forgot to say one more thing. It was also said here that this law is basically harmless. Maybe toothless, but he's so harmless he can't hurt. So when I think about what we've already adopted here, it's sometimes the laws that are really harmful and hurt from my point of view, so to accept one more that doesn't hurt anything, I don't think it's such a tragedy anymore, and on the contrary, I completely support the view that it's a clear message and a declaration that we still have some part of our national sovereignty.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u22	Thank you for keeping time. With another factual remark, Mrs Černochová, then Mr Fiedler. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u23	Thank you, Mr Vice-President, by your means, I would like to say to my colleague Farský: So what? That the Parliamentary Institute will write that our proposal does not conflict with our Constitution, that it is in line with constitutional order, why can't we accept it? I admit I didn't quite understand the performance. I don't know if my colleague Farský is a member of the Constitutional Legal Committee. Yesterday, we had a bit of a laugh about Mr. Senator Lásek, who defended the Senate's views here, and in between, we said that there was some kind of a run-of-the-mill principle in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and that, in fact, what kind of opinion is that, of course, my opinion is that everyone here has the right to say anything. But through the Vice-President, Mr Farský, the Constitutional Legal Committee approved this in a proportion of votes 11 pros, no one opposed and one Member abstained. So I would venture to doubt that we would be doing something here that has no support, which even the Parliamentary Institute does not question in any way. It is the law of the legislature, and we have often put here these various resolutions, declarations, the last time the TOP 09 club yesterday, when they wanted to include in the agenda a point that concerned expressing disagreement with what is happening in Moscow. [[The President draws attention to the time]] Did we blame you here, too? We didn't. So please let the constitutional committee and other committees express their opinion in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u24	Mr Fiedler, then Mr Farský, then Mr Benešík. Your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u25	Thank you. It has already been said here by my previous speakers and, basically, my colleague, Černochová, has now said the essentials. So I will focus on the fact that we will have to implement the directive. I believe that I have registered the statement of Minister Chovanec, his opinion is that we will not implement it or that we should not. Let us really behave as your colleague Vašek Votava says. The Chamber of Deputies is a sovereign, and we are a sovereign, so let us act accordingly and act accordingly. We don't have to implement this directive like we don't want mandatory quotas, and we don't want what someone's forcing us to do. So let us really act, acting according to our best knowledge and conscience. And I, although it's not my area of expertise, I'm not a member of the Security Committee, I don't feel like we're accepting something here that's going to change the current state of affairs. We're just declaring that what has worked so far more or less successfully with us, with little exceptions, is that we intend to insist. Nothing more, nothing less. And we are declaring that we are going to insist on this despite the fact that we need to adopt a directive that I have doubts about. I am a member of the Committee on Petitions and we have discussed a petition where I have registered the great agreement of all the parliamentary factions in this Chamber of Deputies, representatives of armsmen, representatives of various associations, where basically what Jana Černochová said on the Constitutional Legal Committee during the vote was an absolute majority in the debate on the petition that was just about this directive. Exceptionally an absolute match. So let us continue, let the directive of the European Union live on with its life.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u26	Thank you. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Farský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u27	Thank you. First of all, I would like to thank all those who have spoken after my speech, standard in that no one has questioned that the actual adoption of this law has no effect on the implementation of the directive. And it's not about me saying that this amendment to the Constitutional Security Act is wrong. I have no problem with the text, and the text also corresponds to the existing legislation that we have. I'm just upset about the fake, empty argument that it has something to do with the directive. He doesn't. We can't move a millimeter. Those paths to keeping our arms bill, to defend ourselves, if we have this feeling, our space, are completely different. It is not the way of this constitutional law. Personally, I don't care about the constitutional law, I don't care about the false argument that this constitutional law will change anything about the implementation of the directive. It doesn't change anything. And I'm glad that everyone who spoke before me accepted this and no one questioned it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u28	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. A number of factual remarks have grown again, so Minister Pilný, who has applied with priority rights, must wait. I'd point to the log that you're logged in. Mr Benešík now, then Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u29	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat again what my colleague Farský has already said. This amendment of the law, although I personally support it, has basically nothing to do with the directive. That's the whole message. It's kind of a cover-up. And we're really trying to calm down, for example. here our colleagues at the gallery, those who are watching us on TV screens, that we are trying to pee on the European Union. [[10.20 hours]] We had to fight against this, in my opinion, in many respects a bad directive in completely different fields. The battle was supposed to be fought somewhere else. The Council of Ministers, the European Parliament and the European Commission. And I'm hoping someone here will tell me who voted and how and who and how they advocated, for example. on military-historical clubs that will create a major problem if this directive is implemented. And one more little point. I'm sorry, I said the wrong thing here, wrong that the directive was initiated by the European Commission. Of course, the European Commission co-approved this directive in the approval triangle, but the initiative came from the Member States, that is true. Member States that are facing terrorism and, unfortunately, in my opinion, in many respects, they are pouring out this child with a bathtub. But it is quite possible that if we, within the Visegrad Four, were trying to make sure that some of our colleagues, some of our partner states were depreciating weapons as they should be depreciated, not by simply returning them back again, then perhaps this would not have happened at all in my opinion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u30	Thank you. Now, with Mrs Černochová's point of fact, then Mr Junek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u31	Thank you. Why do I always feel before the election that the people's people pour holy water on each other, have a few fathers, and feel like we're gonna forget everything. Through the Vice-President, Mr Benešík, it was you who did not support my resolution, my proposal to be included in the programme in November 2015 when I stood before you and asked you to support the so-called 'Supreme Minister'. a yellow card that we could submit under the European directive. That way, the whole process would have stopped, certainly other states would have joined us, and we didn't have to have the problem here. So if anyone here is being hypocritical, it's you. And by the way, you said Brussels was us. Yes, Brussels is the European Parliament, where they treated us so respectfully, I respectfully say the word ironically that they did not leave our Members there to read the amendments! Completely unprecedented behaviour of the European Parliament! So if you're Brussels - I'm not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u32	Thank you. Mr Jiří Junek is now making a point of fact. Then Mr Martin Novotný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u33	Hello, thank you for your word. I think that the debate that is here shows that we all agree that the European Union directive is wrong, that there are a number of things that do not make sense. I think so, too. For example, I have been bothered by the examples mentioned several times about the replicas of historical weapons, which will also be subject to registration, including some foreheads. The idea is completely absurd that this could endanger security. So I guess we agree on that. But on the other hand, when I talk about the foreheads and the replicas, on the other hand, how this proposed amendment to the Constitution will help to make the very foreheads etc. could they continue to be used in these historic club events? It won't. And that's the other thing that we don't agree on here, and that's that the amendment to the law that we're proposing here doesn't seem to solve anything at all, in many and in my opinion. There's no way they can correct that directive. Nothing's gonna happen. I'd like to respond to some of my previous speakers here. It's just really short. Mr Fiedler said that we actually want to declare something about the European Union with this change. All right, well, let's take a resolution. But declaring something to the EU by changing the constitutional law seems a little pointless to me. To change the Constitution in every declaration, it is not quite the same in my opinion. A fellow MP Vondráček himself said that the directive does not make sense. But that means we want to accept something that doesn't make sense either. And my third reaction to my colleague Holík. [[Attention on time.]] He said we didn't want to huddle in front of the Union, and we have to show our position. And by accepting something meaningless - I don't know.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u34	I'm sorry, two minutes! Thank you. Mr Martin Novotný will be next, then Mr Fiedler. I'm sorry, I turned it on earlier, so you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u35	Good morning. It is a symbolic situation that tells a lot about this Parliament and its members. As much as I can agree with the legal interpretation that is mentioned here, so we, as the country's basic sovereign legislative body, are in a situation where, in the opinion of a number of legislators, a European Union standard enters into the absolutely fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens of this country, for example, in the area of self-defense and the like, so we will be divided into two groups. Those who will constantly repeat that it is a legal nonsensical act, and those who feel that, at least in this situation, even if it is a symbolic solution and it would be questionable whether it leads to legal results, will we show that, at the moment when it violates some fundamental constitutional rights and freedoms of our citizens, we will at least take that symbolic step? So I am definitely on the side of those who want to take that symbolic step at least. And I do not want to be involved in making an alibi to the governments of France and Belgium, who have grown their political districts in their cities, such as Moelenbeck in Brussels, the vast settlement around Paris or Marseilles, where there are many weapons in almost every household, only those governments have lost government, the ability to exercise jurisdiction in their own country, are unable to ensure elementary security and law enforcement in their own country and are taking this formal, totally false and lying step that they want to seduce their alibi for their incompetence and burden the citizens of the entire European Union in their daily lives. When else should the Czech Parliament at least take that symbolic step by expressing its opposition?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u36	Thank you. Next will be Mr Karel Fiedler, then Mr Benešík. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u37	My colleague Benešík correctly asked how our representatives voted in the institutions of the European Commission, the Council of Ministers, MEPs in the European Parliament. So I hope that the public who sits on the gallery as representatives of the citizens who vote will remember that next time our representatives will vote for the European Parliament again, who promise something else before the elections and otherwise vote after the elections, which unfortunately does not concern only the European Parliament, but also this Chamber of Deputies. But what my colleague Benešík said. I quite understand that something from the minority's position, the opposition, is very difficult. I am the opposition, or the opposition, not the opposition, so I have very good experience with this, in quotation marks, that it is very difficult to push something, even sensible, against it when most are arrested. I understand that my colleague Benešík is a folklore. A party that either is not in Parliament, in the House, or is in government, so it doesn't have these experiences of the opposition, and it probably doesn't, because they'll always be here, or they'll always be in government, so they don't understand. I understand that maybe some of our deputies were against it. I don't know. I don't want to alibi someone in advance. But I know very well what it means not to enforce something against the majority as an opposition MP.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u38	Thank you. Next will be Mr Benešík, Mr Gabal will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u39	Mr Vice-President, I will not respond to those awkward views here about the people's people. I'm in Parliament at exactly the same time, I was elected at exactly the same time as all of you here. I'm here for the first term, and the KDU-ČSL wasn't there at all. So that kind of crap about how folks are always there or ond, it just doesn't work for me. I am here as Benešík, like Ondřej Benešík, who did not sit in any House other than this, and I am here with you anyway, and I have not supported any other government, and I have not expressed confidence in it other than the one who is now in control. So all that crap about how people always go there or her, it's kind of folklore. But I'm happy for what my colleague Novotný said. He said it was a symbolic act, and it was finally said here. Yes, it is a symbolic act that I personally support. And what I've been up against here is all this bullshit about how it has to do with, in my opinion, in many ways, an imperfect and bad directive on the possession of weapons that came to us from Brussels, approved by the EU institutions. And as for who voted. I think it can be traced, but it would be good to hear from the rapporteurs here, possibly. from the Minister, who voted in the various EU institutions. And as for the yellow card, we didn't get enough support for it. I in the European Committee, although I am chairman, am the only representative of the KDU-ČSL. And as some of you may know, but apparently some of you don't know, so in these bodies, such as the House, or such as the House Committees, are decided by the majority. I, as one of the nineteen, am unable to pronounce this. If anyone has a problem with this, let them read the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u40	Your time has passed, Mr. Ambassador, for a point of fact. Once again, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I still have four factual points. Now my colleague, Ivan Gabal, will prepare a colleague, Černochová. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u41	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm signing up for a stand-alone gig, but I don't think it's gonna happen. I made detailed arguments on the Security Committee in the debate. I would just like to comment here on the extent to which this constitutional change, if it does not weaken the implementation of the directive, will bring or will not bring change into our constitutional system. Unfortunately, I have to assure my colleagues that it will, and quite essential. The first is, in the constitutions, carrying weapons except the United States has only some Latin- and South American countries, together about 11, European and Western none. So we need to think about where we're going with our Constitution, what society we're going to enter, and there's probably a reason for that. All recommendations of legislative, constitutional, etc. suggest regulation of weapons rather than introduction into the Constitution. Two. By this decision, we will release the privately held weapons into the defense of the country and burden their carriers with joint responsibility for defending the country. That needs to be realized. The directive will be implemented, there will be restrictions, but everyone else including, I don't know, sportsmen, hunters and others will be jointly responsible for defending the country - given from the Constitution. And the last one. No one loses the right to have a weapon to protect their property and their life and use it. But if he uses it to feel like he's defending the country in public somewhere, he'll fall under criminal law. That means we're creating an illusion that a lot of people can bring before criminal law. And I think that this fundamental incoherence of these three things, that we will not weaken the directive first, we will make a hard note of the Constitution because of three percent of people --
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u42	You, too, my colleague, have ended the time to make a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u43	- and last but not least, we'll chase away the privates -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u44	Please respect the Rules of Procedure! Mrs Jana Černochová, my colleague Laudát will be ready. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u45	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would first respond by your means to my colleague Gabal. Yes, that is what it looks like in the European Union. I'll say four cities, I won't say more: Berlin, Paris, Munich, London! About what my colleague Benešík said. And I do not agree that now this government, which is part of the People's Party, can say: we have done our utmost. We didn't! This was not just a resolution of the European Committee. I tried to load it here on the floor of the Chamber of Deputies, the yellow card. So if one Mr. Benešík voted somehow, it has no effect whatsoever. This is where we were supposed to discuss it. Here on the floor of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, the Chamber of Deputies, and here we could give a clear signal! And by the way, Mr Benešík has been a Member since 2013, but in November 2015, he was here and sitting. I am talking about those acts that followed when the European directive came into circulation, and that was in November 2015. Play on the records I was saying at the time, what I asked you to do. And you, members of the government coalition, didn't support it! It was supported by the opposition. About what my colleague Junek said here, through the Vice-President. This is absolutely nonsense, because the resolution of the European Committee and the mild resolution of our Chamber of Deputies has completely ignored the EU at all levels! Perhaps you will find the resolution in some toilets in the European Union, the resolution of our Parliament.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u46	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, Mr František Laudát, my colleague Igor Jakubčík will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u47	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Just for a little while. I would recommend the leadership of the KDU to arrange for Mr Benešík, he is a promising politician of the KDU, and I personally consider him almost the best thing in the club, so he should not spoil his reputation with today's increasingly radical performances. And on that issue that more and more politicians are pointing to the KDU value range, so remember what they're doing here. Now they're the greatest freedom fighters. Who the hell approved these laws in this coalition again? It's like they're not here. I confess that sometimes when I listen to speeches on some major occasions like Monday, and when a KDU member talks about character, I get a little chilly. Either you have those values or you don't have those values. And, you know, don't be mad at me, they don't have some basic value issues and they can't be the subject of business. And unfortunately, you're dealing with values. I'm sorry. Some of you. I'm not saying you all do it. But look at you, what you've been doing here for four years. Here was something from your most important member, if I take it here in the House regarding status, something about coming up with an amendment to the law, when you helped here that the minister may not have a clerk's certificate, whereas that downstairs, just a clerk, must have one. So where are your novels? You say something, and you do something else, so don't get upset because sometimes it reminds you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u48	I thank Mr František Laudát. Now my colleague Igor Jakubčík, Mr Milan Šarapatka, will be prepared. That could be the last point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u49	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, there has been talk about who voted in the European Parliament. Just a little nipple, a little bit of interest. All Czech MEPs voted in favour of rejecting the directive, except MEP Niedermayer, who supported the directive. The next vote was for the adoption of the directive. All Czech MEPs were against the approval of the directive, one - MEP Niedermayer abstained. And in favour of the adoption of the directive, two Czech MEPs voted for the directive - MEP Štětina and unfortunately black sheep ČSSD MEP Keller. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u50	Thank you for the overview of the vote of our colleagues in the European Parliament. Mr Milan Šarapatka and then Minister Pilný with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u51	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am also holding a legal weapon and I am determined to vote in favour of this draft. Of course, if I'm watching and listening to your election dances, I'm gonna have a hard time pressing that button. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u52	I thank Mr Šarapatek. We are continuing the debate. Minister Ivan Pilný will speak with priority. Mr. Chalupa will be ready. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u53	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear coalition MPs, I would urge you very seriously to stop pervading government coalition proposals. Yesterday you were subjected to an irresistible urge to apply to the law on the residence of foreigners and today to this law. Yesterday, a number of laws fell under the table, not only the laws of the Ministry of Finance, but also the order of careers and other things. Today it is 10 o'clock 40 minutes, there is a whole series of laws that are substantially, substantially more important to most citizens of this country, and this House has already had a hell of a lot of time in its term of office. So I would like to call on you to respect what is important to most citizens and not to over-create them. When I look at the list of performers, they're all coalition MPs. Please don't enforce government laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u54	Thank you to Minister Ivan Pilný. It raised two factual points - Mr Michal Kučera and Mr Gabal. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u55	Thank you for the floor. I can, of course, smile at the way the coalition MPs are dealing with each other's accounts. However, in the account of my previous speaker, Mr. Finance Minister Pilný. Minister, you know, this House doesn't just impose coalition laws. Unfortunately, it also surrounds the laws proposed by the opposition. There have been three years of laws that haven't even gotten into the agenda, the opposition. [[Highly:]] And, Mr Pilný, it is your fault, your coalition, your movement, the ČSSD and the People's Party, that we have not been able - not to approve them, but we have not been able to discuss them. It's your shame and your shame!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u56	Thank you. We have other factual points - Mr Gabal, Mr Blažek and Mr Benda. Mr Gabal, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u57	Thank you. I just wanted to say that in response to Mr. Finance Minister's speech, I checked out of the show. Thank you, he's right.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u58	Thank you. Now, Mr Pavel Blažek. A colleague of Benda will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u59	In response to the Minister of Finance, I would object a little to something I call such political economicism. These are sentences such that the most important law of the year is the Act on the State Budget, that today the laws on the jurisdiction of the institutions, the administration of taxes, etc. are who knows how important. And we're talking about an amendment to the Constitution, which means the basic document of this state, according to which all the authorities work. So that the debate about the Constitution is long - we cannot say that this is some debate that is useless, and those common laws are more important. It's really political economicism. And I'll tell you, I hate to say it right now, but one example. Whenever I hear of state budget and economic laws - please, Nuremberg laws have influenced the history of this world far more than the state budget and any economic laws of the German Empire of 1933. Constitution, it's something like that. And really don't upset me by talking about the Constitution for a long time. Well, of course he does. On the contrary, I would say that when I see tax administration, I don't really know if the world is gonna go down if it's not today. Of course they won't.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u60	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr. Benda now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u61	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I was also provoked by the Minister of Finance. The longer I've been in the House, the more I trust an old British proverb No man can be sure of his life, property, or freedom as long as Parliament is in session. Now I've looked into the draft program, we have 21 bills at second reading, 51 at third reading. Name me, Minister, at least one of them who has some positive impact on the citizens, and where something happens if he is not accepted. I didn't find one.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u62	Thank you. We will therefore continue with the debate by speaking to Mr Chalupa, and Mr Karel Rais will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u63	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, at first there was a appeal to the Constitution and other things, so I will read you what Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk said: If someone attacks me to kill me, I will defend myself, and if there is no other help, I will kill the rapist. If one of us is about to be killed, let him be killed by one of us who has bad intentions. That describes quite a lot, and it is a certain tradition that we should turn to. Then I'll read you Article 3 of the NATO Alliance Treaty. He says: In order to achieve the objectives of this Treaty as effectively as possible, the Contracting Parties will individually and jointly be a constant and effective self-help - the word self-help is important - and by mutual assistance to maintain and develop their individual - once again stressing the word individual - and the collective ability to resist an armed attack. And the question that has not yet been answered is whether the European Union directive is contrary to this Article 3 of the NATO Alliance Treaty, where there are 27 alliance states in Europe. So that's just how we're supposed to take care of our own and collective defenses. Now, about what today's meeting is about. So, despite the initial embarrassment at the time of the amendment, I wasn't sure I'd support the amendment. At this point, I am sure that I will support it, and I call on all Members of this House to do so. I have worked hard enough to get acquainted with the opinions of both pro and cons, to get acquainted with the opinions of the community of arms holders of the Czech Republic, and I am not under any pressure if they support me, will they not support me. I'm not gonna act the way we did when we were under pressure at State Reconstruction. I have come to this because the arguments in favour of adopting the amendment are so serious and strong that I do not have the slightest problem with my conscience. This is where we talk about whether it's a symbol or not. Yes, it's a symbol. It is a symbol of the message to the European Union that this is the Czech Republic, that we have a certain sovereignty. The same signals or symbols will be next. Symbolism is also in the non-acceptance of quotas. The symbolism is also in the refusal of the Security Committee to discuss the anti-discrimination directive of the European Union. Symbolism is in the recognition of Jerusalem as the capital of Israel. Symbolism is also in recognition of the genocide of the Armenian people by the Ottoman Empire. And I think there's gonna be other symbols. And the sooner the European Union and gentlemen in the European Parliament and the European Commission realize that they will definitely not unite the European Union in this way, the better for all of us. It was said here that our gun bill was the best in the world. I will just add what I have said about the European Union. It is amazing that the European Union has not taken this into account in a very programming way. And not only did she not take into account, but she totally ignored it because it shows that the European Parliament's staff is completely incompetent in terms of security and defence issues. And we see it not only in this, but we see it in the protection of the Schengen area, the way Frontex is dealt with, and other things. So if someone from the European Union wants to lecture us, they should clean up their own doorstep first and get real experts on things that concern the safety of European citizens. It is true what has been said here that out of the total number of 600 million people in the European Union, it seems that 590 million people do not care. But this is just a semblance, because, as far as NATO's command and national politicians are concerned, there has been an ever-increasing awareness of the situation where, since 1989, the solution to the issue we have called civil defence has ended in the whole of the European Union. Throughout the European Union, no one is preparing the population for crisis situations, defence education and more and more. And we're talking about trying to defend ourselves against a potential enemy? With the armies that are being shot down in terms of budgets? Deficit only in our army, as we found out at the last conference, is almost 390 billion crowns. Twenty-five years later, we came to the conclusion here. [[10.50 hours]] So I don't see it as symbolism. I see this - the adoption of this amendment is a signal especially for our public, for our citizens, that this House is a sovereign of the Czech state, and it is a signal for what we have also talked about several times here, and that is patriotism. In what other way do you want to encourage, start a debate, initiate some of these forms of unification of the nation on some basic principles? So that's why I think we should vote for the novel. As far as the law is concerned, what some colleagues have said here. Yes, I recognize the right that people can have their hands in their pockets. They can assume that there will be two policemen circling each of us in case of danger, that's what they're entitled to. But the same right is granted to those citizens who want to have the gun, they're cleared. They are screened far more than other groups or other communities. I don't see any problem with that at all. And I certainly have nothing against it - and that is what I want to commend - that the government has finally agreed to assign the Ministry of Defence a task to prepare a substantive draft law on defence associations. I shall call it the Union of Defense, as Mr Edvard Beneš, by his decree, appointed in 1947, not before the war, but after the war, because it was based on historical experience during the Second World War. So these guys, if they want to get involved in the conn, because they're gunholders, super cool, we'd be happy to welcome them, we'd be looking for ways to get them involved. As far as other activities are concerned, it was said here. It's not self-saving. Of course it's not self-saving. But again, this House is being somewhat hypocritical, because for three years in this House, I'm talking about introducing gate education to schools as a mandatory subject, and only now, two months before the elections, suddenly it's a theme for all political parties who suddenly found out that they want it too. I've been talking for three years about setting up or restoring the Union of Defense, again for three years nothing, and now we're making such an effort just for this novel. I'm talking about the Integrated Training Centre in Vyškov, which should contribute to increasing the capabilities and training of security and defence forces. And it's not self-saving. And I strongly agree with my colleague Gabal by your means that we must make equal or even greater efforts to ensure that the Police of the Czech Republic, the Army, Customs Administration and others are better equipped, better trained, better prepared to carry out their tasks within the framework of the security of citizens of the Czech Republic. So I call you all once again to accept this amendment of the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u64	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. I've been served with a note. And since I have received a note from Minister Ivan Pilný from 12.30 pm, I am asking the president of coalition MPs to secure one of the ministers, or I will have to interrupt the meeting in order to comply with the Rules of Procedure. So I'm stating an apology to the Minister of Finance from 12:30 p.m. He also apologizes from 16.15 a.m. to Mrs Marie Benešová and between 12.30 and 19.00 a.m. Mr Josef Hájek. Before I give the floor to Mr Rais, I will wait until one of the ministers attends the meeting to comply with the Rules of Procedure. Since I don't have the chairman of the club of the ANO movement or KDU-ČSL, my colleague Sklenák has probably gone looking for someone... [[A voice from the diaper.]] No, former ministers aren't enough for me. It may be enough for me, but the Rules of Procedure will not comply. [[Applause from Members of the KSČM.]] Yes, so we have one of the Vice-Presidents of the government here. Please, we can continue with Mr Karel Rais's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. A colleague of Soukup will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u65	Good day, honourable Members, honourable Members, Minister. I'll respect the pressure to reduce time. I might get into a technical note, but just in case, I'll take it as a normal contribution. A part of our Chamber of Deputies recently refused to anchor the traditional European cultural values and traditions of humanism based on ancient and Jewish-Christian spiritual legacy. For example, let us remember not adopting an amendment to the amendment to the School Act. Now part of the Chamber of Deputies, perhaps the same Members, reject an important amendment to the Constitutional Security Act, which is a response to the EU's arms directive. Is that a coincidence? I believe that not only the philosophy of life, the values of life, but also our own society in which we live, we must protect ourselves. History has taught us many times that taking on views coming from the West or the East has often brought problems sometimes to a catastrophic extent. And what do we see today? What do we want? First of all, let us get rid of our moral principles, which are based on European and old Czech traditions, while we are armed, and we also want to comply with the EU agreements that we have signed, in particular the agreement on the free movement of persons of often unknown origin, which are, by their nature, oriented against civilised humanity. Allow me a personal response to this matter. The rejection of the basic philosophical principles on which our society grew up and was built, with the current pseudo-voluntary armed part of society, is a journey to hell. I therefore consider it my duty to express, positively, the amendment to the Constitutional Law on Security. In the last three years, and this is one of the reasons why I have been here, it is also because, over the last three years, few have raised a bill in the South Moravian region, which I am a Member so great, and I stress, almost clearly a positive response, such as this draft amendment to the Constitutional Security Act. At the same time, the same people reject the EU's disarmament directive. There's been a lot going on here, the data, so I'd leave it on the side. So we are more or less elected representatives of people in the regions and we simply have to respect, we should respect, and if this is in line with our internal conviction, then, of course, I have no problem with that. So I recommend the adoption of a novel. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u66	I thank Mr Karel Rais. Mr Benešík's factual comment is now in effect and a colleague Zdeněk Soukup is still prepared. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u67	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know there's been a few historical excursions here, but in any case, there's been a lot of talk about my party and me personally. I just want one little reminder, maybe some of you don't know. Today, political parties are setting up a think tank, their institutions to help them shape their program. At the time of the first Republic in 1919 KDU was established, respectively ČSL as the Czechoslovak People's Party. The Eagle body institution was also established later. And she was just about to prepare young people to be able to fight, to be able to physically defend their country. After Hitler came to power, the activity of physical unity of the Eagle belonging to the wings of the Czechoslovak People's Party was intensified, so that young people could defend their homeland. As it turned out, we all know. However, we also recently commemorated the anniversary of the Heydrich assassination. Two of these paratroopers, from these heroes of our homeland, were the descendants of the Eagle, the organization of the Czechoslovak People's Party. So I'd just like to remind you, when someone here says that we cross and pour holy water before the election, that my party, which I belong to, and which I've been with for quite a long time, has done this to defend my country! Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u68	A colleague of Soukup will wait, because Mr Martin Novotný has applied, also on a factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u69	I only wanted to ask him such a hypothetical question following what Mr Benešík said, what would the defenders of the homeland of the Eagle, whom we all appreciate today if he told them they could not defend themselves because it is against the European directive.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u70	I thank Mr Novotný and Mr Zdeněk Soukup, who is now duly registered, Mr Zlatuška will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u71	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, my personal attitude towards weapons is very negative. What's more, I'm, I'd say, a lifelong pacifist. However, I support the proposal to establish a constitutional right to use a weapon to defend itself and to defend the state. What makes me say that? An absolutely extraordinary and still escalating security situation across Europe. I think it is absolutely crucial to ask a fundamental question: is the state currently able to guarantee security for its citizens? More than unsatisfactory answers give us scary events like the terrorist attacks in Charlie Hebdo, Beslan, Brussels, London, Paris, it's almost everyday business. What does the state or states advise us to do? We have to get used to it, they say. In fact, the daily threat to my and my children's lives is a bad habit. From countries where they have cars to the crowd and knife attacks almost daily, it also often sounds: we will not be intimidated, we will not let them take a way of life, with bare hands. A bit of a clueless declaration worthy of a flock of sheep. In fact, the fact that the state cannot protect its citizens in the current nature of Islamist attacks is an objective fact. He'd have to assign one cop to each of us. And our army, it's more like an expeditionary corps. Bottom line: if the state can't and can't actually protect its citizens, it has to give them a chance to protect themselves. Fair enough. Under the rules, of course. I would like to comment on the possibility of creating various defensive associations. The army, we have to admit that unsuccessfully, it is often noted, working with active backups. In addition, various militias are spontaneously created. It's a myth that they're a party of tattooed holoheads with baseball bats and extremist views. I don't think it's always true. I've spoken to some of these people. They're mostly former soldiers who worked on foreign missions. There's a doctor in charge of their association. That says it all. These people can handle weapons very well, they are trained in stressful situations. They should be spoken to, in my opinion. Let's try not to think of them as a militia, but to see them as an initiative from below. If the word militia doesn't smell good to us, I have a proposition. A State-coordinated initiative of this type can become a national guard. It has its place in the defence concept of many countries to which we look with admiration and respect. I think that, in order to ensure security, we will have to take a number of further legislative measures. In this context, I would like to remind my amendment to the law on churches and religious societies. A novelty to take control of the state of the preacher of non-traditional churches from abroad. She's been in the system for a year, and I haven't been able to get her on the program to this day. With my proposals for taking preventive measures against wild migration and Islamisation, I sometimes come up with an argument: it does not concern us yet. So far, the refugee crisis and the interest of radical Islamists have passed us by. I would like to say one thing about this: when it comes to us, it will be too late. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u72	I thank Mr Zdeněk Soukupa. Now, Mr. Jiří Zlatuška, Mr. Ludvík Hovorka will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u73	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this constitutional law on the security of the Czech Republic, or this amendment, which is being tabled, I have a bit of a problem with the part of the tone that is being heard here in the debate. As a central point of anchoring the security of the Czech Republic, I see our part as the European Union and that this law is explicitly considered to be a definition against the European Union, I personally consider it a greater threat to the security of the Czech Republic in the future than anything that is argued in relation to arms. On the other hand, I see positive points in this proposal. The one is that, at the moment when the weapons are subject to explicit tasks in ensuring the security of the Czech Republic in paragraph 2 of the relevant article and that a number of Communist Members have also signed the proposal for this amendment, I see a clear message towards another element of our security, namely NATO. Security assurance, as it is in custody of the military, and this is how it is stipulated in the law that we are now amending, has its bearing on the subordinates of our armed forces and cooperating persons, in this case, the leadership of NATO. So all those who are going to the point that by acquiring a weapon that will be used by defence citizens, they actually implicitly say that they are ready to do this here within the framework of these other commitments, and I consider this in itself quite a valuable thing. Another positive step that I see in this and which, oddly enough, has not been mentioned here, I see for the state budget. Given that, if the law is adopted in this text, there will be a large number of weapons that will be designed to ensure security under this law. It will actually be a private investment of citizens in the equipment of the armed forces, or forces that cooperate with the armed forces, and in reporting our 2% obligation to GDP, given the commitment to financing our defenses in the North Atlantic Defence Alliance, we could therefore have one column of public investment, and the other column of private investment, and the sum of these two things here maybe for some time we would be in black numbers in terms of the commitment of two percent of GDP. However, I see in this law, in this proposal, a whole series of problematic points and constitutional character which, in my opinion, have not been mentioned at all. The Civil Service Act 234 defines the State's defence as a service in Section 5 as the definition of the Civil Service Act. At the moment when we subject the possession of arms under this amendment to the Czech Security Act to the performance of the tasks associated with this service, at least this will create a double group of citizens with different rights. People who work in employment or in service under the Civil Service Act are subject to a number of restrictions, including restrictions on the exercise of their mandate in the bodies to which they are elected by the elections. They must choose whether to be members of regional councils or Members, or whether to work in this service relationship with regard to the State. This creates a legally defined group of citizens who claim to carry out the same kind of tasks that are otherwise provided by citizens in that service under the Civil Service Act. It would therefore also be appropriate to consider how the general rights of those citizens who enter the service obligation will be further restricted, for example, by restricting the exercise of their mandate, for example, in the Chamber of Deputies, by acquiring the weapon they hold from this title, so as not to be in a different legal position vis-à-vis those in that service. [[11.10 hours]] The other thing is that the law actually introduces the categorization of weapons. If you read the explanatory statement or listen to the arguments that were made here in the debate, it is possible to notice both from the explanatory report of the basic division between the weapons that I would characterize the hunter, the weapons for the exercise of hunting and similar activities, and then the weapons that are aimed at shooting at people. [[Strong noise in the whole hall.]] With those weapons towards the people, they are weapons that citizens can acquire -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u74	I will interrupt you, Mr. Ambassador, and ask the House for peace. I think if someone is discussing a subject other than the amendment to the Constitutional Security Act, it's in the foyer. And let Mr. Zlatuška finish his speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u75	There are weapons that people buy either to use the weapon that's functionally capable of shooting at people, just because they like shooting at target range. But if there is a threat to the security of the state, they will not be willing to lend this weapon to those services and will say: I can shoot, but I demand that I be assigned an erary gun because I will not wear out my own gun. And then there will be the others who get it for the purpose that is said in this novel. Therefore, to participate in defence-related tasks, to ensure the security of the State pursuant to this paragraph. 2. This categorization into two groups is, in my opinion, necessary. This automatically results from the text of the amendment and from the fact that if a person acquires a weapon, it is his physical property and has the right to decide whether he will subject him to the obligations mentioned in this amendment and in the explanatory memorandum, or whether he wants to have it for any other reason. The draft constitutional law does not address how these two groups will differ, nor does it address the nature of the commitment taken upon by the person who acquires the weapon to carry out the tasks of ensuring the security of the state. This probably falls under what the petitioner said was a framework that would have to be worked out further. But I would point out that this law, from the point of view of arms holders, is a law that potentially limits their general rights, just as it limits them to military service soldiers. Their involvement in military service limits their general right to life. A soldier doesn't have the chance to defend himself from following orders by arguing that his life could be threatened. However, if a person signs up to be subject to security tasks by acquiring the weapon, and these tasks are subject to cooperation with the military in the State Security Act, then he is likely to also sign up to the prospect of giving up the exercise of these general rights. That's okay, but it should somehow be enforceable. This situation should not look like it is under the general framework of this constitutional law to acquire a weapon to carry out tasks. To quote the explanatory note, "it is to establish the right in the Security Act by subjecting it to the obligation of a citizen to participate"? So the right arises to me only if I submit to my duty to do those tasks. But when such a task comes, it follows from the general legal framework that a person could not give up his future claims on a flat-rate basis, such as life-protection rights. This, in turn, raises the question of how to resolve this contradiction and how to ensure the enforcement of what is said in the explanatory report as a subordinate to the citizen's duty to participate in defence. This doesn't solve the proposal, it's probably gonna have to be dealt with by some other law that's gonna follow up on it. But I would point out that this does not mean for citizens the acquisition of a new law they did not have - it was said x-times that the possibility of acquiring weapons under Czech legislation in the context of obtaining an arms license is good, that nothing changes about it. So this isn't going to change for these people, but their fundamental rights that they enjoy as citizens will potentially change, but which they can lose under the obligation of cooperation in ensuring security, and they can be lost as well as the soldiers in active duty. I repeat, a soldier has no way of saying that he will not perform any task because his life could be threatened. The same must obviously apply to citizens who fall under the definition of subordinates to the duty of a citizen to participate in security, as the explanatory report says, and how this is likely to result from the diction of the amendment to the Security Act, unless the explanatory memorandum is merely a talk that is not bound to do so. In the debate that took place here, several times... So another thing that is not addressed there is the question of material compensation for the use of these weapons. In the constitutional law, it is generally assumed that a citizen will be subject to the obligation of cooperation to secure defence with his own weapons, possibly with his own ammunition. Even if the ammunition does not result from this, so for the state it probably means an obligation to provide ammunition supplies for all possible weapons that citizens have. If he orders them to do the job, the citizen says, "I have a gun, but I don't have the appropriate ammunition," and he'll expect to be able to supply him with the gun that this citizen has to carry out the tasks. Another thing that doesn't result from this is ensuring compensation for wearing those weapons in case of actual deployment. We have to assume that if citizens co-operate in this way to ensure security by their own weapons, by their own investment, their use in order to ensure the security of the state is created by amortization of this investment. And from the general legal standards, there is compensation for compensation for this material... i.e. financial damage. This, in turn, does not solve this law. He's probably gonna have to follow up on some other law that's gonna regulate this. So are those citizens on constant alert. From the diction of the law it follows that at the moment when by just holding a gun, I agree to submit to those duties, I probably have a 24-hour service seven days a week, 24-hours a day to be prepared, that the instruction may come, I will take my own gun and go do the tasks. The result of this, in turn, can be the provision of provision and other material costs, which I do not think the proposal solves. The reasoned report faces these financial claims, which result from this, with great disdain. [[11.20 hours]] In the debate that was here, there were references to the way in which the directive was prepared. I join those critical votes at the address of the representative of the Czech Government in the Council of Ministers, in this case apparently the Minister of the Interior, who is known to participate in these councils to be about 40 percent. [[Big noise in the hall.]] His lack of linguistic knowledge clearly did not have it to allow the views that led to the drafting of the directive before it was discussed in those subsequent stages, when it was much more complex - I would not take criticism of the European Parliament by far this strongly - so by neglecting this point here and the incompetence of the Czech Interior Minister in these negotiations, it seems that the next thing that we are now formally trying to replace by adopting the law, which some here even referred to as a possible basis for any judicial proceedings in the enforcement of the directive. I believe that we are implementing our sovereignty in a way that will at least seem ridiculous. [[The noise in the hall lasts.]] In the same way, I would have expressed my doubts about the fact that in connection with this law, such things as some historical clubs or even museum cases should have been mentioned. If anyone thinks that the weapons they carry with them for imitation of historical battles are people who perform these battles, or the weapons in the case cases, in museums in some way contribute to the merit that is being dealt with by this law - this does not concern the general reservations to the directive, but this law says that they are the weapons that citizens acquire to their subordinates to their security tasks - then if anyone thinks that these weapons here will somehow increase security, it is a very regrettable thing. And at the moment I hear it from the members of this legislature who take photographs in their spare time on a swimmer with automatic weapons, it seems to me like a paradox that is remarkable and mentionable. And the last thing I dare to do about the proposal, virtually. to the debate that was here, to speak as a stand of its own. I strongly doubt that the standards that today correspond to the control of the mental health of individuals who are exhibition with weapons are such that they do not have problems in the Czech Republic. Personally, I would also accompany this constitutional law by the constitutional law on the right to free psychiatric care for anyone who will be photographed at home in a kitchen with a winchester through his chest or on a swimmer with an automatic gun in his hand. This is what I think is a serious lack of the law, and it should also be addressed in a perspective.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u76	I thank Mr Jiří Zlatušek. I have two factual points here. First, Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, then Mrs Jana Černochová. Mr. Chairman of the Mihola Club will still be in front of my colleague Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, how to respond to your previous speaker. Perhaps - the word, the pearl. But you basically expressed it yourself with the level of noise and inattentiveness you gave this foreman. I wanted to evaluate it in another way, perhaps even about who should be subject to psychiatric examination - not just the one who exhibates in the kitchen, or possibly. on a swimmer, but maybe even the one who exhibates at this speaking desk. [[There's laughter.]] I would like to say to you, colleagues from the ANO movement who understand security and understand the Army of the Czech Republic - I sincerely regret you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u78	Thank you. Now, Mrs Jana Černochová and Mr Zlatuška's factual comment. Please, madam, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u79	Thank you. I think a lot of this has been said by my colleague Ondráček. Thank him for that. I have spoken here several times about recommending that, as one criterion for joining the Chamber of Deputies, we should undergo a psychiatric examination and prove ourselves to be psychotic. And I think we all have one certainty - we wouldn't see each other here with Mr. Zlatuška.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u80	Thank you. Mr Zlatuška, with a factual remark, will be prepared with priority rights by the President of KDU-ČSL Mihola. You have the floor, Mr. Ambassador, on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u81	I'm not going to comment on the emotional alignment of the ODS with the KSČM. But I really appreciate Mr Ondráček for being urged on Facebook to beat me in the bathroom, so he said he wouldn't do it and he would deal with me here at the speaker's counter, which he does.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u82	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Now, President Mihola, a colleague of Ludvík Hovorka will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u83	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the KDU-ČSL will have a free vote in the vote of the amendment to the Constitutional Security Act. [[Laughter, applause and a busy room. The President urges peace.]] I don't know what... I think it's a normal thing. After careful consideration of all the circumstances, I have decided to vote for myself against this bill, and I firmly believe that this will also be the vote of the overwhelming majority of our club, if not all of them. The following reasons lead me to do so. I consider that proposal to be quite unconventional. In fact, while they face the outside as the right of citizens to hold a gun, they anchor a new obligation for all citizens, when they are legal arms holders, to participate in the defence of the state. Citizens already have the right to acquire a weapon legally. Although it is a law at a level in the quotation marks of a mere law, it is one of the best weapons legislation in Europe. Therefore, I do not see any reason to transfer this issue to the Constitution. The proposal goes completely against the fundamental meaning of the democratic state. The main task of the state is to ensure the security of its citizens and, at the same time, it is the state that holds the monopoly for this purpose on legitimate use of weapons against public order invaders. If someone proposes that this obligation be passed on to the citizens themselves, it actually says that the state has failed in carrying out its main task. I don't think we're in this state. And because I would not like to get into that state, I will continue to approve by my vote only those laws which will lead to the maintenance of the high standard of security that the Czech Republic currently has. Ladies and gentlemen, voting against the draft constitutional law does not mean that I am against citizens legally acquiring and holding arms if they fulfil all the legal conditions for this. However, I am opposed to the Constitution's purposefully bending and adopting provisions that will not be of any use, but, on the contrary, could significantly undermine the fundamental constitutional pillars of our democratic state. I want to live in a state I can count on to ensure my safety and yours. And in my work, I will do everything I can to keep this wish a reality. [[11.30 hours]] Finally, I would like to add that this is not just some opinion, some assumption, a thought. We have devoted our time to this proposal in many discussions, at many seminars. We also communicated with experts on this issue. One of those platforms was a scientific seminar on the Constitution in April of this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u84	I thank Mr Mihol. Before I give the floor to Mr Stanjur, I will read an apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, when Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes from 12 o'clock. Mr Stanjura's point of order now. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u85	I respect President Mihola's right to decide on this issue. I would just ask that Prime Minister Mihola not scare the citizens. The results and conclusions of his performance - I don't think there's anything like that, there's no such thing. He almost told us that if we approved this amendment, the security forces in our state would stop working and the defenses would only have to be secured individually by our citizens. Nothing like that is true. I don't mind the logical error that was in President Mihola's speech. He says, and they all agree that we have one of the best - if not the best - laws in Europe in terms of possession of weapons. We agree on that. But what about the directive that the European People's Party has passed - among other things? It will, if we submit and implement - and I oppose and we have said in the long run that even if we had to pay for it, we will not implement it - this best law or will not maintain it? I would ask President Mihola for a clear answer - yes or no? If we have one of the best laws in Europe and at the same time you and your allies in Brussels are pursuing this directive or you have pushed it, the question is: will we have to change the law if we implement it or not? And if so, as I am convinced that the answer is yes, will we have to, will we still have the best law on the possession of weapons? I'll answer you, too. In our opinion, we won't! We can't say we have the best at the same time, but let's do everything we can to lose the good law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u86	Thank you for keeping time. Now Mr Kalousek's factual remark and then Mr Ludvík Hovorka, duly signed up for the debate. Please, Mr President, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u87	It's just a point of fact. If we are here to blame our allies in the European Parliament, as has already been rightly said, the European Council has decided on this directive and only the ministers Chovanec and Kaliňák have opposed it, all the interior ministers, including the Minister of the Interior of Theresa Mayová, voted in favour, which, as far as I know, is once again an ODS ally in the European Parliament. He doesn't have to blame himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u88	Thank you. One more point in fact, Mrs Černochová. My colleague Stanjura, too, once more. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u89	Only in response to my colleague, Chairman of the TOP 09 Kalousek. Yes, it's very likely. On the other hand, Britain is in a completely different situation than the Czech Republic. If my colleague Kalousek wanted to have a garden party and grill some meat and have some salad, he would go to Macro to buy plastic cutlery for this event. And my colleague Kalousek, in Macro, UK, would like to legitimize for buying plastic cutlery. So, of course, Mrs Mayová has been under the influence of what has already happened in Britain over the years of the previous governments, and unfortunately, the UK is one of the countries where police officers, as we have all noticed, do not walk the streets armed, which, forgive me, otherwise I respect the Brit very much, but in the current security situation I do not think this is correct.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u90	Another point in fact, Mr Lank. And then a duly registered Mr. Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u91	I would only like to clarify one thing here, because there are quite often arguments that we might want to introduce a new obligation. I'll read you what's in the law, and it's already there! State authorities, local authorities and legal and natural persons are obliged to participate in the security of the Czech Republic. The scope of the obligation and other details are laid down in the law. The duty is already there! It is only now added that the citizens of the Czech Republic have the right to acquire, hold and carry weapons and ammunition to carry out the tasks set out in paragraph 1. 2. That's the one I quoted earlier. This right can then be limited by law and other conditions of its enforcement and so on can be laid down by law. So the duty is already there. It's just made it clear that we have the right to this exercise and to exercise that obligation to be armed as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u92	Thank you, Mr Lank. Mr Ludvík Hovorka is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u93	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members of the Government, honourable Members, the Constitution is a fundamental law of the country, and I believe and believe that we are not to change this law intentionally because of one bad directive of the European Union. In this context, I would like to thank the Parliamentary Institute, and I would like to thank Mr Gabal and Mr Farský for the words that have been made clear here that the law will, in principle, not change anything about this directive. The directive is binding after approval and will be implemented as such, and the implementation itself is not a mechanical transfer of 1:1. Everyone here knows that. This directive is not good, but the law that has been put forward, the amendment to the Constitution, merely creates unfulfilled expectations for arms holders, whether historical, sporting or hunting. I believe that the Constitution is being used for the election campaign in this case for no substantial reason. It is an undisputed fact that, with the increase in the number of weapons among humans, there is also an increasing risk of their possible misuse. For all the above reasons, I cannot support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u94	The Minister of Interior Milan Chovanec is now claiming priority rights and then the President of the TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek with priority rights. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u95	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thought that I would no longer speak on this subject today because, first and second reading, there was much information. I thought I managed to disprove some myths and delusions, but apparently I didn't. For example, when I address my colleague Zlatuška through you, I have heard his remarks, it is clear that I will have to continue to reverse my delusions for a while. We are a pro-European government, I think most of this House is pro-European. I am very sorry that we are in a confrontation with Europe because of the mandatory quotas, but it should simply be told the truth. And if we are alone or we are few, then we should stand up for common sense. And if quotas don't work in the European Union today, they won't work and could never work, we won't play a populist game of taking ten more migrants who will immediately leave for the Federal Republic of Germany, and we and the Federal Republic of Germany will play an undignified ping-pong for these people. And undignified to the ten people we'd accept. We witnessed this when we voluntarily accepted Iraqi Christians, and today the problem is not solved, my friends. It's not solved after eight months. At a time when we were dealing with migration and migration waves and there were ideas to open the corridor, like the Rakušan and others did, we clearly said that the problem was going to be an ex-post. If 40, 50, 100,000 people passed through our country, in two, three, four years, the Federal Republic could just give them back to us. And we wouldn't have a chance to do anything about it anymore. We have only strictly stuck to European law. [[11.40 hours]] Today, the European Commission says that Lithuania is excellent, that it has accepted more than half of the number of migrants needed. But please nicely, let us honestly tell our citizens the "B," 70 percent of the people who came to Lithuania are no longer there. 70 percent of the people who came to Lithuania are no longer there and somewhere around Europe. Is the aim of helping affected countries to create a system that will not work? Is he gonna be an eyeball? So that someone in the European Commission can pat on the shoulders that it works? That is not the point of Europe. Europe's purpose is common defence, Europe's purpose is to travel safely across the continent. I think the point of Europe is to use it, even that we are diverse, and to use it for the power of Europe, and not to be punished for it. As far as the Arms Directive is concerned, from the very beginning, we have strongly opposed our reservations from the very beginning of the preparation of the directive. I was also checking to see if anything would change Parliament's actions, some kind of yellow card. She wouldn't change a thing. And from a time point of view, as I asked the House's leadership, it wasn't even feasible. This means that even if the Chamber of Deputies had agreed, and any of the Members could have suggested it, it didn't change anything. The Czech Republic - and please, if you want to reprimand me, reprimand me, it is in perfect order, but please nicely, and please do not disregard the work of specialists of the Ministry of the Interior who submitted tens and tens and dozens and dozens of proposals when we clearly demonstrated the position of the Czech Republic. It is also not true that only Chovanec and Kaliňák voted against the directive at the end. The Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary voted against the directive, if I remember correctly, and Luxembourg. Luxembourg, unfortunately, again because it was not strict enough. The other countries voted against. [[correct for]] The Slovák did not vote back then because they were presiding. On the other hand, Slovakia has helped us at least with the cosmetic modifications of the directive within the Presidency country. For example, we managed to throw a ban off the directive so that, for example, agricultural school students could have a gun license, because agricultural school students, where hunting is, would simply not have access to a gun. Now they have it with their parents' consent, but they do. That's what the directive said. Please nicely, are we really going to fight terrorists by taking the kids' guns for hunting? [[Noise in the left side of the hall.]] You know, the whole directive is absurd in one thing. It is absurd that the explanatory memorandum to this directive states that it is to serve in the fight against terrorism. Please show me a pretty single terrorist act in Europe that was committed with a legally held weapon. He, my friends, doesn't exist. It's not. The explanatory note, the basis of the directive is already flawed. For this reason, the directive needs to be rejected and the implementation needs to be considered very seriously. [[The noise is getting stronger in the whole room. The speaker gradually raises his voice to be heard.]] Today's amendment to the constitutional law is a signal from the Czech Republic that we appreciate the holders of weapons that use these weapons in accordance with the law that we do not want to disarm our own people at a time when security is deteriorating in Europe. And, folks, here's the information about the state's monopoly on security. That's right. But the democratic state is not afraid of its citizens, and it is not afraid to put a gun in their hands. It's always afraid to become totalitarian. This democratic state is not afraid of its citizens, and for this reason we are presenting this draft amendment to the law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u96	Thank you, Minister. Now with priority right President TOP 09 Miroslav Kalousek, so far the last one entered into the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u97	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to repeat a number of arguments that have been made at first and second reading and, after all, in this debate. [[The O.R.'s down completely.]] I'd just like to start where the Home Secretary ended up when he said it was important to tell the truth. So if we really want to speak the truth, let us say that the willingness of the democratic state to entrust the gun to its citizens is not going to change the amendment to the Constitution that we have on our table right now. The willingness is here. We have a legitimist. I myself am the legal holder of three weapons. If I wanted to buy a fourth tomorrow, I'd go buy a fourth without this Constitution being here. So the willingness is here, and nothing's gonna change about it. I, Minister, honestly feel most sorry for the thousands of fair, honest people who do not like the directive. They don't like it as much as I do. TOP 09 was against this directive, it does not support it. And I am sorry that you have convinced them that this constitutional amendment can change anything to implement the European directive into our legal order. Whether we defend ourselves or not, this constitutional amendment will not change anything. And you were able to convince these people that you did. And you did it because you failed to negotiate at the job. When you said not to disrespect the work of the experts of the Ministry of the Interior who put forward the relevant arguments, of course, their work cannot be disrespected. But when I was the finance minister or any of us in the government, and we wanted to prevent something, we couldn't just send experts. So we had to go there alone. And knowing that it wasn't Brusel and some officials who were deciding, but that the Council of Ministers was actually deciding, we just had to negotiate between the various ministers and try to find a blocking minority and negotiate that blocking minority, even at the cost of meeting my partner in something else, when I care so much about priority. The governments in which I had the privilege of taking part, they just did this all the time. I believe, Minister, that you have done no such thing, and then simply disagree with the Council and refer to the arguments of experts, it is too late. That's already been decided. You failed in your work. And to cover it up, you've submitted this amendment and you're explaining to people that this amendment will prevent the implementation of the directive. And that's the basic lie. You did it perfectly. I remember a few laws when each of us, who expressed doubts about the need for this amendment, was subjected to such pressure, now I don't mean something negative, but that interest from the shooting public, in order to rethink this position, to support it, to help them. But when I asked what they helped with, it was never in the sense that they felt the necessary need for their constitutional right to carry a gun. It's always been their firm belief that if we accept the amendment, we're going to turn away the risk of implementing the directive. And that's just not true. I have an understanding, I am trying to find an understanding for some Members, who I know have largely succumbed to the pressure and that they have said, rather than explain to those people, that they are wrong, that this constitutional amendment will not help them at all, so I will grant them, so I will vote in favour, even if it is completely useless. As much as I'm trying to understand them, I want to tell them that they're going to be involved in the lie that the public believes is being deceived by. I just can't do that. This amendment to the Constitution will not change anything at all in the process of implementing the European Arms Directive. And I don't want to be one of those guys who's gonna be publicly lying, that's right, and pretending like I found that tool to fight it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u98	I thank Mr Miroslav Kalousek. With the de facto remark of Mr Chalupa and with priority rights, Mr Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u99	Thank you for the floor. Here to my colleague Kalousek through you. His speech lacked the word "i." Because I said so here. This is, of course, not a complete solution. And I've said here what other measures need to be taken, and I'm glad that Mr Kalousek, through you, is somehow suggesting that here. While I am quite known as a person who is interested in the defence and security, and my colleague Kalousek, through you, told me that I am a green brain and a lamppost, so his relationship to defending the country is a little interesting in this regard. The importance of approving this amendment may not be that we influence implementation, but it has high ethical and moral credit for this country, because Members of this country will take care of it or try to give citizens a signal that we care and that we simply want to make it happen. Plus, I was listening to a TV this morning, where a constitutional lawyer was performing, and he clearly said that it probably doesn't change much either, but it's pushing the level of the law to a higher level today. Oh, thank God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u100	Thank you, Mr Chalupa. Another factual point by Mr Kalousek, then duly registered with priority rights by the Minister of the Interior. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u101	Thank you. I would just like to assure all the soldiers of the Army of the Czech Republic that the terms that fell from the mouth of Mr Chalupa here are used exclusively to the soldiers of the former Czechoslovak People's Army, who were members of the criminal Communist Party, contrary to the ethics of armed forces. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u102	Now, therefore, the Minister of the Interior with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u103	It is evident that the House is really interested in this subject, and we have been debating it for the third hour. Perhaps it is a good thing that all things will appear during this debate. I would, by your means, Mr President, just a few things to Mr Kalousek. Of course, the directive is not being prepared from the interior ministers' pen, you know that very well, but it is being prepared within the Commission's expertise, and individual Member States at the first stage, before it even goes as the final proposal, so under COREPER and other things are being dealt with at the technical level. That's where I was talking about how the Home Office was involved, how we discussed the matter. And I think we've talked to the shooting public several times in the course of these preparations and debates about the directive. With our Czech shooting public. And we asked them about their opinions. Of course, before our own vote and negotiations, we negotiated across the interior ministers within the European Union, but the will was there after sending a signal. The directive is sending signals from some countries after the attacks in Charlie Hebdo. A rapid act of political will, which unfortunately at the end of the day does not look at the consequences of this. And we can't keep quiet, we can't keep quiet about quotas, we can't keep quiet about the directive. The fact that we are adopting this amendment today is a signal from the Czech Republic that we do not like the directive that has been adopted. If this law is passed, it allows us to create a backup system, whether they're inside or under defense, there's, in fact, no rivalry between defense and interior ministries, and we're ready to look for a common system that will work. And even if a government decides to implement this directive in the future, the system of active backups will allow those people to keep the weapons within this system. We are preparing to see if another, the next government, and I am not a proponent, decides to implement it so that we can create the conditions for certain backups and meet the conditions of the implementation and that it will hurt the Czech shooting public as little as possible. That's the main reason. In addition to expressing clearly the opposition to the directive, Mr President, we have approved in the Government that the Czech Republic will bring an action against the directive that we will defend ourselves in court. I have even heard that we are non-European, that we want to exercise our rights in court. I don't understand this argument anymore, because if I don't have the right to turn to the court, then where are we? That means that we clearly give our disagreement by suing each other. The problem, however, is that the action does not have suspensive effect and that it should be implemented within 15 months, and I am convinced that the court will not decide until then. So even with this proposal today, we are merely creating a system that will hurt the Czech arms holders as little as possible, and next to that, Parliament of the Czech Republic sends a clear signal that it values its own citizens, who hold the gun legally, that the system, how it works in the Czech Republic, is ideal. And it's probably about symbols. And politics is about symbols. So I'm just asking you for this symbol. Nothing more, nothing less.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u104	Thank you. And one more point in fact by Mr Miroslav Kalousek. I have no other application for a debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u105	Thank you. As much as you started, Minister of the Interior, by not agreeing with what you said, you basically confirmed my words. I also disagree with the directive and support the government of the Czech Republic to turn to the court, that is fair. Fifteen months is a little smiling. We have had 13 years of membership of the European Union, and it would certainly not be the first or the last directive with which implementation would be delayed for serious reasons. There would be a serious reason for the court to decide. As far as I know, your government is relatively slippery in the implementation of European standards and the sun is still rising and we are still members of the European Union. These are all just substitute arguments. The argument that caused so much emotion is the only one: this can protect us from the directive. And that's just not true.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u106	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. I don't have an application, I don't have an application, I'm done with the debate. Is the petitioner's representative interested in the final word? Yes. Please, Mr. Roman Váňa. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u107	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable shooting public, very briefly concluded. There was a very intense debate, almost two and a half hours. I think it is appropriate that we are talking about an amendment to the Constitutional Law, and that perhaps no one can say that we would not take this seriously enough and that there would not be all the arguments for and against it. At the beginning, it was said that we all have an analysis of the Parliamentary Institute. I might suggest you read it. I did it. This analysis says that the proposal does not conflict with European law, that it does not conflict with anything within our rights. And if we ask if it can prevent the European directive, it cannot, but it can help a little. That's what the analysis is, and we know that all the time, and all we've been saying is, we're not saying anything else. The performance that sounded here was basically two kinds. Quite clearly, yes, and not very much. Optimistic and negative. One of the previous speakers here said that we can't achieve anything, that we're lying to the voters, that there's a false and empty argument. Then I think you will judge by your own vote and the public will judge it, because all these performances were very closely watched not only by the people here at the gallery, but also out there. If anyone says it's part of the election campaign -- well, the election's coming up, that's true. And maybe it's part of the election campaign, maybe somebody does. Is that something wrong? So let the voters know what their representatives in Parliament think, let them know how they vote. There's nothing wrong with that. And it might be good if the voters also decide exactly how the parties stand here and vote. [[12.00 hours]] As far as the claim that this proposal is even against democratic principles is concerned, I must fundamentally reject that, which is stupid. This proposal is certainly not against democratic principles, on the contrary. I will remind you that this House, more than a year ago, has crossed out the right of government to disarm its population in the event of war in the arms and ammunition law. At that time both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Interior said clearly: The democratic government does not need such a right. It was some kind of relic from the past. And that step today is the next step in the chain of our actions. We say that citizens have the right to participate with their weapons in ensuring the security of their country. What do you want more democratic, for Kristus's pán? Someone here said that the number of weapons is increasing, and that will increase the risk of their abuse. Although such an idea is offered, statistics do not confirm it. Indeed, there has been a growing number of weapons in this country over the last year, and crime in general and crime in arms has been declining. Personally, I think that such a simple measure, direct or indirect, cannot be found in these events. We could go with examples of different countries, Switzerland, where every man who has completed military service has an automatic military weapon at home. This country isn't exactly dangerous. Or Great Britain, where they have banned any weapons, not only firearms, firearms, but you must not walk on the street or with a screwdriver unless you are a janitor, because it could be seen as illegal arms. Did it help the UK? We see it for ourselves. Currently, he also introduces weapons to those police officers who still walked without weapons to this day. But one thing can be admitted to the Brit: they are able to respond very quickly to the situation that is there. And that she's not good, we see that every day. In the papers, not only after the terrorist attacks, but after the thousands of attacks, like acid. In the last four years, more than 1,800 cases have been spilling acid on the streets that the United Kingdom has suffered. As for the fact that this constitutional amendment will not change anything against the European directive, this is not an entirely accurate statement. That this amendment will not prevent the adoption of this directive is clear because the directive has already been adopted, it is already in force. It is certain that the adoption of this amendment to the Constitutional Law will change the framework for the implementation of this directive. If we implement - and we will see this because it will be the first after the elections, i.e. when the next House, nothing will be implemented until then, because at least we will wait for the trial to end - so if the House decides to implement, it will also have the possibility, thanks to this constitutional law, to make maximum use of all the exceptions that the directive already contains today. And in the current version of this directive, there are a lot of exceptions, so it could almost be done by not touching our citizens at all. But we know that there are ambitious plans for further tightening up the directive, then, of course, it would affect our citizens. And there in the defense, the constitutional law will help us again. So, of course, it's not a panacea, it's not a salvation, but it'll help us. After all, even the practice of the institutions of the European Union demonstrates that where matters are dealt with by the constitutions or constitutional laws of individual countries, the pressure is not so strong on them. I think that the arguments for and against have actually been made to a sufficient extent today. That everyone can make a good decision. And I think it's nice when a Member here calculates the number of his weapons, but it's not good to think of himself, it's important to think of the citizens as well. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, too. I still wonder if the rapporteur, Mr Marek Benda, wants to take the final floor. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u109	I'm not even taking the final word anymore. I would just like to say a little bit that the opening word was not given to me by the Vice-President in violation of Section 57 of the Rules of Procedure, so I would just like it to be modified into the documents next time. I don't think it was deliberate on his part, but for the materials that are being prepared. The rapporteur, too, has the right to speak before the item is mentioned, even in the Rules of Procedure. I would like to state that the constitutional committee discussed this press at two meetings. He recommended him at a meeting on May 31st. At a meeting of 15 June when he was discussing him as a guarantee committee, we stated that no amendments were tabled, which means that we had no way of expressing our views on any proposals. It was not filed at second reading a motion for repayment or refusal. If I listened carefully to this debate, even though it was relatively long, there was no proposal to reject or return to second reading, just as there were no proposals for legislative technical changes and adjustments. That way, we can vote directly on the bill as a whole, because there is no further vote that would have preceded it. And I note that the Constitutional Committee has recommended this bill to the House for approval.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u110	Thank you. Before I vote, I ask Mr Lank if he wants to speak as rapporteur. Yes. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u111	I don't want to delay it any longer, so I will be very brief and limit myself to the statement that the Security Committee discussed this law at the 41st meeting on 19 April and clearly recommends that The Chamber of Deputies agreed with this draft constitutional law. I would like to recommend the same to you, and at the same time, I beg you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-002-083.u112	Thank you. Anyway, only the committee's recommendations, not your personal ones, should always be heard here. As the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Benda, said, there were no proposals for legislative technical amendments, including voting directly on the bill as a whole, including the rapporteur's giving the opinion of the committee. I wonder if it's understandable and I can put it to a vote. That's right. I'm registering your application for check-out. So I'm going to check you all out, and I'm going to ask you to sign up with your cards. And since this is a constitutional law, it requires a three-fifths majority of all Members to adopt it. I'm going to ask that the necessary number of votes be set at Kvorum 120. It's already done. Thank you. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the proposal of Members of Roman Váňa, Milan Chovanec, Igor Jakubčík, Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová, Bronislav Schwarz and others to issue a constitutional law amending constitutional law No. 110/1998 Coll., on Security of the Czech Republic, as amended by the Constitutional Act No. 300/2000 Coll., according to House press 1021, as approved by the Chamber of Deputies." Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against the proposal? It is a vote with order number 48; 168 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 139, against 9. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. [[A big round of applause.]] I thank you and end the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's the point.
