ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u1	56. Government bill amending Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care and Amendment of Some Related Acts, as amended, and Other Related Laws /Household Printing 862/ - First Reading In this case too, under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u2	Thank you. Once again, Mr President, dear colleagues. Allow me to introduce a government bill amending Act No. 326/2004 Coll., on Plant Health Care and amending some related laws, as amended, and other related laws. The proposal concerns plant protection products. The use of plant protection products is an essential factor affecting both the quality and quantity of plant production. The burning problem of the market for plant protection products is the placing on the market of illegal, i.e. counterfeit or unapproved, products. The main objective of the proposal is to reduce the presence of illegal plant protection products on the domestic market, thereby contributing to increased environmental protection and the food chain. This objective is implemented in particular by the following measures: strengthening control over the distribution chain of plant protection products and auxiliary plant protection products, through compulsory registration of distributors of products for professional use, or restriction of changing preparations, further refinement of the application of plant protection products and the increase of penalties for the most serious offences in the plant health sector. Another large range of proposed changes is linked to the issue of sustainable use of pesticides. Following the conclusions of the national action plan to reduce the use of pesticides, changes aimed at reducing the consumption of pesticides have been incorporated in the proposal to improve the regulation of aviation applications; professional competence for the management of plant protection products; restrictions on the use of preparations in certain areas; the rules on integrated plant protection and the reduction of the risks associated with the use of pesticides for human, animal, plant and environmental health. Following the adjustment of some of the obligations imposed and, in particular, in view of the current course of the legislative process, I would also like to ask for a 30-day reduction in the time limit for committee discussions, which I will read in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u3	Thank you and please take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, Mr Josef Kott. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, here too, I will try to poke out, in my opinion, the most important issues relating to this law. The proposed bill aims to strengthen control over the use of plant protection products and reduce the need for pesticides. The problems to which the bill responds can be divided into essentially the following relatively separate groups: firstly, integrated plant protection, secondly, the penetration of counterfeit plant protection products on the market in the Czech Republic, the authorisation process for plant protection products, other - rules for the sustainable use of plant protection products defined by the working group within the national action plan, the duration of the permit for wood drying plants and, lastly, the legislation on the registration of orchards. The objective of the proposal is implemented in particular by the following measures: it is a strengthening of control over the distribution chain of plant protection products, such as the registration of distributors and the limitation of changing chemical products, the refinement of the application of plant protection products and, last but not least, the alignment of sanctions with sanctions under similar regulations, such as chemical law. A large range of proposed changes is linked to the issue of sustainable use of pesticides in the Czech Republic following the implementation of Directive 2009/128/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 establishing a framework for Community action in order to achieve sustainable use of pesticides. The proposal includes the conclusions of the national action plan and aims to reduce the consumption of pesticides, as the Minister has said here, so I will only try briefly. It is a refinement of the regulation of aviation applications, secondly the competence for the management of products, thirdly the restriction on the use of products in certain areas, fourthly integrated plant protection and fifthly the reduction of the risks associated with the use of pesticides for human health, animals, plants with an impact on the environment. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u5	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I am opening a debate to which I am registering one application. Please, Mrs Havlová, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u6	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try to be very brief, but the reasons for adopting this law are quite clear. This concerns all of us, because it concerns not only healthy plants, but mainly impacts on our health. The amendment to the Plant Health Care Act is the right step to strengthen the possibility of identifying illegal plant protection products placed on our market. Positive effects can be expected in the area of control and acceleration of clarification of the origin of such products. The market for illegal plant protection products worldwide is one of the most profitable criminal activities and its share increases annually. It is therefore essential that we respond urgently and strengthen the possibilities of control authorities to identify such illegal products. Trade in illegal pesticides is one of the activities that Europol has long focused on, which carried out in November 2015 a twelve-day event called the Silver Axe, during which the main European ports and airports were controlled in seven countries - Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Slovenia and the Netherlands. During this unique event, Europol intercepted around 190 tons of illegal or counterfeit pesticides. In February 2017, the Office of the European Union for Intellectual Property published a study which concluded that the sale of illegal plant protection products in the European Union represented almost 14 percent of their total sales. A bit of irony: The Czech Republic was placed in a nice bronze position right behind Italy and Greece in the sale of illegal pesticides with its 17.9 %. The losses for industry are thus estimated at 36 million in the Czech Republic. EUR per year, which is almost one billion. The authors of the study also quite rightly warn against the possibility of health and environmental consequences of the use of illegal pesticides which have not been subjected to extensive and rigorous safety assessments, as required for properly registered plant protection products, on which we are placing increasingly high safety demands. Let us all remember that plant protection products subsequently affect human health. The reasons I have put forward here are a strong argument for letting this law go into second reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u7	Thank you, Madame. This is the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u8	Thank you. I would therefore like to ask for the support of the proposal to shorten the committees for 30 days, as well as for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u9	Thank you. Mr Bendl has a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't want to delay, I just wanted to ask when we're discussing this material in the agricultural committee, whether we could get into the hands of statistics on how the sanctions that are in the current law have been used. How many have been imposed, to what extent, and so on, because the sanctions here are quite radically lifting. And it's not that it's about criminals who are transnational and the like, but it's about ordinary beekeepers, for example. And I would like to know how the sanctions have been applied, how much we have used, so that we also have an overview of what is happening in this area in the Czech Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-002-056.u11	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I don't see an application. If that is the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the appellant and rapporteur if you want the final word. It's not like that. We will now consider the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion to the Agricultural Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see a suggestion. In that case, I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the proposal submitted be ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 263. 141 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 120, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the agricultural committee as a guarantee committee. [[9.30 hours]] The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. I wonder if anyone has a motion on the commandment to the next committee or committees. I don't see a suggestion. In that case, I will vote on the last proposal that has been made in the debate, and that is a reduction in the deadline for discussion to 30 days. I am opening the vote and I ask who agrees that the time limit for the hearing be reduced to 30 days, press the button and raise his hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 264; 142 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 97, against 3. I am of the opinion that the proposal has been approved and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 30 days. Thank you, and I am done discussing this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
