ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-010-019.u1	19. Members of Stanislav Polčák and Věra Kovářová's proposal to issue a law amending Act No. 128/2000 Sb., on municipalities, as amended /house print 249/ - second reading Mrs Věra Kovářová, Mrs Věra Kovářová, shall state the proposal. A colleague of the Kořenek is already at the rapporteur's table. So, Madame, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-010-019.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I present to you today as a petitioner for a rather bearded bill - it was submitted almost three years ago - which aims to respond to some senseless prosecutions of local and regional politicians, which we believe are due to misleading legislation in recent years. As a general rule, this is a situation where the municipality preferred a certain long-term public interest to simple, economically short-term rationality and followed the prosecution of their representatives. Our novel aims to avoid such intriguing. By Article 38 (1) (a) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. We therefore impose a provision on municipalities: By violating the obligations laid down in the first and second sentences, such treatment of the property of the municipality is not such as to pursue another important interest of the municipality, which is duly justified. The amended provisions in their entirety should then, according to our conviction, read as follows: § 38 para. 1. The property of the municipality must be used efficiently and economically in accordance with its interests and tasks arising from the legal scope. The municipality is obliged to care for the preservation and development of its property. The breach of the obligations laid down in the first and second sentences is not such as to dispose of the property of the municipality, which pursues another important interest of the municipality, which is duly justified. The municipality keeps accounts according to the Accounting Act. As we write in the explanatory memorandum, the explicit inclusion of the criteria of another important interest of the municipality opens up the scope for taking into account outside the economic aspects of the decisions taken. A typical case is the assessment of a specific disposition with regard to its effectiveness for the development of the municipality or the importance for the solution of neighbourly relations. The requirements arising from this very criterion may be contrary to the requirements based on closely economically understood criteria of economy and efficiency, while it cannot be reasonably argued that the second criteria should prevail in the case of local authorities with regard to their constitutionally guaranteed self-government. Finally, I would like to thank my colleague Kořenek at this point, whose amendment extended the original draft on the provisions relating also to the capital of Prague and the regions, i.e. all levels and types of regional government in the Czech legal order. This amendment has been approved by the Committee on Public Administration and has my support. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-010-019.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Lady Věra Kovářová. At first we ordered the proposal to the Public Administration Committee, regional development as a guarantee committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as the House's press 249/2. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration, Mr Petr Kořenko, to inform us about the committee's deliberations and to justify the amendments. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-010-019.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Given my vocal indisposition, I'll be very brief. I will just say that the resolution of the Public Administration Committee of the 48th meeting of 18 October 2016... The Public Administration Committee, regional development at its 48th meeting after Ing's statement of reasons. Věra Kovářová, Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, and following the report by Mr Petr Kořenko and following the debate, adopted a resolution recommending the House of Deputies to discuss and approve the adoption of the amendments. These amendments are part of the Committee's resolution number 249/2. Furthermore, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to present the resolution to the Chamber of Deputies, which I am doing, and at the same time to instruct the Chair of the Committee to send the resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you and I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-12-ps2013-056-06-010-019.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate that I have no application for. I'm looking at who's reporting from the scene. Nobody. In that case, I am ending the general debate and will probably not be interested in the final words. I am opening a detailed debate. I also have no application for it, and I am also ending the debate in detail. In that case, I can stop because there were no suggestions, even second reading of point 19 to print number 249. I thank the Member and the rapporteur and end with item 19. We have some time left until 18 o'clock, so we can start the promised point.
