ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u1	197. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Paris Agreement /German press 932/ - first reading We dealt with this House press on 10 November last year at the 50th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate. On 10 November the Chamber of Deputies decided that the presence of Minister of Industry Jan Mládek, whom I hereby welcome, is necessary in discussing this point. At the 53rd meeting on 1 December, we interrupted this point again, as this condition was not met. I ask that Mr Václav Zemek, Mr Robin Böhnisch, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will therefore continue with the interrupted general debate, which was the first to be heard by the Minister of Industry and Trade Jan Mládek. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me add here the opinion of the Ministry of the Environment, which I have managed, to the Minister of the Environment, to the ratification of the Paris Agreement. The Czech Republic, together with other EU Member States, has committed itself to reducing greenhouse gas emissions before the Paris conference through the Climate and Energy Framework by 2030, which was approved by the highest representatives in October 2014. This set a binding target for all sectors and sources of emissions - at least 40% of greenhouse gas emissions reductions by 2030 compared to the 1990 reference year. I'd say that again in my own words. The debate on the impact on the Czech industry has already taken place, and if we question COP 21, we will only make our position worse, because the Czech Republic has already committed itself to this regardless of whether COP 21 will ratify or not, and for the Czech Republic it is better, of course, if not only EU countries, but also countries around the world, which is the intention of the Paris conference or COP 21. Thus, the commitments arising from the Paris conference do not go beyond the level that we have already accepted as the Czech Republic in the framework of the commitments made by the EU. The main means of fulfilling this commitment is the emission allowance trading system, i.e. the EU ETS. At the same time, it is important to point out that the Paris Agreement contains a point on the provisions of the emissions trading scheme in order to achieve cost-effective emission reductions. This system is actively used within the EU and is basically its pioneer, which is why setting up the emission allowance trading system is crucial for the Czech Republic. The negotiation of good conditions is now essential for the Czech industry in the context of the ongoing revision of the emission allowance trading system. In particular, the Czech Republic requires the abolition of pre-defined flat-rate reductions in reference values for determining the quantity of allocated allowances free of charge and, on the other hand, the determination of allocation on the basis of reference values revised before 2021; the limitation of application of the correction factor reducing free allocation and ensuring transparency of its use; a justification for the proposed values of the criteria for the possibility of inclusion of the sector in the list of sectors at risk of carbon leakage. Rules on the protection of the economy against the closure of higher-emission enterprises CO2 must be set according to the Czech Republic so that 100 per cent of allowances are allocated free of charge to the most endangered industries, i.e. without further reduction of allocation. For the MIT, the priority is to avoid reducing free allocation by sectors at high risk of carbon leakage in order to maintain their competitiveness. At the same time, it is important for the revision of the EU ETS to ensure a long-term, stable and efficient framework and an appropriate price signal to strengthen cost-effective CO2 reduction at EU level. However, accession to the Paris Agreement can bring many opportunities to Czech industrial enterprises and their experts. These consist of involvement in investment projects in developing countries aimed at climate protection. The Czech Republic is currently involved in one of the most important instruments of financing climate measures under the agreement and this is the Green Climate Fund. This represents a significant potential for the application of the Czech private sector and other entities, e.g. in the field of science and research, in the preparation and implementation of projects which will be financed from its resources. I would also like to say that reducing emissions through the EU ETS is one of the three instruments to achieve the desired reduction in greenhouse gas emissions, covering around 45% of total EU greenhouse gas emissions. The second instrument is the new proposal for a regulation on the inclusion of greenhouse gas emissions and their declines due to land use and forestry, so-called LULUCF. The third instrument is the shared effort that covers sectors not covered by previous instruments. These are buildings, agriculture, transport or waste. The issue of reducing emissions must therefore be addressed in all areas of the economy. The MIT communicates very actively with representatives of the business sphere and cooperates actively with the Ministry of Environment. The Czech Republic's rámcový Position on EU ETS Reform, which was prepared and approved on 24 September 2015 by the relevant PSP Committee of the Czech Republic and on 2 December 2015 by the Senate on the recommendation of its relevant committees, also corresponds to the views of the manufacturing industry, which you may have received at the end of last year. To conclude, however, I would like to assure you that the MIT and I will personally make every effort to maintain the competitiveness of the Czech industry. At the same time, we devote our utmost effort to monitoring the implementation of the Paris Agreement worldwide, paying attention to possible actions of the new US administration and evaluating the implementation of the Paris Agreement, which is expected every five years. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u3	Thank you, Minister. Mr Jan Zahradník is another duly signed up for the debate, which started his speech last time during the last hearing. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u4	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start my speech today - which I actually think is the third speech on this point, still in one speech form - to mention what Minister Mládek said. It sounds that way in the last few weeks, perhaps, that the debate on the Paris Agreement is coming to an end, that we have nothing to do with it, that we have already fulfilled its conditions, and that therefore it is not worth talking about itself, its effects, its time-frame, but its factual framework. The Minister has listed a number of measures that our government has already taken and which, of course, are taking place during dramatic negotiations with entrepreneurs who see them as limiting our competitiveness. [[12.10 hours]] Just a reminder that the COP 21 conference in Paris was held at the end of 2015. Twenty thousand accredited participants were present and 45,000 were involved. It was a huge event. It's been prolonged. It went into the long night hours in Paris. And the output was expected with relative voltage and also with expectations. I don't know why not. There have been some fundamental contradictions about who is more responsible for global climate change and who is less. Who's richer and who's richer. Who, then, will have to cover the costs that the Paris conference has started to combat climate change. By the way, it is $100 billion each year that developed countries should provide less to combat global warming in developed countries. Another controversial moment, which seemed to have triggered the feverish negotiations in Paris every night, was the binding nature of the agreement. The agreement was originally intended to be a legal instrument to guide the whole long-term process of combating climate change. In the end, it turns out that such a commitment is not in the agreement, and so are the representatives of our government who are trying to make it seem a little less difficult. The third problem was the setting of targets to combat change. It was about limiting the rise in average temperature. The magical limit there was a 2 °C increase in temperature. Alternatively, with greater and more rigor on themselves one 1.5 °C increase in temperature. Originally, it was expected that the time frame behind which the temperature would be so compressed, maintained, and the increase would be limited by our draconian measures would be the entire century. However, when we look at the text of the Paris Agreement - and I have, of course, read it, although I originally did not intend to, but if we are to vote on it, we have to ratify it, so of course we must know the text. In my opinion, the text of the agreement expresses the desperation of its authors over the fact that during that week the relentless demands of environmental activists with the rest of common sense that perhaps remained in the heads of the politicians involved were not combined. The agreement in Article 2 states that its aim is to improve the global response to the threats to climate change - I quote from this agreement now - following sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty. Among other things, by helping (a) maintaining an increase in the average global temperature well below 2 °C compared to the pre-industrial revolution values and efforts to ensure that the increase in temperature does not exceed 1,5 °C compared to those prior to the industrial revolution, and recognising that this would significantly reduce the risks and impacts of climate change; (b) increasing the capacity to adapt to the adverse effects of climate change and strengthening the resilience to climate change and low emission development in a way that does not endanger food production; (c) alignment of financial flows with low-emission climate-resistant development. The agreement will be implemented in accordance with the principle of equality and common, albeit different responsibilities and appropriate competences, taking into account specific national conditions. This is simply a number of concepts that significantly diversify developed, less advanced countries, greater obligations, fewer obligations. It's used here as a time term for the beginning of our investigation, the category of Marxism-Leninism, the industrial revolution. The translator used these words. Although a possible translation of the pre-industrial era could also be somehow useful. When we look at what this means, we find that if we want to monitor these values, temperature increases, we have to extrapolate those values actually until about 1750, when coal becomes massively used as a source of energy for the emerging, emerging machines that have actually moved around the world, then, in fact, only the European industry. Article 4 - and here I kept trying to find a time frame for the Paris agreement. Article 4 states that in order to achieve a long-term temperature target, the Parties will endeavour to reach the peak of global greenhouse gas emissions as soon as possible, with the agreement that the Parties in developing countries will reach this peak longer and then, according to the best available scientific knowledge, will rapidly reduce emissions - note the complex sentence structure - in order to strike a balance between anthropogenic emissions from sources and the reduction of greenhouse gases by means of falls in the second half of this century on the basis of equality and following sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty. So here we see that in the Paris Agreement, there's actually only one determination of time. No year 2100, which was originally expected, but is defined by some indefinite period of time, the second half of this century. So the period after 2050 and the year 2100. There is talk of achieving a balance between anthropogenic emissions from sources and reducing greenhouse gases through slumps. Specifically, in the second half of this century. And it's all kind of connected to one sentence, to one line with a politically correct term, which says that this must be done on the basis of equality and following sustainable development and efforts to eradicate poverty. It is therefore clear that authors and signatories to the Paris Agreement consider global greenhouse gas emissions and anthropogenic emissions from sources to be the main culprit of global climate change, if this global climate change exists. And then as the main indicator of global change. Here the main indicator is reported the average global temperature and especially its increase. And here I have to say that on this canon, there are other scientifically well-founded views of this kind of undisputed truth, which the authors of the Paris Agreement sort of equip us with. I would like to give an example here from the article Indirect and direct thermodynamic influence of wetlands on the climate of authors Pokorný, Hesslerová, Huryna and David Harper, both from ENKI, o.p.s., Třeboň, both from the University of Lester. Intergovernmental panel - here I quote from their article. When studying climate change, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change focuses on average global temperature values and warns against global warming as a result of the increase in greenhouse gas concentration in the atmosphere. Thus, the main assumption with which the IPCC, the intergovernmental panel, works, neglects water and vegetation as mechanisms that shape the climate. mír and others are listed in 2013. Water vapour is the main greenhouse gas that enters the atmosphere in a natural way and has a major impact on climate creation on the earth. Its amount in the atmosphere is more dependent on air temperature than on emissions. For these reasons, it is considered as a feedback factor rather than a factor which could have an impact on climate change. In an anthropogenic way, i.e. in the form of emissions, water and water vapour enter the atmosphere essentially in a trace way from irrigation systems or from power cooling towers. This is negligible in terms of global climate change. [[12.20 hours]] The concentration of CO2 and CA4 in the atmosphere is then considered as a controlling factor, although the amount of water vapor is one to two orders higher. Here, specifically, the concentration of CO2 and CA4 is 390, or 1.8 in the case of CA4 particles per million, ppm, subject to fluctuations. The concentration of CO2 in the northern hemisphere is 20 ppm lower in summer, indicating the effect of vegetation, whereas the amount of water vapour in the air, expressed using a volume unit, is at 21 °C 22 400 ppm, i.e. particles per million, in the case of a temperature of 40 °C already 62 200 ppm. At the same time, water vapour concentrations change rapidly both in time and in space. The authors of ideas about the fundamental influence of anthropogenic emissions from sources ignore the influence of water vapour and also ignore the need for water management on our planet to be monitored more significantly and closely. In this context, I would like to mention the average global temperature indicator. This indicator uses the conference as the main figure. At the same time, the average global temperature is calculated, otherwise it is not possible. It depends on the input data and the methods by which we achieve this result and how we interpret this single number effectively. Unfortunately, however, the authors say that this temperature cannot be considered as a value that speaks of the global climate and can be used to characterize open systems. The climate is made up of gradients, i.e. different values of different meteorological elements, especially temperature and pressure. As a result, phenomena such as storms, tornadoes, sea currents, etc. are formed. The climate cannot be characterised globally, but locally, according to the authors of this article. And they set an interesting example of two ecosystems, deserts and tropical rain forest. In the desert by day, temperatures reach, say, 40 degrees Celsius, and at night, they drop to zero. During the day, tropical rainforests have temperatures of about 25 °C, falling to 15 °C at night. In both cases, we calculate the average temperature in both ecosystems as 20 °C. But we will recognize that the climate is completely different. I will now return from this article to reality, to discussing in our House, where the rapporteur doktor In his opening speech, Böhnisch said: The agreement obliges the Contracting Parties to establish and implement national contributions to reduce emissions. These national contributions are to be revised every five years, with the following being higher than the previous. It recommends the Parties to maintain greenhouse gas reservoirs - meaning, for example, forests - and to implement measures to reduce emissions caused by deforestation and forest degradation." Here, please mention only one thing, one word, and this is the Šumava National Park, which we significantly influenced by the approval of Act No. 114. Ten years ago, today we have January 19th, the Orkán Kyrill, who has huge consequences to this day, has 20,000 hectares of dried forest and the possibility of further drying, if the law approved by us applies. Minister Mládek here promises to ensure that our country has competitiveness and tells us that our concerns about the Paris Agreement are odd. We just need to realise that Minister Mládek, although still a minister at the moment, maybe even a few months, but what will be after October 2017, will be decided by the voters, while this agreement is planned for the entire next century before us. I would also like to comment critically on this idea to plan something for almost a hundred years. Let's just consider a mental example. Let's take 1906. This was a time when the world and Europe developed very well. If we want to know any evidence, let's look around us in our regional and district cities. We have a whole series of buildings that were built at that time. They're school buildings, different authorities, hospitals, and so on. These buildings still dominate these cities. Our ancestors were doing very well at the time and could also plan some of their visions by 2000. You could also say - we're doing well now, let's plan something here for a hundred years. Those people could also ask questions, maybe some did what would be a symbol of the magical 20th century, which was so tempting in front of them at the time. What could it be? An airplane, a car allowing a revolution in travel, industrial lines allowing the production of any means, products improving people's lives, or, on the other hand, a universal electoral right that was then going on, applied in politics, education in universities, for example, for women. These could all be the potential symbols of the 20th century. And what is such a symbol really? How was the century? Here I can mention for interest - writer Jiří Padevět, author of the book Blood Summer 1945 and other books, in an interview for Lidové noviny from 3 January this year, says that when he analyzes how the 20th century developed, such a symbol according to him is the cattle wagon, i.e. the means of transport by which people who did not want to go anywhere, who are being taken somewhere. It's interesting, maybe a bit of a marginal analogy, but if we think of World War I, if we think of Stalinův's cleansing and famines in the Soviet Union, if we think of the Holocaust, if we think about the other things that the 20th century was burdened with, it's not entirely from the point of view. There is another article in the Lidové noviny of the same day, which specifically deals with the Paris Agreement. His author is a university teacher and ecologist Pavel Nováček. Among other things, he quotes climatetologist James Hansen, who views the Paris Agreement as a fraud. Hansen says these are worthless words. The conference didn't bring any action, just promises. The commitments agreed in Paris are meaningless if we are not willing to start taxing greenhouse gas emissions, profesor Nováček quotes his colleague as climateologist Hansen. And prof. Nováček writes further, and it is very informative for us that if we wanted to keep the increase in global temperature with a 66 percent probability below 2 °C over a given period framed by the second half of the 21st century, we can release greenhouse gases at today's level for 20 years. If we accept the more ambitious demand to keep the temperature rise below 1.5 °C, it's only been ten years. [[12.30 hours]] Nováček also writes that limiting the increase in global temperature below 2 °C - I note that if it makes sense and can improve the global climate situation - according to Nováček, it is not impossible, but it will certainly not be painless and significantly restrict us, humanity, in our consumer challenges. And I add that this is not mentioned anywhere in the Paris Agreement, and neither the Czech Government which has already approved it, nor the Minister of the Environment who signed it, tells us that it will not be possible for citizens in the election year to obtain energy by burning any organic matter, i.e. the harmful, emissions in a way, in about 20 years or even in 10 years. And they don't tell people it's gonna mean huge changes in their lifestyle, not to mention the competitiveness of our industry. Here, I think, the question is whether what we are dealing with right now is politics, whether it is not just a clash of two scientific hypotheses, one that, thanks to the media, has enormous support from scientists, perhaps, but certainly environmentalists, certainly environmental activists all over the world, namely the thesis on the anthropological origin of global climate change, or is it a clash of this ideological platform with scientists who are soberer, who question the mainstream of climate alarmism. And I have to say, it's clearly politics. It's even ideology. The authors of these ideas, both the ideas themselves and the proposals for their solution, want money from us. They want a huge amount of money from the state budget of the countries. I don't know, we can take an example. With us, the support of renewable resources costs 44 billion. per year. We need to put energy label on the houses. We've got to mix the bio-components into the car fuel. We are now about to put an end to thermal energy in the next two decades. Who will heat our housing estates that are connected to brown coal heating plants and so on and so on. The Paris Agreement contains a commitment of the Czech Republic, i.e. commitments to participate in the so-called Warsaw International Mechanism for Loss and Accidents, for lost and damages. The principle is that, through insurance or other financial mechanisms, the Czech Republic will cover losses and damages which will be assessed as resulting from climate change and which occurred in other parts of the world. The extent to which the Czech Republic will participate in these damages, as well as the extent and financial expression of these damages, will be determined by the said institution, on the basis of the rules laid down by the Conferences of the Agreement, i.e. again by the international organisation. The damage mentioned above, should be stressed, will be considered hurricanes, floods and similar weather phenomena, which may be insured, but also called. uninsurable phenomena such as losses and damage caused by rising sea level and so on. In doing so, the Warsaw International Mechanism explicitly states that the compensation should also be the subject of the so-called compensation. economically incalculable damage. Thus, the ratification to which the House is about to propose will be accepted by the Czech Republic and will be responsible for financial compensation for the damage caused by natural disasters in the territories of other states themselves, or their inhabitants, in a way that is undefined and without a defined procedure as to how these damages will be numbered. The international body will then decide on compensation and quantification. And here I ask myself for the first time: Is this procedure compatible with the Constitution of the Czech Republic? Isn't this about transferring the authority of the Republic to an international authority? Something like this is possible without the explicit consent of Czech citizens, e.g. by means of a public vote, by means of a referendum? There seems to be no doubt that we are currently seeing global economic change, but we have to wonder whether the idea that people have caused this change by their life on the planet is correct. [[Climate?]] The climate, of course, changes continuously over time, changes in long periods in the order of centuries, millennia, and various oscillations around long-term trends are hard to explain. Although there are different hypotheses explaining longer-term and relatively more permanent trends, we cannot explain medium-term, short-term changes. And that is what climate alarmists are using, forcing us to doctrine by people caused by global warming. The question is, what will all this cost us? Here I quote from the presentation report for the House, the House press material for the Paris Agreement. It says, from the point of view of the impact on the state budget, it will be necessary to count on a mandatory contribution to the budget of the agreement. It can be assumed that this contribution will be in the approximate amount as for the Protocol, i.e. EUR 38 354 for the years 2016 and 2017, and the specific amount of the contribution will then be determined on the basis of the budget of the Agreement to be adopted at the first meeting of their Contracting Parties. The first meeting shall take place as soon as the conditions for its entry into force have been met pursuant to Article 4 (1) of the Agreement. 21, and the contribution will then be paid from budget chapter 315. I'm sure these are expenses I don't have in mind. Here I mean the 100 billion whose cover the Czech Republic will participate as a developed state. 100 billion. dollars per year will be redistributed from developed to developing countries. There is no indication of the amount that will be due to the Czech Republic. Who will negotiate this share? Will it be the Czech Republic or, on behalf of it and all other Member States, the European Commission? So will the European Commission also vote for the Czech Republic? So what do we do to transfer our rights to the European Union? Then, of course, an interesting situation arises from the perspective of the Constitution, and secondly, I mention the constitutional problem. The Czech Republic then takes on the ratification of this agreement the rights and obligations under international law and, given that this is an international treaty, i.e. de facto law and the obligations of the government of the Czech Republic, it transfers rights to the EU, but it retains our obligation to find the money and transfer it to the given fund. Such a procedure seems to imply a government obligation, a procedure under Art. 10a of the Constitution, and it is not possible to refer to the EU accession given by the 2004 referendum because the rights and obligations arise by ratifying the Agreement itself, let's say, when this happens, in 2017. It is possible to ask more and more questions about how many jobs our Republic will lose by destroying the entire thermal energy sector, how much it will cost us to support the construction of new alternative, solar and wind power plants, how much it will cost to subsidize their operation. How much - but no one is asking yet - we will have to spend on their ecological disposal when their lifetime is over. The House of Deputies' authorities have long expressed their views on similar problems. I am referring to the repeated resolution by the Committee on European Affairs, as well as the Economic Committee on the so-called 'Economic Committee'. the summer climate package and others, and now recently the government's and tripartite statement on the so-called. The anti-fossil law, which has already been postponed by the economic committee, has now actually been put on ice by the decision of the government, which, in agreement with tripartite, withdraws the anti-fossil law. On Monday, Minister Brabec performed in Events and comments on Czech Television and announced this fact. [[12.40 hours]] Among other things, the government wants to examine the social implications of the anti-fossil law. The programme's moderator logically argued that if the government rejects the anti-fossil law as the main instrument for combating climate change, why in the House it intends to ratify a Paris agreement that actually has the same, if not more dramatic, harder, I will say worse consequences. I find the Minister dissatisfied with the impact of the Activist policy of his ministry, so he said what Minister Mládek said here today that we are already fulfilling the limits for emissions, so we can easily approve the Paris Agreement. By some unwanted phenomenon, the minister called the agreement even the Paris Declaration. I believe it was an accident. So here we have to say that this is not a declaration, that this is a hard agreement that we will have to implement and which our industry, our energy, and the way we live our citizens will make a significant difference. And I want to mention one more thing here, and that is an international policy issue. The newly elected US President Donald Trump, who will take up his duties tomorrow, considers that under his leadership the United States of America will withdraw from the Paris Agreement. It may be debatable how this will end up, but it would certainly be worth waiting for America to stand up to the Paris Agreement, the United States as the world's largest pollutionr. In my view, the idea that the European Union states themselves would bear the burden of impact, particularly the economic burden of the Paris Agreement, is totally unacceptable. And one last and three I would like to say a warning of the conflict of the Paris Agreement with the constitutional order of our Republic. The agreement itself assumes that the signatory country will implement a set of its own legislative measures to comply with the agreement. These measures are to be submitted under the Agreement in the form of Intended Nationally Determined Contributions as soon as possible after the conclusion of the Agreement, as far as possible last year. But the commitment, and I think the Minister also mentioned here, has already been approved by the Czech Republic to meet these strict limits, has already been submitted by the European Commission and Latvia in 2015, less than a year before the conclusion of the agreement itself, and actually two years before we are now dealing with it as an authority entrusted and competent to ratify this agreement. Thus, a foreign state with the European Commission made a commitment on behalf of the Czech Republic that the Czech Parliament will make legislative changes to meet the then non-existent agreement, which the Czech Parliament is now about to ratify after two years. So by ratification, we would confirm our commitment to change the laws that no one had previously consulted with us. So the question is whether it is constitutionally conformal, whether it is related to our Constitution. In fact, the Commission, on behalf of our Republic, negotiated an agreement in which it had committed the entire government and Parliament of the Czech Republic to change legislation in advance without further negotiation. And now it wants Parliament to ratify this agreement and thereby reaffirm our commitment. Plus, the even more serious thing is that we've been talking about the whole future century, decades of it. So we commit the House, the Senate and the governments, which will be many in the future, until 2050 plus. So, and our successors, who will certainly be sitting here, will be forced to pass laws according to a commitment that has been formulated by the European Commission without Parliament's knowledge and whether or not the Czech Republic will be a member of the Union in that future, or whether or not any powers will be transferred constitutionally to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, I have drawn attention to some of the controversial moments in the text of the Paris Agreement. I also pointed out that there are doubts about its consistency with constitutional order. In my opinion, we should reject the ratification of the Paris Agreement, not be frightened by the fact that we have already been one of the last to ratify the Agreement, that it will mean some shame to us or who knows what else. Unfortunately, the Minister has already signed it and approved it doesn't change anything. The Chamber of Deputies is a sovereign in this country, and the government and its ministers are responsible for it. In order to make a decision with full knowledge of the effects of the Paris Agreement on our economy, energy and competitiveness at all, I propose the following proposal. I propose a resolution on which the House would vote after the general debate on this point, which reads as follows: "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic interrupts the discussion of the Government's draft law by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is presented to the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree to the ratification of the Paris Agreement, House press 932, until the Government of the Czech Republic submits information to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic on the effects of the Paris Agreement on constitutional order and on the economy of the Czech Republic." And in the future, when we come up with the allocation of this House's press to the various committees, I intercede, and for the sake of order here at the end of my speech, I propose that the Committee on the Environment should also deal with the Government's proposal for a law to ratify the Paris Agreement. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry, am I to take this as a procedural motion or as a motion for a resolution from the House, which is only voted on at third reading?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u6	I was just trying, Mr President, to make it clear that I meant that this resolution should not be voted on until the end of the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u7	After the end of the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u8	It's a term that I think is...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u9	Yes, it is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Please. Okay, thank you, the proposal will be noted. Certainly, thank you, I will ask you to formulate this resolution and thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u10	The resolution - shall I read it again? Nay, when it comes to that. [[- Yes.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u11	Yes, it is not a procedural proposal, it is a motion for a resolution. Thank you for specifying the deadline. Thank you. I have two factual points now. First of all, with a point of fact, Mr Milan Urban, followed by Mr Jan Klán, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, the defenders of this Paris Agreement say: it's no big deal, it's quite innocent material. And it looks relatively positive and innocent at first glance. I think, of course, that this is a material or an agreement that has really far-reaching implications, or it will have into the lives of citizens and the economy of the Czech Republic. This will result in commitments relating to energy, i.e. industry, and thus in the final form of citizens. Liabilities relating to transport, which significantly change transport at all, or resources for transport, are commitments relating to agriculture, they are commitments relating to everyday life. In my opinion, until it is clear what instruments we want to meet these objectives, which strategy to implement these commitments in these individual fields, we cannot simply support such a general agreement. The advocates say: these will be huge opportunities for industry, for the economy, for the creative industry. Maybe I do. But we have to ask what opportunities it will be, what tools it will implement this possible agreement. None of this suggests this material from Paris. That is why I think the impact can be drastic, and I would very much hesitate to support such an agreement without knowing the effects and instruments. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u13	Thank you, honourable Member. With a factual remark, Mr Jan Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u14	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, I have made a point of fact, because it will certainly not come to my contribution today. I've already pointed out here last year who's really responsible for global warming. I was the one who said it was deregulated capitalism. We can discuss this. But I have already understood here why, for example, the ODS advocates say that global warming does not exist. Mr Zahradník, by your means, said here some two studies, one that they support, and the other that refute it. I took to help my book This Changes Every Thing, This changes everything, Naomi Kleinová, Capitalism against Climate, where pages 42 and 43 talk about your former ODS chairman Václav Klaus, who was often invited to various climate conferences especially to the United States to confirm that global warming does not exist and that it is not really anyone's fault, so we let it flow freely and everything will be fine. So, just so you know, your former chairman is also quoted in that book. So I'm not surprised you're defending a doctrine like this. However, as has already been mentioned here, tomorrow the inauguration of the new American President Donald Trump, so I am very curious to see how he will stand up to this Paris climate agreement because he has declared that the United States will break into oil. Just once again, there is really a carbon lobby, which is also mentioned in this book, see This Changes Every Thing, how it is all connected to the policy. So it's really a political problem. And the claim that global warming doesn't exist is quite ridiculous. The fact that we have relatively strong frosts here today, in our country, in the Czech Republic, is also the result of global warming, even though El Nino and others play a role there. But just because we have really cold here doesn't mean global warming doesn't exist. It's hot on the other side of the planet. It's cold here. So global warming, in my opinion, is due to deregulated capitalism. [[Time warning]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. As a capitalist in charge of regulating your time, thank you for keeping it. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Michal Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u16	Hello, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief contribution to the climate conference, or the climate agreement from Paris, which has caused, otherwise, a great debate not only among experts but also with politicians, which we see today and at the House's meeting. We're here to put into life a pact from Paris. Before we start putting labels on each other as an eco-terrorist or another before we start thinking that our planet isn't green, but it's a different color, let's see what the goal of achieving a global reduction in greenhouse gas emissions can bring us. The fulfilment of the agreement does not necessarily mean for the public relatively abstract purchases of emission credits from other countries or the possibility of penalties for emissions of carbon dioxide in aviation or shipping. On the contrary. In particular, the area - and here I would like to answer my previous speaker Mr Urban's questions and try to draw closer to what the climate conference, or its implementation in the individual states, can be beneficial. I would like to mention here that, in particular, the area of energy efficiency and energy savings can be the real engine of our economy and investment opportunities with high additional value. As a small example, I think understood by everyone, I would mention energy savings in buildings, which unfortunately today have been limited to such a simple heating and changing of windows and doors. At the same time, energy savings in buildings can reach up to tens of percent. I am talking, in particular, about automation and control, i.e. so-called. intelligent houses. What are the most important savings? In particular in control, regulation of heating, air conditioning, ventilation in time, in control of lighting based on lighting conditions, presence of man, etc. The magic is that these are high value added disciplines and their appropriate support can greatly benefit our economy. Moreover, the solution is not too complicated. We are all calling for support to be shifted from montovens based on cheap labour to the promotion of more sophisticated disciplines. And that's where the opportunity really is. It can start with public buildings where energy savings requirements are clearly defined and where part of State aid can also be transferred. Of course, energy savings alone in buildings will not solve our climate goals. But they are a good and, I think, a concrete and understandable example of the fact that the climate agreement from Paris can also be seen positively from the point of view of business and investment opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u17	I thank Mr Kučer. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Marek Benda - who I do not see. I therefore withdraw his application and ask Mr Petr Bendl. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u18	Thank you for the floor. Don't worry, I won't be as detailed as my colleague the Zahradník, who really took it from the grunt and talked about details, asked questions that are not irrelevant. I think that each of you sitting here is clear that the Paris Agreement is not just any document that really obliges us to do serious things. And aside from the fact that there is a specified amount written in the material submitted by the government, that we should contribute about one million crowns to some administration of the funds, but there is neither a crown nor an indication of how much and how much the state budget will contribute to the future that the Czech Republic will send to developing countries some money for climate protection and investment related to this. Perhaps the Minister of Industry and Trade suggested it here when he said that it would actually be a big advantage for Czech companies, because we will be sending money there and they could ever build something there and the like, and participate in some development, etc., etc. However, I regret that there is no specific commitment for the Czech Republic at least in some order, as it seems. So I have a question about the Minister of the Environment - who's on the phone right now, so I don't know if he's listening or not listening. At the same time, I would be very interested, because nothing is hidden in the Czech Republic, and I know that the Ministry of the Environment, or at least that, is already preparing legislation that concerns and is based on the very argumentatively approved Paris Agreement, because the government is counting on the Paris Agreement to pass through the Chamber of Deputies, and there is a paragrafo text. There is no such thing. The Minister is wagging his head. I hope so, but we deserve it. We deserve to know what specific impacts in the field of legislation, business and its consequences, in the field of forest management, in the field of farming, what it will actually be - what it will be based on. Because logically, if the Paris Agreement goes through the Chamber of Deputies negotiations and its approval, then the government will then come here, perhaps the Minister of Industry, perhaps the Minister of the Environment and others, and he will say: you already agreed to it, you already have it there. And it's there in those weird words and sentences, there's a lot of stuff written there. And the devil is in the details. We should know because not everyone can read brussels or sentences as can be read, the work here is read by fellow Zahradník, what it will actually mean to us in practice. [[13.00 hours]] I think that the Chamber of Deputies would deserve this so that, together with this material, a proposal for legislative measures would come in which it would reflect what is actually waiting for us to not all be put before the finished cause, and the agricultural committee would not have to explain to farmers what all the restrictions are in connection with the Paris Agreement, so that we do not have to explain to forest owners, but also to the state budget, by which the Ministry of Agriculture would have to correct its economic prospects for farming in the Forests of the Czech Republic, as it will, of course, concern them, private forest owners, agricultural entrepreneurs in general. There will be sanctions for this, there will be a committee, or there will be an agreement, and it is in the presentation report, which the government has given to this material, that it will be created, I will read it exactly so I am not wrong, I have it here - I do not have it. It is a committee if you want a commission that will monitor the implementation and resolution of our commitments related to the Paris Agreement. I'd like to know what the committee will look like, who it will be occupied with. Will the leaders of the business unions be there? Or will there be only representatives of the Ministry of the Environment and its related organizations? How will this be dealt with in the future? But I see that everyone is looking at the fact that it is 13.01 and Mr President is definitely going to interrupt me.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u19	He's not.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u20	He's not, he's not, he's not, he's not, so I'm just gonna keep talking. So I would like to know what the committee will look like, because we are committed to this, and you certainly have an idea of who will sit on the committee, what the composition of the people will be and what the composition of the organisations to which it will touch will be. If there are any rules of procedure and the like? I will definitely, if the rejection fails at first reading, suggest that this material be discussed by the agricultural committee as well. And I would very much like the Ministry of the Environment, or the Ministry of Industry and Trade to come up with what specific legislative measures and impacts on the sphere of business and management in this area will be the Paris Agreement in these areas, because I am convinced that this is not just an agreement that we will put in the drawer the next day. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u21	I thank Mr Bendl. As the 13th hour has passed, I am interrupting the House meeting, declaring a lunch break and the House meeting will continue at 14.30 hours by oral interpelations to the Prime Minister. Enjoy your meal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-19-ps2013-054-07-004-197.u22	Madam, honourable Members, Prime Minister, I am opening our afternoon negotiations. We'll deal with the point.
