ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u1	38. Mr Radek Vondráček's proposal and others to issue a law amending Law No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts (the Act on the Register of Contracts), as amended by Act No. 298/2016 Coll. First reading according to § 90 para. 2 Please note that it is proposed that we give our consent to the bill at first reading. We received the Government's position as House Press 1124/1. I prosit that Radek Vondráček present the proposal as an applicant. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm back with the contract register. The story has been going on since 2013. I'm not gonna judge. You can see for yourself on the board, on the one hand that we have 12.10 and we have voting points coming up, you can see that this point is followed by a bill returned to the Senate, which we also have to deal with, where we have a version of the MP, a version of the Senate. We can each have specific comments and disagree. What a group of Members and basically representatives of six MPs are presenting is a certain intersection, a certain compromise and a certain solution that has been adopted after three years of discussion. We have also had almost a whole year of practical operation without the threat of sanctions of absolute nullity of the contract, and this amendment reflects the discussions that took place during the press discussion following this, and this proposal reflects the needs of practice as we could get to know them. Perhaps after three years, we have found a solution that really has a wider consensus, which is the greatest plus of this proposal. Of course, if the debate on the previous proposal had not gone so far, I wanted to introduce you to the amendment in more detail. You, of course, have a press release, including a explanatory note. Well, I'll just be very brief. The aim of this amendment is to ensure the functioning of the Act on the Register of Contracts. These are adjustments concerning both legislative and interpretation deficiencies and certain partial adjustments in the scope of the published contracts. The proposal is only aimed at necessary and widely accepted changes to the law, only to the extent that there is no breach of the fundamental principles of the law. The proposal honours the key principle of the law that all entities dealing with public funds publish contracts in the register of contracts. In view of this, all adjustments contained in the proposal do not lead to the exemption of compulsory entities from the Act on the Register of Contracts, but only to the modification of the publication regime for certain types of contracts or the exemption of certain types of contracts for which adverse impacts have been identified in terms of safety, health or the protection of sensitive information. On the individual points of the amendment I may have provided explanations to colleagues who would like to discuss, and I will not overextend the introduction here. I would just like to point out at the end that this point really needs to be discussed and accepted, because it is indeed a practice that awaits it and is certainly a better solution, both the previous parliamentary version and the Senate version. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u3	I, too, thank you and please take the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jan Farský. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the House Press 1124 precedes the House Press 699. They have a lot in common. Not only were they under the same name, but, of course, everyone who is interested in the subject knows that the House press 1124 was called upon by the House press 699. That is why the Members of the majority of the clubs of this Chamber of Deputies met and tabled a proposal on 18 May. The proposal is submitted in such a way that it is approved under Paragraph 90 of our Second Rules of Procedure and the Government which discussed it at its meeting the day after its submission, i.e. On 19 May 2017, she gave her consent to its wording, as submitted. So today he is included in our meeting. The Constitutional Committee is designed as a guarantee, but today, if the veto is not raised, we will vote directly on this proposal. It's an intelligence report for the procedure. As far as the content is concerned, this was partly said by the petitioner. That's right, you can't avoid printing 699. If I were to call it that, I'm sure you remember the February vote when the press left the House for the Senate, from which some of those who voted for him, were surprised how he implemented wide exceptions to the Treaty Register. An effort to correct the Senate was followed, but also the vote itself, as well as the procedure under way, to make a fundamental adjustment to this register of contracts and hide some 150 billion and exempt some entities, so unfortunately it was not possible to correct it in the Senate either. And that put us in a position that either there would be no change, but, as I understand it, the authors of the press 1124 say, that would not be an option that would be House-passable, or we would have to vote on the press 699, whether in the House or the Senate version. Both, I have to say here, Senate and House versions are far more extensive from the point of view of how many exceptions they put into the Treaty Register Act. This press 1124 is formulated in a way that says that not all entities are excluded from the Act on the Register of Contracts, but contracts are excluded in certain areas. Contracts which, in my opinion, would be covered by exceptions which have been included in the Act on the Register of Contracts since our approval in 2015, could certainly cause some debate in interpretation and, in a large part, this press makes this clear. I still think that this amendment is pointless from the point of view of adapting the register of contracts. But why would I not be a fan of the veto is that the backup print is here 699, both of its versions are in a much worse version than the one that can now pass through here. This version is not destructive to the contract register. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u5	I also thank you and open a general debate in which I register two applications. Mr Plíšek will be the first to speak and Mr Klán will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u6	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, thank you for the floor. I will just briefly clarify the position of the TOP 09 MEP, and why we did not join this urgent amendment. Because we don't think that just before the sharp start of the registry, which will happen now on Saturday 1. 7. It is appropriate to intervene in this law. We've been through a lot of time here in this parliamentary term over the contract register. Finally, after a long discussion, a version was approved, and we simply disagree with the exceptions, and no matter how many there are, but any exception can be a moral hazard to those who are obliged, and now even from Saturday under sanctions, they will have to publish the contracts. And also because the parliamentary amendment brings in some exceptions that have not been discussed in the past, for example, there is an exception for the administration of state tangible reserves, the definition of contracts of an industrial or commercial nature at all is quite broad and it is not quite clear what extent of the contracts will be there. So, among other things, for these reasons, we will not support this amendment, and we would rather that, after the sharp operation, the register should be evaluated, but of course I leave this to the Chamber of Deputies. And thank you for letting me introduce you to the opinion of the TOP 09 MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u7	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As Minister of Finance, I am obliged to inform you of the material that deals with the impact of the Act on the Register of Contracts in any version of the liquidity regulation of the general accounts of the Treasury. I am very sorry that I only present this post today. I was informed of it yesterday, I am the Minister of Finance for a month, but that does not excuse me, and I am very sorry that this serious contribution, because it is a very important figure, which is in the administration of the Treasury, I am speaking to you today. The Ministry of Finance, as well as the bodies appointed in the Act, is obliged to publish all contracts concluded in connection with the management of the liquidity of the Treasury's aggregate accounts, which may lead to a major disruption in the possibility of technical implementation of these transactions on behalf of the Czech Republic on the financial market. In order to achieve the best possible price, it is necessary to conclude the transaction in a matter of minutes, and in the case of koruna operations, settlement takes place within a few hours. Businesses concluded in the framework of the management of the koruna liquidity of the Treasury are immediately effective, but the Act on the Register of Contracts provides that the contract becomes effective only on the date of its publication. Certain transactions in the financial market are concluded only in the afternoon and are valid and effective on the same day, so it is not possible to guarantee the publication of the relevant contractual documentation in the contract register due to time constraints. I would just like to point out that last year the revenues from deposit transactions concluded today, so-called CZK 9 billion, amounted to CZK 750 million. The same applies to the liquidity management of the Treasury. Thanks to the fact that the funds in that account have been treated as being constantly invested since 2013, they have made a contribution of CZK 736 million. If, because of the inability to implement this, the legal obligation of the register of contracts in the account is fulfilled, this is clearly an economical treatment of the state's property, because at present in foreign currencies interest is negative and in Czech currencies it is very small. Furthermore, as regards the possible issuance of government bonds in a form other than auctions, such as the syndicated issue used most frequently for issuing foreign currency bonds under foreign law, the need to publish contractual documentation between the Ministry of Finance and counterparties could discourage potential candidates for management or participation in such an operation, which could ultimately make financing through alternative channels more expensive, difficult or even completely impossible.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u9	Again, Minister, I apologize for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, to keep your voice down. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u10	Again, my apologies, fellow Members, for coming up with this information right now. I say that none of the versions of the contract register treats this, but as the Minister of Finance, I am obliged to draw your attention to any consequences that are really huge in terms of the adoption of the register of liquidity management contracts of the Treasury's aggregate accounts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u11	Thank you, too. Mr Vondráček has a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I'd like to respond to the Minister. Of course, I'm also sorry that the information didn't get to us sooner, it would probably be solvable. A similar problem was noted by pharmacies in larger hospitals, where there was actually a large turnaround of medicines, which is why this amendment contains solutions where medicines and medical aids are excluded. Contracts become effective immediately, so that's one way to do it. However, I believe that the answer to this problem may be the amended article § 8 para. In the case of a contract covered by the obligation to publish, the contract must be concluded in writing or by any other means enabling the contract to be published by means of a register of contracts. So some technical solution may be possible. I have to respond, my colleague here gestures to me. It is certainly not a cornerstone or a crucial thing enough to prevent us from accepting this amendment. Perhaps the issue is also solvable under the exception for commodity exchanges, regulated markets and similar purchasing methods. This means that the matter needs to be discussed first, but it should not prevent us from adopting this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u13	Thank you. I apologize - in the order as they are registered, with the de facto remark of the Minister of Finance Ivan Pilný. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've been alerted, I've said it, but maybe not quite clearly - the problem I indicated here, and again I'm sorry for the delay, it concerns all versions of the contract register. It's not a question of this version that we're accepting right now. It is a question of all versions of the register of contracts that are submitted. So this is not just about this version. Just to clarify, because I've been asked to explain. I said it, but I'm saying it again. This concerns all versions of the contract register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u15	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Petr Kořenek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u16	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I would just like to point out that I have encountered a problem that we have a register of contracts, but no one has put money into schools for people who are going to implement it. At our school, that means part-time, where we have to find money for wages to be able to comply with this law at all. Well, I don't know if we're supposed to approve this - pardon me - crap here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u17	Thank you. With priority rights, Mr Sklenák. [[The Member is speaking to Mr Kořenek in front of the benches.]] Mr. Sklenák, you're logged in with priority rights. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u18	Thank you. I'll be very brief. I'm just warning everyone who's still logged in that we have about 20 minutes to discuss this amendment and possibly approve it. If that doesn't happen, you know how yesterday's day went and today's day, it's possible she won't make it to this meeting again. So please let us follow the motto that action is important, not words, and proceed to the vote. I just want to respond very briefly to what Minister Pilný said. Basically, it's a negotiation of the register of contracts for all mementos, for those who meet here after the election, that this isn't really how laws are supposed to be made. That law has been with us for practically the entire term of office. It was one of the first parliamentary proposals that was tabled. Back then, a lot of people chased over who's fighting corruption more. The proposal is signed, Minister, among other things, by your President Andrej Babiš and the President of the Faltýnek parliamentary club, and everyone wanted to be signed and everyone just wanted to show how important the law is and how they are fighting it. Of course it was a government proposal. This is an absolutely fundamental standard that is almost unprecedented in the world. It was supposed to be a government proposal, it was supposed to be a commentary procedure, and not to overtake who's fighting corruption more. And that's why the law has been with us for the entire term, and that's why now - I wouldn't say last minute, but after almost 12 o'clock - we're saving what we can because it's causing a lot of trouble in that practice. So we have a decision here today to at least protect some of the entities that are moving in a competitive market, and basically this law is destroying them. We have the opportunity to at least correct this, and to make sense of the law, which we originally supported by the idea of the register of contracts.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u19	Thank you. Now, therefore, duly logged in to the debate. First of all, Mr Jan Klán and then Mr Zlatuška. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u20	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, or noon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President. Let me also say a few words about the register of contracts. Don't worry, I won't be too long, like half an hour or so, even though I might be, because I'm interested in this novel being adopted and approved. However, here I'm going to tell you one thing. In addition to the fact that the amendment solves partial problems in some way, let us say that neither version of the contract register contains non-profit organisations as recipients of public money. They're not there. It's just the rock of injury that they're not there. And I think it's a big mistake that non-profit organizations aren't part of the contract register that are pushing for transparency, like billboards, posters and stuff, so there's just missing. And I will simply say clearly that the register of treaties is an instrument of capitalist competition to weaken the position of the national state. That's right. Just private sector, respectively. Capitalist competition wants to see into the concluded contracts concluded by the state. Then the state is weakened. He's weakened, and that's what this principle is all about, that's what these non-governmental non-profit organizations are all about, weakening the state's position, the public sector. What happens after that? After that, there's only privatization. It's just an apple of contention for the contract register. As I said before, the KSČM MP will support this amendment, submitted by Mr Vondráček, in order to present it across the political spectrum, there has been a consensus. But then I can't be surprised if the Minister of Finance comes out here and says these things that should have been cleared up a long time ago. But you can see that there's always approval here, then we're all surprised. Some are under pressure from non-governmental non-profit organizations that are recipients of public money and make it a business. Let's get this straight -- another business. [[12.30 hours]] I'm saying the contract register doesn't save everything. Of course, it has certain anti-corruption potential, that's true, but it's not salvation. I say we're missing an ex ante check, at the beginning of the process. This is an ex post check, i.e. after the event is over. It's an ex post check. You can't save anything if you publish the contract. Save what? Nothing. The contract's closed and it's valid. There's nothing there to change. We just don't have ex ante checks, and we miss them. My colleagues are already pointing out that I should quit my speech. In conclusion, I will say that the KSČM MP will support this amendment because it regulates and solves at least the partial problems that arose by adopting the basic version of the contract register. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u21	Thank you, too. As the next Mr. Mr. Zlatuška. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u22	Mr President, I would like to point out that what has been said here that nothing will be fixed by the later publication is not true. I received an initiative freshly from Mr. Filip Smoljak as the holder of part of his father's copyright that, despite the publication of contracts with public media in the Czech Republic, he managed to find out that the contracts were being concluded fraudulently by an agency that had no right to do so. The moment we remove the publication, such possibilities will not be considered here. And it's obviously public money. So it's not true what he ended up here in front of me. I had a longer performance prepared to cut things short. I do not agree personally with any amendment to the Act on the Register of Contracts. I think what we approved last time in the Chamber of Deputies was quite wrong, including the way in which some questioned the vote and returned to it. There I think that the negotiations that took place here in questioning the vote had, in my opinion, all the signs of corruption. But on 22 February, I pointed out that the proposal for a change for universities - which I consider unnecessary because universities are sufficiently protected by existing legal standards on the protection of business secrets and the possibility of polluting part of it when publishing business secrets. So, on 22 February, I pointed out that part of the modified text was changed to order and for money, and I argued here that the order was made by the Rector of the University of Chemical Technology at PAN Solutions. After this performance, I ran out of a letter from doktor Nikodým's law firm, ran out of five. 4. in which I received threats for PAN Solutions by Ms. Jana Marca that I allegedly abused indemnity and that indemnity is not protected in this way. At the end of the letter... I wanted to read you the whole letter originally, but I wouldn't do it in the time-saving process, but if you're interested, I'd be happy to provide it. She says: My client is distant from the idea of turning to the court and seeking civil proceedings for the protection of personal rights to which the above statements have been affected. - Well, I consider such a thing in this formulation to be an outrageous threat to the Members. I would like to inform you that something similar may happen to you when you are here to defend the interests of the voters for whom you have been elected here. In response, I told Mr Nikodým that I would like to say that a lobbyist working in the public interest - because there is no change of law in the private interest - must endure a higher and more robust level of criticism, because in itself, he has become a person of public interest and that there has been a lack of understanding of the law and public interest on the part of your client. I'm writing this to a former constitutional judge, so he can hand it over to the relevant lobby office. The interesting thing I'm pointing out for is that I asked all the colleges how the contract was implemented, which they agreed with the lobby office at the time. I received an unsolicited text message from Mrs Marco, which reassured me how much each of these schools would pay for their finances. I was surprised to find, when asked to provide information under the Information Access Act, that none of the public universities which responded to me in the first phase had concluded a contract for performance. They all answered with the exception of one thing, and that was the University of Chemical Technology, which wrote to me that when I addressed a request for information to college, that I did it wrong and that I should have given it to some clerk. They only confessed when they asked for a revision here. This merely demonstrates that the exception that is for universities here and in this proposal is unfounded and that, on the contrary, the higher education school, or precisely the most lobbied university, behaves in a way that it is not willing to answer for how the funds are handled. That is why I think, with this part for public universities within the framework of the law, that it is a step backwards and that we should not change the law on the register of contracts even as it is presented here in this amendment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-003-038.u23	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is joining the general debate. I do not see any request, in which case I am ending the general debate. I ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants the final word. I don't see interest. We will now decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 1024 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll check you out first and ask you to sign up with your cards. Initiating the vote and asking who agrees with this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 49, 141 Members and Members registered, for proposal 125, against 4. The motion has been approved. The proposal has been approved, and I am therefore initiating a detailed debate and asking if anyone is applying for it. I see no interest, I conclude a detailed debate, and I ask the appellant and the rapporteur if you want the final word. It's not like that. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with Radek Vondráček's proposal and others for the Act amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts, as amended by Act No. 298/2016 Coll., pursuant to House Print 1024. [[Act on the Register of Contracts]] Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 50, 145 Members are registered, for proposal 128, against 13. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved, and that is the end of this point. I'm opening another point in today's meeting, and that's
