ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-004-060.u1	60. Government bill amending Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the Protection of Classified Information and on Security Eligibility, as amended /House print 1067/ - first reading pursuant to § 90 para. 2 We are at first reading, but the government proposes to proceed according to § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure Act, that is to say, it is proposed that we give our consent to the draft law in the first reading. Before I give the floor to Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka, I will ask you for peace of mind, assuming that the debates concerning another point will be moved to the foyer. I'm asking my colleagues to keep their voices down. Quiet in the Chamber, please! At the same time, I thank Mr Daniel Korte, who is the rapporteur for this press and has already taken the position at the rapporteur's table. I will now ask the Prime Minister, Mr Bohuslav Sobotka, to make a proposal. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-004-060.u2	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment is technical and does not significantly interfere with the rights and obligations of protecting classified information. In fact, it only elaborates on the possibility of using electronic document management tools. That is why the government also proposes that Parliament's Chamber of Deputies give its consent to the bill at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-004-060.u3	I thank the Prime Minister for his brief introduction and will now ask the rapporteur for Mr Daniel Korte's first reading to present his report. Mr. rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-004-060.u4	Thank you. Nice noon, ladies and gentlemen. We will deal with House press 1067, which amends Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the protection of classified information and on security competence, as amended. This law, in particular, regulates the handling of classified information in the Czech Republic's terms and, in the field of administrative security, still exclusively regulates their processing in analogue form. With regard to their processing in information systems dealing with classified information, administrative security shall not apply to classified information in the form of digital information. In view of the introduction of an electronic file service system for the majority of the national authorities, which will become part of the information systems dealing with classified information, this House's press proposes to apply some of the administrative security provisions directly mentioned in the proposal to the handling of classified information in electronic form. In essence, this proposal closes the gap created in 2012 by the amendment to archival law No. 499/2004 Coll. Years 2012, 2017 - five years no one noticed this gap, but so be it. After all, what's five years against eternity, right? [[12.10 hours]] The proposed legislation is the first step in creating conditions for the comprehensive protection of classified documents not only in analogue form but also in digital form. I, as rapporteur, therefore recommend that this proposal be approved and approved by the applicant at first reading under the scheme § 90 para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-004-060.u5	I thank the rapporteur, Daniel Korte, and I am opening a general debate to which the rapporteur is reporting in a normal application. Before I give him my word, I note that no document with signatures of 50 Members has been delivered, so that we do not proceed under Section 90, nor was the position of two members of parliament. So, for now, we're going to proceed according to Section 90, paragraph. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Please, Member, you have the floor now in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-004-060.u6	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, in the name of the rapporteur of this press, I read it for the first time, read it for the second time, read it for the seventh time, and fell into deep sorrow, sorrow, and despair. That is why I have to make a personal statement: firstly, I did not want to go into politics. Two. It's Kalousek's fault that I'm here. Why the crap, the grief and the desperation. The text, as the plaintiff said, is simple. Yes, it's one paragraph of the expanse of one eloquent continuum and one sentence, but it's obvious that the text was written by either a machine or an alien. Please assess yourself: For the processing and transmission of classified information processed in an electronic file service system which is part of an information system that provides classified information and complies with the requirements laid down by the national standard for electronic file service systems, with the exception of those requirements whose use precludes compliance with the conditions for the certification of the information system for the handling of classified information or the use of which excludes the specific nature of the originator's competence, paragraph 1, Section 21 (2) shall apply. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 5, with the exception of the first part of the sentence after the semicolon, § 21 para. Section 6 as regards translation, Article 21 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 8 to 10 and Article 22 mutatis mutandis. In other cases, the provisions of this Title on the processing and transmission of classified information in information systems and cryptographic means shall not apply. I suppose everyone knows what you're going to vote on. In desperation of the highest I turned with a request for consultation on our parliamentary legislation here, as well as the Minister of the Interior, who is not a translator, author of this amendment, and I was assured that this text really should meet the declared objective, i.e. allow the insertion of classified information into the electronic file service system. Yes, it's been confirmed to me that it's horrible written, but that's how they write legislation. So I think the laws are meant to be written for people to understand them, but this is some argot, please. If you don't know what an argot is, it's the language of a particular group, it's mostly a criminal environment whose aim is to cover up the content of that language and hide it from the outsiders. In this context, I will allow you to read a few words: It is therefore for the benefit of the laws to be as little as possible, further to make them as fair and as beneficial as possible to the general good as possible, and in addition to as many people as possible known. That is why, in the old days, they publicly appeared on tables and white tablets so that everyone could see them before their eyes. It is shameful that some use laws as a network, that they act in such a way as to involve as many people as possible, while neglecting the state, but as if they are lurking for prey. And then the laws must be written in clear and as unintelligible words as possible, so that the most profitable kind of people called counsellors and lawyers are not too much needed. Indeed, this profession was once characterised by the foremost men, and it brought a great deal of dignity and as little profit as possible. But now this profession has corrupted the profits that will infect everything. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the 500-year-old words of Erasm Rotterdamský, which he wrote in his most important political work on the education of the Christian ruler. But man is inexhaustible and we see that it is in vain, it is in vain, it is in vain. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-07-ps2013-057-10-004-060.u7	Thank you for speaking with Mr Daniel Korte. I have no further written application to the debate, I see no one either from the point of view, I conclude the general debate. The objection has not been lodged until now, so we will decide pursuant to § 90 para. 5 on the continuation of the discussion of this proposal. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies agrees to continue negotiations on the Houses of the Press 1067 so that it can be agreed with at first reading.' I'll check you out first, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. And once the numbers are settled, we will decide in the next vote. I must do so because I have asked noisy colleagues and colleagues to have debates on a subject other than the government's proposal in the foyer. I think that all those who are interested in voting are already present and we will decide in the vote order number 273 that we will continue in accordance with § 90 para. 2. I've started the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 273 of the 133 Members present for 94, against 8. The motion was accepted. The resolution has been approved, so we can continue. I am opening a detailed debate. Please note that in a detailed debate pursuant to § 90 para. 6 amendments or other proposals cannot be tabled, only the amendment of the date of effectiveness of the proposal can be proposed and, where appropriate, legislative technical, grammatical or written errors can be corrected. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? It's not like that. I'm ending the debate in detail. I ask the Prime Minister or the rapporteur if they are interested in the final word. Prime Minister? You don't. Mr. Rapporteur? You don't. Okay. Then we can continue. We will proceed to the vote on the whole bill. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the Government's bill amending Act No. 412/2005 Coll., on the Protection of Classified Information and Security Eligibility, as amended, pursuant to House Press 1067.' I've started voting number 274 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the voting order 274 of the 137 present for 126, against no one. The motion has been approved. I am of the opinion that the bill has been approved. Thank you to the Prime Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and finish with item 60. Let's continue with point number
