ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u1	13. Proposal for the establishment of a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the National Cyber and Information Security Office and the manner in which it is established or elected According to Article 24a of Law No. 181/2014 Coll., on Cyber Security and on the Amendment of Related Acts, i.e. Act on Cyber Security, as amended by Act No. 205/2017 Coll., establishes the Chamber of Deputies a special audit body for the control of the activities of the Financial Analytical Office consisting of seven Members. [[The President is advised that he was wrong.]] I'm sorry, there's a glitch in the materials. I'll reload. We're still at point 13. According to Article 24a of Law No. 181/2014 Coll., on Cyber Security and on the Amendment of Related Acts, Act on Cyber Security, as amended by Act No. 205/2017 Coll., establishes the Chamber of Deputies special control body for the control of the activities of the National Authority for Cyber and Information Security. It consists of seven Members. Pursuant to Article 47 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this supervisory body be appointed as a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies. In accordance with Article 115 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, In addition, I propose that this Commission be established in accordance with the principle of proportional representation. During the seventh parliamentary term, the Commission was not appointed because it was not established until during the parliamentary term. I therefore submit this motion for a resolution: First, the Chamber of Deputies establishes a permanent commission of the Chamber of Deputies for the control of the activities of the National Cyber and Information Security Office, consisting of seven Members; Second, it provides that the Commission is to establish itself on the basis of the principle of proportional representation. I am opening up a general debate on this issue. I don't have any written applications. I have no applications from the auditorium, so I am ending the general debate and opening up a detailed debate. Anyone reporting for a detailed debate? Minister Chvojka.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u2	Thank you. For the last time, I propose that the Commission be set up again in a majority manner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u3	Thank you for the suggestion. I'm asking if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. This is not the case, so I am ending the detailed debate and we will be voting on the proposals. First of all, the counter-proposal, that is, for the commission to be set up in a majority manner. I am initiating vote number 47 on this issue. Who's in? Who's against it? For there were 62 Members, against 99. The motion was denied. We will therefore vote on the original proposal, namely that the Commission be set up according to the principle of proportional representation. In this matter, vote number 48. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? For it was 104 Members, against 57. The Commission has therefore been established and will be established in accordance with the principles of proportional representation. I'm ending point 13 and now the Vice-President has claimed priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u4	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to see what happened even though it is late in the evening. We voted on how to set up committees that control this country's security system. I am talking about those commissions that are laid down by law to number seven in particular, and I was expecting that the forming government here would be willing to allow democratic control for opposition parties. I understand that if the law says seven, it has to be seven, and it can't be nine, but even on the number seven, it's possible to find the matrix where as many controllers can fit. I understand and understand the YES movement, why it wants proportional representation - because the best control is friendly control. I understand, and I want to thank the Democratic bloc, because they don't care more or less, they have two in both of those formats, and yet they supported greater representation of the opposition. Who I don't understand is KSČM. I do not understand how the party declaring itself to be an opposition is voluntarily giving up control over these key bodies. That, colleagues, you will have to explain to your constituents, and believe me, we will ask that question. Anyway, the conclusion of this evening is that the opposition parties, which may not have succeeded as they imagined, cannot be represented in these committees. Believe me, social democracy doesn't matter. The KSČM is clearly satisfied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u5	Thank you. Vice-President Luzar reporting with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u6	Thank you for the floor. As much as I appreciate my fellow speaker, I think the KSČM is aware of what it does, how it votes. KSČM was also the one who said it was unfair, that it was only seven of the law and that we would demand an increase in this number so that everyone would be represented. When it comes to that, and that, as it has been said here, has been promised, and the government, the current government, the government, not yet in demise, if it hasn't passed it by now, I don't know, but I suppose this government will do so. That's what she promised, that's what she said. And I wonder how my colleague Hamáček, by your means, Mr President, here in February, in March, when this bill passes, will say, if the number of members rises to ten, a proportional representation will be preserved, what he will say to the voters, but with his, please, not ours, that the communists will be there and have that representation. We just honor what we've been saying over the long term, proportional representation. Yes, because of the electoral outcome, we admit that, but we are also taking all legal steps to change that. And that's the right move. We're not playing a theater here, asking for an immediate solution. We'll just wait for him for a second. Maybe it'll be a month, maybe two months, but we'll see it because that's the promise we made here. And to say that there are representatives sitting here who already and priori by being elected, here they want to sort of like not to control or imply that if there is no particular opposition, so that the organ becomes like horny to some evil or something just because there's no one there right now, it's also quite serious insinuance to how to proceed. We, as KSČM, just say and honor the proportional representation. It was quite evident that it would be negotiated and the government would decide to change the law, which determines strictly seven, and we are simply counting on it. And if the government does not, as has been said here, temporarily or similarly, do not do so, then, of course, we will call on the government to be held accountable to the supervisory authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u7	Thank you. This is Vice-President Hamáček with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u8	I do not want to prolong this, but I think I have a slightly different perception of opposition policy, however we have now been government MPs. As an opposition MP, I believe that it is necessary to set up and perform this check from the nearest possible moment. That means the argument "I want to control absolutely hard, but when the time comes," I don't really understand. I think that once we set up those control bodies, those services work and they need parliamentary control, and I would expect the opposition legislature to want him to know what's going on there so he can control it, not say, "Well, maybe it will turn out." Ad a). Ad (b). Let's just put it this way. We were discussing the possibility of a bill at the Chamber of Deputies this morning to modify it. I am, because I was assigned to the meeting, informed the Prime Minister, and the Prime Minister said yes, the government is ready to come up with an amendment very quickly, provided that the President of the Chamber of Deputies sends a letter to the Prime Minister asking him to start dealing with it. I gave this information to the President, and I was told that no such letter had left until 1857 hours, as far as I know. And the government acts tomorrow and then maybe December 6th. Then it will be another government, and it may adopt a bill, but it will certainly not be tomorrow, and it will not be within the horizon of a week or two. So I just want to point out that no concrete promise that this government will do anything did not fall without the initiative from the President of the Chamber of Deputies. But we're drowning in engineering. I repeat again what I said in the beginning. I do not understand what the motivation of the opposition Member is to wait with control until the atmosphere is better. For social democracy, I say that we were supposed to control the ambition of the security forces right now. If anyone else wants to wait until December, January, February or June, it's his right, but then we'll ask questions.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u9	I thank the Vice-President and Mr Stanjura has applied.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u10	It's 7:00 p.m., a little bit of math for fellow communists who honor the relative system. They have 7 per cent, two committee chairmen. To be proportional, we would have to have 29 committees to mathematically base it on communists in a proportional system, two committee chairmen. So they honor it, and if they get an extra one, they honor it, too, and they take what they have. The only ones who go off when we talk about the proportional system in committee chairmen are the communists. Then let us not be surprised that they are voting for what is not really beneficial for them. They already got paid. They have two Committee Chairs with fifteen Members. That is one chairman of the committee for seven and a half Members. If we were to hold this relative principle, we know that they only have one. When they call it that, it's easy to get paid and then say, "I support that principle elsewhere," because they'll have more functions than members than Members. [[19.00 hours]] And only a historic paradox - and it goes to the winner of this election. I looked at the results of all the elections in the independent Czech Republic and what was the arrangement of the Chamber of Deputies, whether the ODS ruled or was in opposition. And it is true that very often we did not give the Communists space according to the proportional system. We're applying, we're not ashamed of it. But the result is simple. This year, the communists have had the most serious outcome, and they will be given the most senior function. That's kind of an indirect point. Well, maybe the next time they don't get five percent, they won't. This time it's true. The worse the result, the more positions in the Chamber of Deputies. And they call it proportional representation, and they honor it. But I understand that they're taking whatever the winner throws them. So please do not lecture us, through Mr President, about how you honor a proportional system. Or if you honor him, give up the leadership of one of those two committees, because it belongs according to the proportional system of our block.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u11	Thank you. I just got word from Vice-President Luzar first. [[Vice-President Philip is on his way to the speaker's desk.]] I don't know if Vice-President Filip wants to get ahead of himself?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u12	I'll take the liberty of responding, of course. Because what was said here is some sort of complaint. I see. But the whole time we've been working here since the election is how this House is supposed to start working. And now that we're moving slowly and the House's tasks are being fulfilled, we're in a state of compensation, my colleague, when the club leadership negotiations are going on about how to balance the operation. These are the compensations that are underway and that we are debating. And I think we're going to have a long debate in the composition of the authorities that are ahead of us. So I think that none of the sides will be left alone in this view, as we often did in the past, when we were completely pushed aside and when the winner took everything. That's what we're counting on, and I'm sure those compensations will happen within the composition. About the security committees. It was awfully nice what was said here by social democracy that they, like the opposition, wanted to control. But they forget there's only seven members. So they'd like to control, but the Communists wouldn't. Because they couldn't be there because the law talks about seven. So they only talk about wanting to be in these inspection bodies. And that's what I was aiming for. That if it was seven and there was that representation, as they suggested, we'd have to make a deal. Who's gonna be where it's gonna be, how it's gonna be, and maybe it's gonna be just like the vote that came out here. I think it's important for us to honor the proportional representation that we've been promoting here for years, and I know, and the government minister said today that the law will just be prepared in the run, that it's already written and that it will be. [[Nesroz.]] And I'll take his word for it. And who else to believe but the minister of this government? That he wasn't making a calendar out of his mouth, as it was almost implied here, but that it would really be. And I trust him, and I honor his word. If he doesn't, of course we'll take care of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u13	Thank you. Now Vice-President Filip.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Members of the government, ma'am and gentlemen, I could almost cry. I'd really cry if I didn't know what the ODS was doing here. Please, stop it. Stop it. Of course, we all have the right to an opinion. I have a certain opinion on the establishment of these audit bodies, and I have also expressed it by vote. And don't be mad at me, you were the ones who had never admitted the principle of proportional representation by 2002! You guys have always advocated the winner's principle. When it changed in 2002, it only went gradually. Every time you could - and if you want, I'll count it for you, for example, in the number of members of the College of the Supreme Audit Office, how many people you have there. And they're there until they're 65. So please stop. And you were a government party from 2006 to 2013. Yet you put them there, into the Supreme Audit Office! That's one reality. The second reality is that when you're crying like this, of course, you could have acted differently. That was your business. We've been there. I mean, what could you have ruined against the KSČM, you've also collapsed! And it's not just a committee cast. These are other things. So please, yes, blame us. It's okay. If you don't like it, blame us out loud. I'm the one who doesn't mind. That's everyone's right to his opinion. I'm just saying, I believe that the agreement from this morning should have been fulfilled, that we should have agreed on this, and that it could have continued to set up those committees in some way. I understand that. I understand that. And where there are seven, we should have made it clear that yes, this is temporary, it's set up like that and all that. And he had a clear view of the microphone here that it was until then and until then and it was set up in this way and at a certain time when the law was passed. And we are prepared to vote on the law pursuant to § 90 para. Where the number of members of the control body changes, the number of members shall be changed. And we can also fill it differently. It's the will of the House. But don't be mad at me. You, who are not willing to sit with us at one table, are constantly saying how we act. All right, well, I want to know - we're going to stand next to each other in the meetings of the MPs from STAN to the ANO movement and we're going to see who's being fair and who's not being fair. From you, therefore, President Stanjur, through the President, we have always received the least fair hearing. Because you'd be offended if you asked us to do something and sat down with us at the same table, saying there's a particular matter to be arranged. The last time this fair hearing was conducted, forgive me, on the pension committee that was here before 2009. That was the last time it was fair hearing from the ODS. I didn't know until then. I was surprised. But the truth is that this commission, also based on the decision of the then president of the parliamentary club - later I think you voted him out, or what you did with him - Vlastimil Tlustý - you collapsed the result of the commission. Because you had a different interest. Well, I'm saying it out loud here. If you're saying you have to say it out loud here, as the vote went on, I'm saying out loud how it was here. And don't be mad at me. You are the symbol of corruption! You said it yourself at your congress. So please don't lecture! Don't lecture the other MPs here. I respect that everyone has the right to an opinion. And I'm not judging or saying, "How is it possible that anyone else has an opinion?" I heard on Sunday's TV show on public television catastrophic words about the fact that a Democrat is only the one who agrees with someone else's opinion, who thinks it's right. I think that the Democrat is the one - and I repeat the words I said today at the press conference - who is able to say that he doesn't agree with your opinion, but he will do everything to make sure you can say it again. And that's what I'm holding on to! So don't be mad at me, but keep the lessons of how the Communist Party should behave for your members and let us as sovereign political parties decide by ourselves!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-014-013.u15	Well, I thank the Vice-President. Before we move on, I have two note cards. My colleague, Mr Lukáš Bartoň, apologizes to me for family reasons and Mrs Radka Maxová, for personal reasons. They won't be present after 7:00. Now I'll see if anyone else reports off the grid. And if that's not the case, I'd take five minutes to meet with the club presidents right now because we're running out of time. [[The Vice-Presidents are discussing outside the microphone.]] I hear we're moving on. In that case, I am opening a proposal to determine the number of Members. So if no one objects to the fact that we're moving on, I'll just ask just in case. [[Members discuss outside the microphone.]] Okay, I'm opening point number.
