ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u1	92. Government bill on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended (Law on the Protection of the Monument Fund) /German press 666/ - third reading I ask that the Minister of Culture Daniel Herman and the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Roman Procházka, take the position at the rapporteur's table. The motion for rejection and amendments are set out in the Houses of Press 666/3, which was delivered on 18 May 2017. The resolution of the guarantee committee was delivered as House prints 666/4 and 666/5. Now I ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking before the debate is opened? [[Minister Herman: Yes.]] Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u2	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly state the Government's proposal for a law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund. The draft law on the Monument Fund has come a long way, which has clearly shown how a society-wide standard is involved. After really broad preparation with the involvement of many key institutions and personalities in the field of conservation care, the basic principles of this legislation were first formulated and subsequently approved by the current government by its paragrafo version. The need for legislation leading to the preservation of our extremely large and valuable cultural heritage should not be viewed primarily from ideological positions. I regret that in the claims of some lobbyists, in media shortcuts, and even in comments whether self-appointed or real experts, unfortunately, statements that are misleading or false are still repeated. For the sake of briefness of my speech, I will mention only three examples that illustrate these facts. It is repeated that there is a united front of the professional public against the law. But reality is different. For the first time since 1989, the bill has been supported by a number of important entities active in the wide field of conservation care. On the contrary, some entities, which are argued as opponents, are at least illegible by the number of members and the real share in the current professional range of conservation of monuments, even if their names can evoke something else. The second similarly misleading claim is that the bill resigns to protect monument values, either in solitaires or in historical settlements. These critics seem to see the perfect protection of historical values in tons of paper, expressing themselves to completely marginal and unnecessary things without real influence on the preservation of the values of our cultural monuments and historical sites. On the contrary, I am deeply convinced that the proposed law is a way of predicting conservation, objectivity and expertise. It is also a way to eliminate unnecessary administrative burdens for owners and for the state. Finally, I find it completely absurd to claim that perhaps the purpose of the proposed law should be to reduce the number of employees of the National Monument Institute's territorial professional workplaces, as some of these opponents or lobbyists try to push. In the course of the discussion of the draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund here in the Chamber of Deputies, quite a number of amendments were loaded. However, only some of them may be recommended for approval. In this context, I would like to stress that the Ministry of Culture has consistently held a number of negotiations in the House of Deputies, in which some amendments have taken place despite the initial negative opinion on their acceptance and support by the petitioner. However, the number of amendments is intrinsically contradictory, they create a contradiction between each other and are not acceptable for factual reasons. Finally, I would like to say that in the proposed Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund, a number of principles are crucial to the creation of a new, meaningful standard. However, relatively partial changes are discussed here, which in the event of adoption may not be a major complication for the implementation of the law, but on the other hand can be seen as a wasted opportunity to improve the current state. The voting procedure will be difficult, but I firmly believe that it will be successfully passed and approved by the standard submitted. I propose that the Chamber of Deputies approve the bill on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. I am opening a debate to which I am registering several applications. First, Mr Herbert Pavera, Mr Adámek and others will be prepared. Please take your word for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, dear members of the Government, dear colleagues, colleagues, allow me to speak to this law for an explanation of my amendment, which, unfortunately, has not been adopted by the Guarantee Committee or the Ministry of Culture. But I think it's worth paying attention to him because he could bring great relief to all future builders. [[11.20 hours]] As you probably know, according to the Monument Act, any person who receives a building permit before he starts building must inform the Archaeological Institute that he will do excavation work. On the basis of this announcement, someone from the Archaeological Institute will come in and check the excavation work, and in the case - and now I say God forbid - they'll find something there, so maybe they'll stop the whole building for six months. I said it sadly, God forbid, but I understand that knowing the past is very important, and that is why I am in favour of doing such things, of course. But often, even because the builder has to pay for it, sometimes it happens that he deliberately finds some of the things that he finds himself, he prefers to bury and not announce that he's found something. Which I think is an incentive for the Ministry of Culture to really deal with. And I have come up with an amendment that could eliminate this damage to the builders. Construction workers are those who invest, and they are often mostly municipalities and cities that sometimes pay tens of thousands, and they often pay hundreds of thousands of crowns for the fact that there is an archaeological survey on the investor's land. I don't think it's right. When I was trying to figure out from the Ministry of Culture how much the cost of these archaeological works is roughly, it amounts to some CZK 350 million a year, which is probably the part that the Archaeological Institute or the Ministry of Culture actually makes compulsory for some buildings that are less than 150 square meters. So already in the old law, the builder of the family house didn't have to pay for the archaeological survey, went to the Ministry of Culture or the state. I think it's also wrong for the Department of Transport to build a freeway to pay for research to another state organization, which I think is really not okay. The minister here said that by adopting the law, not adopting the law would be a waste of opportunity. And I say, by not accepting my amendment, the opportunity to help builders who are certainly waiting for it would be missed, and they believe that the injustice that has been given in that law will really be eliminated. The fact that it is said that it is ambiguously said that the Archaeological Institute, the Monument Institute, or the archaeological person conducting the rescue archaeological research is paying for the costs of rescue archaeological research, so there I think it is easy to explain. The Archeological Institute of the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic belongs to the Academy of Sciences of the Czech Republic and it has its chapter in the budget of the Czech Republic. When funds are added to this chapter, of course, all archaeological surveys can be covered from that chapter. And it's a huge chance to help those builders. The amendment will be voted under the letter H, otherwise it is in the system under number 5762. And if it's just a little helpful to future builders to help them, if they've already had limited construction for a few months, I believe that law... or... My amendment is based on personal experience as mayor of the village, where we performed a number of constructions in our village for 19 years, I often met archaeologists in various research work and of course I have always tried to solve it in some way, we have never covered up any finding and so on. But they're threatening here, and I know stories of people who don't really report findings just because they don't have to pay for archaeological research. And this would, of course, be removed. [[This problem]] Probably not, because there will still be people who will, of course, be afraid not to delay their construction. In particular, subsidy providers should take into account that if there is a long archaeological survey, the construction time, completion of the construction must also be delayed. So I believe that the subsidy providers will also think about that in the future. I believe, my dear colleagues, that you will support my amendment and help future builders to eliminate the injustice that is in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u5	Thank you. I note Mr Junek's factual remark. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u6	Thank you, Mr President. I have to respond to a colleague who's talking about some kind of injustice. I'd just like to clarify a little bit what was said here. It's not true what you're saying today, when the contractor, the investor wants to build...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u7	By means of me, please address them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u8	Sorry, Mr President. When he wants to build, he has to announce it, and already part of the building permit is the condition that archaeological research is to be conducted there or not, it is based on some technical analysis and documentation. And that means the builder's already counting on it. He knows the archaeology will be there. He knows it's gonna be some kind of delay, and it's included in the construction. It's not like the archaeologist's gonna come and stop him from building it. Yes, such cases can happen when it was counted that there would be some small archaeological discovery, and it's bigger there. But it's not as common as you say. And to the injustice of having to pay for these researches, Earth is our legacy in common, all of us, and we want it to be preserved there. It's not like us - we don't want the inheritance to go out, let it lie there for the next 100, 200 years, when there are other, better methods, we'll explore it properly. And the fact that they pay for the research is the same thing as when an investor pays for the removal from the farm fund. We could say it's the same injustice. We're trying to protect the arable land, and we're just as trying to protect the archaeological heritage, and when it needs to be picked up, let's say some partial damage, the investor has to pay for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u9	Thank you, too. Another point of fact is made by Mr Pavera. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u10	I'm just gonna briefly respond to my colleague Junek performance. Of course it's in the building announcement and of course it's divided into several zones, so where there's more probability, of course it's included in a certain zone of 1, 2, 3 etc. So this guy, the builder, of course he knows. But I see no reason why he should pay hundreds of thousands of crowns for research, when, of course, all the things found in that country are the property of the state. Because that's the justice to be said at last.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u11	Thank you. I will read an apology: today, within 13 hours of work, Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes. And now the duly registered Member, Mr Adámek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u12	Hello, Mr Vice-President, Dear Government, Colleagues, Colleagues. I will not, as the Minister rightly said, look at this law from the point of view of some political, lobbyist point of view, nor will I defend my 18 amendments, which I have drawn up, perhaps, as it is said, with a minority, the parts of the objections that are against the law, here I will not calculate who supports and does not support all of this. I'll just read you, I'll allow you to read the opinion of one, I've got more, but only one, I don't want to delay for a long time, a law firm, which I'm sure we can't suspect of any lobbyist and... So the minister is laughing, that's okay. I also laughed at your press conference yesterday. However, let me read only part of this opinion. In the event of its approval, its adoption, its replacement is currently valid and effective Act 20/1987 Coll., on State Monument Care, hereinafter referred to as the Act on Monument Care, and related implementing regulations. According to the explanatory memorandum to the conservation law, the main reason for the adoption of the new law governing the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund is the fact that the conservation law came into effect on 1. 1. 1988, i.e. at a time when conditions were not envisaged which would occur two years later in connection with the transition period to the market economy and the actual re-establishing of the private ownership institute. It is therefore supposed to be legislation despite numerous amendments that are outdone in many ways. The memorial law contains 152 paragraphs, which is a relatively significant increase against the current 47 paragraphs of the Act on Monument Care. It could therefore be assumed that the conservation law is making significant conceptual changes in this area of legislation, which fundamentally correct the supposedly obsolete and outdated conservation law. The opposite, however, is true. [[11.30 hours]] In general. The criticism of the bill of monuments has emerged from a number of places since the beginning of its presentation in the Chamber of Deputies, especially from professional circles that come into contact with the issue today and daily. One example for all can be the criticism of the Czech Chamber of Architects mentioned in their comments on the website of the Chamber. The criticism of the Czech Chamber of Architects, which I personally fully identify with, points out in particular that the design of the conservation law is a very comprehensive and inconspicuous standard focusing on a detailed description of the partial activities and a comprehensive regulation of certain professions rather than defining values and a rational and effective way of protecting them. Despite the claims about the need for the adoption of the law due to outdatedness, the law on conservation care, the design of the conservation law only addresses the issue of maintenance and conservation of conservation protected buildings and completely ignores the fact that in the 21st century the emphasis must also be on the actual real use of buildings and their functionality. The Czech Chamber of Architects also mentions the lack of coordination and connection of the conservation law with other laws. Another criticism, which is heard from various professional sites and which can be clearly agreed with, is essentially based on the above. Although the proponents of the design of the conservation law are suffocating, in quotation marks, about the necessary need to abolish the Communist law on conservation care, the design of the conservation law essentially does not bring any systemic changes. The increase in the number of more than one hundred paragraphs is due, on the one hand, to a large number of cosmetic changes and, on the other hand, to the excessive regulation of professional restorers, survey processors, archaeologists, but while maintaining the original concept of the law. In particular, the increase in bureaucracy, the difficult feasibility and enforcement of the conservation law in practice and the vagueness of certain wordings leading to the ambiguous nature of the legislation and the purpose of its interpretation are also challenged by the expert public. One particular thing. One of the most criticized areas of the present Act on Monument Care is so called. two-track sightseeing. Unfortunately, instead of eliminating this undesirable state of affairs, the conservation law not only leaves the same concept, but makes the situation even worse by its interventions to some extent. The division of competences between the body of monument care and the National Monument Institute is considered to be a dual-trackness of state conservation care. Thus, a condition where the approval of buildings, e.g. works on buildings in the landmark area, the body of conservation care, municipal officials, and possibly. regional authorities, with experts from the National Heritage Institute providing only expert observations, but which are not binding on the body in any way. By officials, the expression of the expert organisation may not be respected at all, and the possibility of defending the National Heritage Institute does not exist here. This double-trackness has long been considered to be completely redundant, for the public to be inconspicuous and disproportionately burdensome to taxpayers. Not only does the conservation law fully maintain this concept, but the proposed legislation still weakens the position of the National Heritage Institute. The professional written statement of the National Monument Institute will no longer be required to prevent any assessment by the conservation authorities, but only by those listed by law. To others, the National Heritage Institute will have the right to express itself at its discretion. The memorial law therefore favours to an even greater extent the role of officials of the conservation authorities, but does not impose any requirements in terms of professional qualifications, practice in the field or education, even in terms of expertise regarding the history of buildings and their importance and role within the cultural heritage of the Czech Republic, as well as in terms of education in the field of technical maintenance and renovation of historical buildings and buildings. It can be assumed that this procedure can also lead to certain randomness and unpredictability in the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund. In this respect, therefore, the conservation law is failing, because it does not address this highly criticized area in any way, or vice versa. Allow me to make a final summary: It can be noted that the design of the conservation law is a comprehensive legislation, but it does not significantly alter the existing concept of conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund. Despite the declaration of the petitioners, there is no correction of the supposedly obsolete and dysfunctional law on conservation care. The proposed regulation does not improve the regulation of conservation care or strengthen or improve the protection of cultural heritage, nor does it strengthen the professional role of conservation authorities. On the contrary, it introduces inconspicuous protection tools, allows for the extension of relevant procedures that do not contribute to the protection of monuments and historical buildings, and extends the fragmentation of competences in the area of the protection of cultural and historical heritage. The big wave of criticism that has appeared since its submission, as well as the relatively large number of proposals submitted, etc., etc., is also testifying about imperfection and dysfunction - the lawyers say - the conservation law. I don't want to and I won't... For a very short time I mentioned the position of the Czech Chamber of Architects. I'm not gonna read it to you here. It is possible to find it on their website. However, allow me to conclude with one short excursion to the existing law, and that is the question of changing the section on expropriation. I would like to read, yes, an absurd, perhaps absurd example that can happen on the basis of the fact that the original law referred to expropriation as quite exceptional, and today in the proposed amendment it is not spoken of as quite exceptional. Let me introduce you to this particular example. Perhaps many have heard of him. The law proposed by the press 666 allows e.g. that the city would sell out or have already sold out flats in panel houses mostly for relatively low money, given that they were practically not invested in them. And a 60-meter apartment -- that's an example -- in a panel, a citizen gets roughly, maybe, say, 500 grand. Subsequently, the citizen invests with Green Savings in warming. The SVJ house will warm up. Let's say that, overall, the investment, the citizen trades, of course, the umakart housing core, takes it out the way it's done. And let's say the investment is somewhere between 600,000 and a million. It can happen, and today the discussion on this topic is conducted at expert conferences that the sightseeers declare this house or the housing estate, these panels as a cultural monument, for God's sake, for the cultural monument of UNESCO, and inform the citizen that he is obliged to remove all improvements within some time, so to peel the heat, unbleach the facades, exchange the ceramics for umakart. The state is not obliged to bail out these actions financially, but if the citizen fails to do so, he may be fined. If the citizen fails to comply, because e.g. He can't get an umakart core, and he can't break the heat because of subsidies, so the citizen owns the apartment. I believe that it will not be possible to sue for damages, because the behaviour of the citizen was illegal, while the conduct of the conservationists and the state is not only legal, but protects the cultural memory. I'm stressing that it's absurd, apparently. But it will be decided by the people, and I have met with many absurd decisions not only the sightseeers in Prague in the past. And allow me to conclude the last sentence. There is a lot of talk about the fact that all comments from professional associations and other workers in the field of culture have been settled. As I spoke to some people who had participated in these debates in the past, the settlement took place so that these people had said their objections and the Ministry had a different opinion and decided as it had decided. That is why there may be such pressure and such disunity. [[11.40 hours]] I'm not saying everyone's against, of course, that's not even possible. However, as I have already spoken here, when the Czech Chamber of Architects and e.g. The Chamber of Commerce, which I'm sure we won't suspect from any lobbyism either, so just... You all got the letter, I suppose. I think that going and approving the standard that I know - and I am convinced of it - is not good and that it will need a novel in the near future, I do not consider it right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u13	Thank you, too. Mr Jiří Junek, who is now duly enrolled, will be prepared by Mrs Nina Nováková. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u14	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Colleagues, colleagues, I just wanted to come forward with a brief defense of my little, tiny amendment. However, even on the basis of what has been said here by my previous speaker, and anything that now sometimes sounds about this law, I would like to say just a little something in his defense. I feel like what's going on here is, like, a lot of academic stuff, and an ordinary person barely knows it. After all, even now, the presence in the House seems to be right to me that it is not a topic that would somehow move society. [[A number of empty benches, according to the board logged in 165.]] But I think it would just be good to say, on at least a few factual examples, what the law will specifically bring, what it will mean for citizens. At least a few of those things. Personally, as a citizen, I'll see you. the law likes that it newly comes with the possibility of compensation for property owners in conservation zones and reservations. In layman's terms, many of you know it, you have a house in the square, in the historical center, in the landmark zone, the house is not a monument, but even so the landlord comes and says to you: you want to change windows, those windows can't be plastic, they have to be wooden. Of course, they're more expensive. So we're giving the owner some kind of duty, but we don't tell him where to take it anymore. Today, the new law will allow the state to compensate for these increased costs in some way. So this is a concrete example of how the law changes the existing practice or the existing legal standard. On the other hand, we all know the examples where we have owners of monuments who deliberately let them go to waste, let them go to such a state where practically nothing is left but demolition. The owner pays the fine, but he's satisfied because he got rid of the unwanted monument from his point of view. Even this new law removes. In addition to the penalty, the fine brings in new things, where we can somehow get the owner to take better care of the memory and not end up with the demolition and merely paying the fine. So it's just one particular example of what the new law brings. There's a lot of new stuff in there. Me personally, for example. it also likes that there are clearly defined rules for certain professions to make decisions in the context of conservation care. Much discussed are rules for workers who create so-called. SHP - constructional historical surveys. I think it's quite okay that the person who has to give the statement e.g. I think it's quite right that this person should have some education, have some practice, simply prove some criteria. I think it's perfectly okay that someone can't do it. So these are some specific things that I wanted to mention here, what maybe the new law brings. I don't think I will delay any further, but I must respond to the example of my fellow Member, Mr Adámek, now with the expropriation. It really is a completely absurd example. The idea of someone destroying the potential memory first, i.e. The panel house that actually destroys it by heating it up and tearing out the original cores, etc., and then the memorialist comes and declares it a memory, the destroyed memory, so it's really completely absurd and it doesn't work like that. Plus, when we're talking about expropriation, the law is procedurally subject to the expropriation law, so it's not just someone coming in and expropriating. Those are just shortcuts that we want to scare people, and few people are gonna check it out. But it was simply said in the Chamber of Deputies that they should all be frightened that they would walk by the landlords, proclaim their homes to them as monuments and expropriate them. So it certainly isn't, and I'd like us not to use pseudoarguments like that. As far as my amendment is concerned, it is just a small, small amendment, I would say a little step in the law and a big step for archaeologists. I already talked about it at second reading. It's just that the law brings the so-called. rescue archaeological research projects, where archaeologists have to say in advance what methods they will use, to what extent, etc., which I think is to some extent okay with large area research. On the other hand, as I mentioned here in the House, it is probably not quite okay, it would not be good for small line constructions, for excavations, it would be an unnecessary administrative burden. And I think if we remove this obligation from the law for archaeologists, nothing will happen to them and it will make their job easier. So I would ask you, if necessary, to support this amendment of mine, which is in your materials under the letter G. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u15	Thank you, too. Mrs Nina Nováková will now appear and prepare Mrs Hubáčková. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Junek said, it is a bit of a pity that we who have been dealing with the bill for about two years now do not have much opportunity to tell you and recommend which amendments you might be able to support because there are few of you here, simply because most Members have already come up with an opinion today - we will sweep it under the table, reject it or support it. This morning we received further comments from the said Chamber of Commerce. I do not agree with what Mr Junek has said through you, Mr President, or through you, Mr President, what Mr Adámek has said, yet I am slightly more optimistic than most of you. I'd like to recommend one of the postcards. If we get a statement from highly respected and somehow renowned organizations, associations, associations, we should immediately ask which version of this so-called. You have read the monument law, which version the association responds to. Because ladies and gentlemen, it is important to say - and we should probably be fair to the work of Members and also to the work of the Ministry of Culture workers - that law has changed a little in the long process of negotiating. And unlike some, I don't think he's changed to any worse. For example, we are. in committee, they have supported a number of minor changes that are actually improving the law. In what I cannot agree with the Minister's statement, I can do this without the assistance of Mr President, is that there is a danger that the amendments are contradicting each other. Well, of course, when they contradict each other, one of them goes through, the other one doesn't pass, and I think that Mr Procházka has already done a huge job on this as rapporteur for this press. [[11.50 hours]] If I could ask you to do something, I would recommend your attention to the amendments. Some are from the TOP 09 workshop, respectively. with the assistance of experts, such as Mrs Chalánková and Mr Herbert Pavera. I also have some amendments there. And while I respect the great scepticism of Mr, by your means, Mr President, Mr Adámek, I have recommended, as a guarantor of this press, that the majority of Mr Adámek's amendments be supported for one reason. Because the way we really are in this for a long time, the amendments are complementary. And indeed, if we put together, for example, Mrs Chalánková and Mrs Adámek's amendments, then if they pass, the bill will really improve, in the context. It's not true that there's goulash in which no one will know what the law is. Those amendments are positively complementary in many ways. What I have repeatedly accused of this law is that it is such a technical, too technical approach to it and it is such a technical standard. I may be an idealist, but I believe that the sights, if we are to protect them, must be protected by everyone, mostly the entire population. We must at least have the same relationship with them as with the environment. That means monuments are supposed to be part of our lives. We're supposed to accept that it's something worthwhile, in all aspects. So here I have to poke a little bit more into the ministry, which I hate to hear talk about the fact that there is also an intangible characteristic of a particular monument. An example is the amendment that talks about the so-called sound memory. I heard experts explain to me that this is wrong. Other experts explain to me that this is a good thing. I'm gonna make this very simple. Most of the bells or the organ is in sacral structures. Most sacral buildings, or churches, are monuments. Those organs are part of these sacral structures. But it's not just the golden angels and the beautiful-looking whistles. It's a musical instrument. And if, during his reconstruction, the organ loses its sound during his maintenance, then it's really just the angels and a couple of whistles that we can take pictures of. But the memory itself, because it's a musical instrument, it's no use at all, and we're playing the world primate in it, so it just loses that value. If the organ doesn't play and the bells ring, it's just, like Mácha would say, broken harps tone, right? So I'm a little sorry about this. I know that the Ministry of Culture is a bit of a thorn in the eye of my proposals that talk about being intangible cultural monuments. Even my proposal to redefine the proposed definition of the conservation fund as part of our heritage, as we have it in the preamble to our Constitution, because the heritage we are to preserve is natural, cultural, tangible and intangible - I failed to do so. I can only ask you Members to overrule the opinion of the Ministry of Culture. But I would like to conclude by saying that I do not think that the amendments are factually wrong, because here I am quite very strongly opposed to the fact that they are actually opposed by Members who have been consulting experts for two years, and then they are against each other - I know it is their child - five officials from the Ministry of Culture and they will tell them that the amendments are factually wrong. I see, they've spent years preparing. But that doesn't mean it's perfect. Therefore, for those of you ladies and gentlemen who are not firmly determined to reject the amendment on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund, I would like to propose another option, and that is to support the amendments. Because it is not true that the amendments make stew in this. We consulted each other. We consulted with the experts. We consulted with the Ministry after all. And the amendments, respectively. their approval would really make this amendment, which I believe we need, so this amendment would improve - despite what the Ministry's position will be. Please consider it. I believe that amendments would improve the amendment. There may be another amendment to this amendment in the next parliamentary term, but that is the fate of all legal norms. So before we throw it in the trash, it is still an option to support the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u17	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mrs Hubáčková and Mr Seďa will be ready. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u18	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, there has already been a lot said today about the Government's proposal for a new conservation law, and not just today, but for two years. In any case, we can also see from the contributions made in this debate that more than 50 amendments show us that this proposal has very serious shortcomings. Weaknesses in system, professional and material. And it is quite obvious from the course of our discussion. However, the new law is a legal document, a legislative regulation that should be drawn up flawlessly in order to be operational at all, i.e. argumentatively accurate, clear, understandable, without errors and ambiguity. And in this legal and staff culture, a very large bill is limping in any case. And it can be explained in many cases, details that are not small things at all. It is not only about legal culture and legislative elegance, but mainly about the fact that the law can be applied and enforced in practice. And the nice words in his preamble aren't enough. Don't worry, I won't bother you now. In any case, we should listen to building historians, academics, associations of professional staff of monument care, memorialists of the National Heritage Institute. We should listen to architects. But, after all, we should also listen to the regions whose comments have not even been properly recorded and settled and are now returning to us in several dozens of amendments. Of course, I consider the proposed amendments to be very reasonable and correct. But they can hardly correct the bill as a whole. I consider a government bill ripe for rejection. I don't think it's a question of coalition, opposition decision-making. Not at all. It is currently a cultural heritage. A good law can help to protect it, and a bad one can do a lot of damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Antonín Seďa, who is now duly applied for, will now appear. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u20	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, honourable members of the government, dear colleagues, I will be very brief because it has been said a lot here. I agree that the current law in force on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund is obsolete and that it needs to be amended. I'm not gonna go with that at all. However, I expected that the amendment, which is presented, would bring about a correction and, above all, a change in concept and conceptuality, which did not happen. And I'm a little sorry about the Ministry of Culture's approach during the legislative hearing here in the Chamber of Deputies. It has already been said that there are considerable reservations, whether the experts who follow this law or the lay public. At first and second reading, I mentioned these problems. I just want to point out that my comprehensive amendment, which is under points J1 to J24, had the ambition to introduce urbanism into the conservation law to protect not only individual monuments, as it is now, but also monument zones, urban landmark zones, monument reserves and entire historic cities. I therefore ask for the support of my amendments, and we will see what text will actually be approved after we have voted on the individual amendments. Because really 42 pages of amendments are quite enough to make the law good. Thank you for your attention and any support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u21	I thank Mr Antonín Seďa. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. This was the last written application for the debate. I'm asking if there's anyone else reporting from the scene. I see no one, so I can end the debate at third reading. I'm asking for final words. The Minister is not interested, Mr Procházka is not interested, Mr Berkovec is not interested, so we can go to the vote on the amendments. I will ask the rapporteur, Roman Procházka, to tell us what the draft voting procedure is, and then we will move on. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me first introduce you to the entire voting procedure for the draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of natural resources. We would subsequently approve this and then proceed to the vote on individual proposals. The amendments tabled at second reading are set out in House print number 666/3. The guarantee committee discussed the amendments at its meeting on 7 June this year, the opinions of the guarantee committee are set out in committee resolution 232, referred to as House press number 666/5. I must now point out that the following amendments tabled are unvoting. This is the D5 where the ambiguous wording of the amendments, D13, once again the ambiguous wording of the amendments, D14 to D19, where it is unclear what is to be voted on, D47 and D48, is not clear here what is to be voted on, and J1 to J5, J7, J8, J10 to J17, J20, J21, J23 and J24, the proposals are factually related, but some amendments lack some text or do not contain a clear text and do not meet formal requirements. [[It's very busy in the hall.]] Furthermore, we will vote on individual amendments, and I will inform you of their substance before I vote. We will vote on the amendments as follows: One. First, we will vote -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u23	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. The procedure is not simple and please pay attention because, of course, one of the proposers can express that he insists on the proposal, which is marked as unvoteable, so that we can all be completely clear about the picture. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u24	Thank you, because the procedure is really extremely difficult and there will be several pitfalls. So first, we will vote on a motion to reject the bill. If the bill is not rejected, we will vote on the E18. Furthermore, we will vote on A1, if A1 is adopted, E19 to E23, B16, D33 to D35 are unvoted. If A1 is adopted, the vote will continue to be on B61, B62, together, and on J18. If A1 is not adopted, we will continue to vote on E19, E20, E21, E22 and E23 together. If E19 and the following are accepted, B16, B61, B62, D33 to D35 and J18 are non-voting. If the E19 is not adopted and subsequently, we will continue to vote on B16. If B16 is accepted, B61 and B62 are non-voting. If the E19 is not adopted and subsequently, we will continue to vote on D33 to D35 together. If D33 to D35 are accepted, J18 is non-voting. Furthermore, we will vote on B61 and B62 together, on J18, on E19 to E23 together, on B16, on D33 to D35 together, on B15, on B17 to B30 together. If B17 to B30 are accepted, then D4.1 to D4.13 are non-voting. If B17 to B30 and the following are not adopted, we will continue to vote on D4.1 to D4.13 together. Furthermore, we will vote on D21, D24, D25, D27, D28, D29, D32, D40, D41, D43, D49, D50, D51 to D62 together. If D21 and the following are accepted, then D6, D7, B37, J19, E2 to E17, B6, B67, A6.1, A6.3, A6.4 are non-voting. If D21 is not accepted and subsequently, we will vote on D6 and D7. If D6 and D7 are accepted, B7 and A6.8 are non-voting. If D6 and D7 are not accepted, we will vote on B7. If D6 and D7 are not adopted, we will vote on A6.8. Furthermore, if D21 and the following are not adopted, we will vote on B37. Furthermore, if D21 and the following are not adopted, we will vote on J19 and, if D21 and the following are not adopted, we will vote on A6.1, on A6.3, on A6.4 and B6, on B67. Next, we will vote B47 to B57 together. If B47 to B57 are adopted, amendments L9, L10 and E2 to E17 shall be non-voting. If D21 and the following are not adopted and B47 to B57 are not adopted, we will vote on E2 to E17 together. If E2 through E17 are accepted, A6.17 is unvoting. If E2 through E17 are accepted, we will vote A6.17. If B47 through B57 are not accepted, we will vote on L9 and L10 together. Furthermore, we will vote on D22, on B63, on D23, on I1, I6, I10 to I12 together, on D26, on I2 and I3 together, on C2, on J6, on I4, on B64 to B66 together. If accepted, the A6.5 is unvoting. If B64 through B66 are accepted, we will vote... Sorry, I repeat the same sentence. Next B9 to B11 together. Here I have to go back to the way I said I read the same sentence, I'm sorry. If not adopted on points 20 B64 to B66, we will vote A6.5. So another point B9 to B11 together, then B34. If B34 is accepted, J9 and I5, I7 and I8 are non-voting. If B34 is not accepted, we will vote on J9. If J9 is not adopted, vote I5, I7 and I8 jointly. Furthermore, we will vote on D1, if D1 is adopted, K1 and K2 are unvoted. If D1 is not adopted, we will vote on K1 and K2 together, if K1 and K2 are adopted, L1 is unvoted. [[12.10 hours]] If K1 and K2 are adopted, we will vote L2 through L8 and L11 through L15 together. If K1 and K2 are not adopted, we will vote on L1 to L8 and L11 to L15 together. Next, we will vote on D63. Next on G2 and G3 together. If G2 and G3 are accepted, E1 is unvoting. If G2 and G3 are not accepted, we will vote on E1. Next, we'll vote on D8. If D8 is accepted, D30 is unvoting. If D8 is not accepted, we will vote on D30. Next vote D31. Next, B35. If accepted, A6.2 shall be unvoting. If B35 is not accepted, we will vote A6.2. Furthermore, we will vote on B12 with B36 being identical, which is why it is unvoting. [[There's a constant heavy noise in the hall.]] Further B13, B14, A6.6, A6.7, D36, D37 to D39 together, B68, B58. Next, B31. If accepted, B5, D2, B38 to B45, B69 to B71 and I9 are non-voting. If B31 is not accepted, we will vote on B5. If B5 is accepted, D2, B38 to B45, B69 to B71 and I9 are non-voting. If B5 is not accepted, we will vote on D2. If D2 is accepted, B38 to B45, B69 to B79 and I9 are non-voting. If D2 is not accepted, we will vote on B69 to B71. If D2 is not adopted, we will continue to vote on the I9. If D2 is not adopted, we will vote on B38 to B45 together. If B38 to B45 are accepted, B59 and E24 to E30 are non-voting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u25	Mr rapporteur, I will interrupt you once more and ask the House for peace again! Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u26	Thank you. If B38 to B45 are not accepted, we will vote on E24 to E30 together. If B38 to B45 are not accepted, we will vote B59. Next, we will vote on D64. If accepted, B72 is unvoting. If D64 is not accepted, we will vote on B72. Further votes D3, A6.9, B46, B60, J22, D42, A2, A6.10, A3, B1 and B2, with D9, D10 and D44 identical, therefore not voting after their approval. Further, by G1, by H. If H is accepted, B3, B4, D4.14, D4.15, D11, D12, D45, D46, A4.1 and A4.2 are non-voting. If H is not adopted, we will vote on B3 and B4 together with the fact that D11, D12, D45, D46 are identical, therefore unvoteable. If H is not accepted, we will vote on D4.14 and D4.15 together. Furthermore, if H is not adopted, we will vote on A4.1 and A4.2 together. Next vote on A6.11, A5. dále F. If F is accepted, A6.12 is non-voting. If F is not adopted, we will vote on A6.12. Further votes A6.13, B8 with B32 identical, therefore unvoting. Further 6.14, A6.15, A6.16 together. Next, A6.18. If accepted, B33 and D20 are non-voting. If A6.18 is not accepted, we will vote on B33 with the fact that D20 is identical, therefore unvoting. Furthermore, on the C1 and the last vote - we will vote on the whole bill. So now, Mr President, I would ask for a vote on the approval of the procedure.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u27	Thank you to the rapporteur. You've heard the motion for a voting procedure. Are there any comments about him? If not, we will approve the draft procedure in the following vote. I'm gonna check you all out, I'm gonna ask you for a new registration, and please log in with your I.D. cards. And once the number of entries is settled, we will decide on the procedure for voting in the 176 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of this procedure. Who's against it? Thank you. In voting order number 176 of 160 for 151 Members present, against 3. The procedure has been approved, we will continue according to it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u28	We will now vote first on the proposal to reject the bill. The opinion of the Guarantee Committee is not recommended.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u29	Mr. Secretary? [[Disagree.]] I've started voting number 177 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote, order number 177 of 163 present for 84, against 53. The bill was rejected. [[A round of applause for Members of the KSČM, ODS, TOP 09 and Mayors and Uncategorized.]] Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to the Minister and end with paragraph 92. And before we go any further, Mrs Věra Kovářová cancels her apology at 12 o'clock. According to the approved agenda, we continue negotiations on third readings. The next item is item 86. I would ask the presidents of government political clubs to ensure the presence of ministers who will submit individual bills. The first is Minister Pelikán, who I don't see here. Okay. I'll ask, in that case, I need a meeting with the president of the MPs. Please come here, everyone, we will consult, because, of course, what was a prerequisite, the long vote on the law turned out differently, and so we will agree on how to proceed, which ministers might be here. [[Informal meeting with club presidents.]] Given that the assumption that we are going to vote against the law on conservation is a little different, I am declaring a break until 12.30 after consulting the presidents of the MPs. Until then, individual ministers should appear in the order of each proposal in the third reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-12-ps2013-059-06-004-092.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, we will continue by discussing the laws in the third reading. There's a point in front of us.
