ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-002-264.u1	264. Report on the performance of financial market surveillance in 2015 /German press 850/ This report was submitted by the Czech National Bank in accordance with Act No.6/1993 Coll., on the Czech National Bank. The report was discussed by the Committee on Budgets, whose resolution was delivered to you as House Press 850/1. And here, too, I ask that the Committee's rapporteur, Mr Jaroslav Klaška, take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-002-264.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Budgets on this report was particularly interested in the fact that the banking sector was stable, profitable, liquid and well-equipped and that the cooperative-based sector achieved profit and management of the sector as a whole improved, resulting from the supervision of the Czech National Bank. The Committee on Budgets discussed this report on financial market supervision in 2015 at the 45th meeting of 31 August last year and adopted the following resolution: After the opening words of Vice-Governor Tomšík and Jaroslav Klaška's report and after the debate I. Notes the CNB Report on Financial Market Supervision in 2015; II. Recommends to Parliament's Chamber of Deputies to adopt the following resolution: Parliament's Chamber of Deputies takes note of the CNB Report on Financial Market Supervision in 2015 III. Instructs the Committee rapporteur to inform the Chamber of Deputies of this resolution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-002-264.u3	And I thank the rapporteur for introducing the Chamber of Deputies. I am initiating a general debate that the Governor has signed up to. Please, Mr. Governor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-002-264.u4	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, this is the 2015 Report on the exercise of supervision, so I will again try to update the matter as part of my observations. Fortunately, there are no turning points. The report is standard, describes not only the exercise of financial market supervision but also the state and development of the regulation of this market. It also contains an evaluation of information about the public submissions received by the Czech National Bank. It also describes our involvement in the work of European supervisory authorities and developments in detail in the various sectors of our financial market in 2015. As regards the structure of this market, there were no major changes in 2015. No new bank licence was granted, two branches of foreign banks entered the market during 2015 and one branch of foreign bank ceased its activities. As has traditionally been the case in recent years, there has been quite a lively development in the field of new laws governing business in the financial market and the functioning of all persons subject to supervisory regulation. We have therefore prepared a number of decrees and even secondary legislative standards. Perhaps I would mention that, of course, we have been involved in the preparation of a law on recovery procedures and crisis management or an amendment to the Act on Banks. More legislative standards, allow me to skip. With regard to the actual exercise of supervision of credit institutions, which are a key part of our financial sector, we have focused mainly on quality and sufficient provision of credit portfolios, ensuring sufficient capital to cover potential losses, of course liquidity and overall bank management. The results of bank stress testing confirmed good resistance of the domestic banking sector. Its capital adequacy has also been maintained in an unfavourable scenario with a sufficient margin above the regulatory minimum. There has been some improvement in the cooperative-based sector. Here attention was focused mainly on the quality of the credit portfolio and adequate creation of adjustments. As far as insurance companies are concerned, during 2015, supervision of preparations for regulation under Solvency II was intensified, a new regime of capital prudentness and the functioning of this sector at all. We have, of course, also devoted ourselves to small distributors of financial products. We carried out 20 on-the-spot checks in credit institutions, 22 in investment service providers, 35 on-the-spot checks in insurance intermediaries, and 5 on-the-spot checks in insurance companies. Otherwise, of course, the so-called "continuum" takes place. remote supervision that operates on the basis of reporting by individual supervised institutions. As far as the penalty area is concerned, this was, in particular, administrative proceedings. In addition to conducting administrative proceedings with supervised entities, administrative procedures have also been conducted with entities that provide services on the financial market without appropriate authorisation. Overall, a total of 282 sanctioning administrative procedures were finalized in 2015. We also dealt with the area of consumer protection in the financial market. Here, our activity focuses mainly on the submission of the public. In 2015, the submissions were 1 059. Most for the insurance sector - 341, even more for credit institutions - 417. As part of international cooperation with the CNB representatives, they have engaged in the activities of European financial market supervisory authorities, such as the European Banking Association... European Banking Agency, Excuse me, EBA, then Capital Market Agency - ESMA and the Insurance and Pension Funds Agency of EBA. We are also active members of the European Systemic Risk Board. We have intensive cooperation with the partner national supervisory authorities, in particular through involvement in the so-called. colleges of supervisors of international banking and insurance groups operating on the Czech financial market. Finally, let me say, as the rapporteur has already stated, that in 2015 supervised entities of the Czech financial market showed stable and positive economic results. The banking sector as a whole was stable, profitable, liquid and well-equipped. The profit, a moderate profit, was also achieved by the cooperative sector. As far as securities traders are concerned, the volumes of funds managed by them have increased. As far as pension companies are concerned, they have also achieved a positive economic result, increasing the value of assets in their managed funds. The Czech insurance sector achieved better economic results despite the decrease of the total premiums written. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-002-264.u5	I thank the Governor for the comprehensive report. I'm asking who else is joining the general debate. If there is no such person, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. We will proceed to the debate in detail. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-002-264.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to refer to my report and draw attention to the resolution of the Committee on Budgets, which recommends that the Chamber of Deputies take note of the report under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-18-ps2013-054-06-002-264.u7	Thank you to the rapporteur. I ask who else is reporting for a detailed debate. There is no such person, I am ending a detailed debate. There's no interest in final words. We will vote on the motion for a resolution, as the rapporteur has said. Initiating vote. Whoever is in favour of the motion for a resolution, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 165 vote, 162 Members and Members registered, for 130, against none. The motion was accepted. I thank the Governor and the rapporteur. The next item is the point
