ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u1	219. Government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand /German press 1000/ - first reading At the rapporteur's table is Minister Lubomír Zaorálek. I received a letter from the Prime Minister, respectively. A signed Vice-President of the Government that, on behalf of the Prime Minister, he instructs the Minister of Foreign Affairs Lubomír Zaorálek to justify this government bill in the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic in the interrupted first reading. You know that originally the promoter was the Minister of Industry and Trade, who is excused at today's meeting. This proposal was dealt with on 23 February of this year at the 55th meeting. The hearing was suspended in the general debate. The Minister is in position. I note that the rapporteur is Mr Matěj Fichtner, Mr Milan Urban, from that last meeting. That's what we voted for. My colleague Fichtner is here, and we can therefore, as a foreign committee, I would say that my colleague Matěj Fichtner should continue to be the rapporteur for this press. Does anyone have a suggestion that we vote on the return of our intelligence obligations to our colleague Fichtner, or do we take this into account as a foreign committee meeting because he was originally designated rapporteur? Mr Urban agrees with this factually, Mr Fichtner is ready and, in that case, he will continue his intelligence activities without a vote. [[12.40 hours]] We will continue the debate. Would the Foreign Minister like to speak before the debate is opened? Mr. Secretary? [[Minister Zaoralek suggests he doesn't want to perform.]] He's not interested. The rapporteur does. In that case, I give the floor in an open debate to rapporteur Matěj Fichtner. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to present an additional intelligence report, very briefly. In a way, the trade agreement between the European Union and Canada is a revolutionary regulation of transatlantic trade relations and I believe it is the most important foreign policy document discussed in this parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies. The essence of the CETA agreement is the economic theory of unification and expansion of the free market leading to more intense competition. The consequences of this increase in competition include, in particular, but not exclusively, more rational use of economic resources and rational distribution of business economic activity products, increased pressure on production efficiency, increased pressure on innovation, wider supply of goods and services for consumers, reduced production inputs, improved industrial production and resulting increased competitiveness of transatlantic economic space against the rest of the world. For Czech companies CETA represents an opportunity if they want to expand their activities to Canada. Moreover, the Canadian Government will open its public procurement contracts for the participation of European companies, and Evropan will thus have an exclusive position, much more open than for other trading partners in Canada. In addition, Canada has promised to simplify public procurement procedures and to publish tenders on one common website. For small companies that want to apply for public contracts on foreign markets, access to information is currently the biggest barrier. Europe will be able to export almost 92 percent of its food and agricultural products to Canada without additions. Many European designations of origin will continue to be protected, together with 143, including Czech beer and zatec hops. If Canada were part of the European Union, it would be its seventh most populous country. As far as gross domestic product is concerned, it would be in fifth place. Its annual GDP is about 1.4 billion... 1.4 trillion euros. But CETA also brings effects that cannot be described by purely economic criteria. The agreement will contribute to the deeper integration of the Euro-Atlantic space, which shares common values, common respect for the free market, human rights and democracy, common cultural foundations and common history. The common practice of the states of the European Union and of Canada on certain policy issues that are still up to date today or which may be up to date in the future will always be of greater importance than if Canada, the European Union or individual Member States were to act separately. This must be appreciated in the Czech Republic by anyone who recognizes the values from which sociopolitical changes have arisen in our country after 1989. In my opinion, the efforts of some political actors in the Czech Republic to block the negotiation of the CETA agreement are based on this very fact. I hope that, despite this fact, the Czech Parliament will be able to properly discuss and approve the CETA agreement. A similar TTIP agreement with the United States is negotiated in parallel with the CETA agreement. However, it is currently more or less frozen due to the unclear attitude of Donald Trump's administration. As regards the negotiation of the CETA agreement in the institutions of the European Union and the Czech Republic, the European Parliament approved the adoption of the CETA on Wednesday 15. 2. the condition for the agreement to enter into force potentially is fulfilled. If I remember correctly, in the first part of the first reading, it was mentioned here that the European Parliament had not yet discussed the agreement, so that is no longer true. For it was 408 MEPs, against 254 and 33 abstained. In the Senate, CETA was submitted on 28. 12. 2016 as Senate Document 38/0. At the moment, it has also been discussed by the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport. Both these Senate committees have recommended that the Senate give its consent to the ratification of the CETA Agreement. The Chamber of Deputies opened its first reading on 23 February 2017. Mr. Exminister of Industry and Trade presented the CETA agreement in quite detail in the introductory words. In addition, as rapporteur, I would like to propose the commandment of this press to the Foreign Committee and the Economic Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u3	I thank the rapporteur for his speech in the debate. The Minister of Foreign Affairs and then colleague Luzar continue to report to the debate. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u4	Yes, thank you. I was thinking, it belongs to the Minister of Industry, but on the other hand, I thought I could do it because I was in Canada right now, and it actually has a lot to do with this trade agreement under discussion. We were here recently discussing a cooperation agreement between Canada and the European Union, and now, therefore, CETA is coming. And while it doesn't exactly belong to me, it is true that on the journey I have now made in Canada, I have met with the Minister of International Trade, who is called Champagne. That's such a strange name, Champagne, you can also say "champagne," but he wants "champagne." And I invited him to Prague, so the Secretary of International Trade of Canada will be arriving soon. I spoke to two regional trade ministers, Vancouver, and Ontario, Toronto. So, actually, the deal was a very important part of my trip. I was also accompanied by 21 entrepreneurs. And that's not just this way, because this was actually the third business delegation to Canada in the last year, and it's going to be the fourth. And even the Minister of International Trade told me that he would very much like it if the final phase of ratification was taking place here, the vote, so he would quite like to be there, and that it is so important for him that he would come to Prague for this. In addition, he would like to discuss some specific cooperation projects, for example, in such areas as hydrogen batteries and the development of hydrogen engines for cars. So I'm telling you, these negotiations were quite interesting, especially because Canada is currently a very developed market. I arrived there at the time when they were discussing the budget, and the main topic of the budget was innovation. The Kanaďan today have a developed system of support for science and research that we can hardly imagine, because they invest 300 billion crowns in science and research every year. So that's unimaginable. Investment in science, research is many times higher than we give. They have a developed principle of support for start-ups. The kind of incubators where a $100-a-month businessman gets a room, he has basic equipment, computer technology, he has the opportunity to make coffee, and he can start working there for $100 a month, and they're gonna let him do this here. So the conditions that Canada offers entrepreneurs are remarkable. And you might be interested in the fact that there are a lot of Čech. In Vancouver there are more than 15,000 young Čech who are trying to operate there, to work there, to do business. There are more in Toronto. So it's just that the conditions that Canada offers us are basically often being sucked out of us because what they're doing is to the extent that you'd find it hard to find here. In any case, this is how the agreement opens up to us the 35-million-dollar market of one of the world's most advanced states, offering us export opportunities. And you know very well that in our range of exports, we live from exports. The CETA Agreement removes customs duties on all industrial products, which will in particular help the automotive industry, tyre manufacturers, medical equipment. They'll all be able to benefit from it. It brings, however, fundamental changes in the area of overcoming non-tariff barriers. That's a very cheap trade between us. That's why it's worth a lot to us. What is important in this agreement is that it has been agreed on both sides of mutual recognition of product certification, which is extremely lengthy and extremely costly for companies, so it often discourages them. I know that there is a study that has been developed here in the Czech Republic, and it says that it will save companies up to CZK 100 million a year, only that certification will be recognized. It will be support especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which I think is something that we should really care about, because it is those small and medium-sized enterprises that limit these things most and ultimately lead them to think about it rather than do it. And then there's one thing I'd like to mention, which we also talked about in Canada. CETA will allow free and transparent access to public contracts, even public contracts in individual regions, in individual states of Canada, and this will allow easier posting of Czech workers to Canada. These are, of course, the reasons why companies seem to be very interested in this and they already appreciate this result, and because I have had the opportunity to talk to many Czech entrepreneurs because of these now constantly broadcast business missions to Canada, I know that they view this as an extremely important thing for themselves. [[12.50 hours]] So, since I have already taken the floor on Canada, when I have agreed to this, I would like to say that, of course, I have also dealt with some of the critical reservations that are against it, and I would like to say that it is therefore not interfering with the regulatory powers of the European Union and the Member States. Only products that meet our standards and standards will continue to be imported into the European market from Canada. I would like to make it clear here that Canadian products must meet our standards and standards. I guess you don't doubt the level of Canadian engineering etc. It is quite polite that it is not something that threatens to make our competition significantly worse if we trade with Canada. And, of course, we retain all the possibilities and capabilities to regulate in the public interest and even to protect public services and all the basic principles that we have here. In this, I think that CETA is a modern treaty that certainly does not lead to any reduction in entitlement, but it is a contract that I think really has a chance to support the European and Czech economy and can serve as a type of new treaty of a certain level, which may not yet have been concluded here in a similar style. And, of course, why is the Czech Republic interested in Kanaďan now? This is due, of course, to the fact that they themselves see the CETA as an opportunity and also, with some concerns, to follow the protectionist tendencies they hear from the White House in the United States, from Washington. And just when they hear the White House's patronism tendencies, they suddenly look at Evropan who come to trade as someone who shares certain basic principles with them. The Kanaďan believe that it will be very difficult for America and the United States to enter such protective measures seriously between Canada and the United States, because they think that the losses would be huge, especially for the United States itself. On the other hand, it does not sound pleasant to them, but let us say that they welcome us more, because we are a representative of a country that presents a country for Europe that is interested in trade, it is about trade, it is about cooperation in the economic field and it is about openness. So that's why I think the land in Canada today is extremely favorable to us. You know that Canadian relations haven't always been easy lately, I think because of visa problems and others, all of this is solved today, it's actually the past, no one's going back to it, and on the contrary, some very favorable land is being opened, I repeat, with a country and a state that belongs to the most developed countries in the world and which I think in a number of areas, even those in which today decides who is going to be the leader, so it's Canada... There is talk of Silicon Valley in the United States, today in Canada you will find similar large centers, which are completely comparable to Silicon Valley in California. So I think that's something, and I suggest you pay it a visit. I think Canada is a very interesting partner. And it is CETA that creates a special opportunity for Czech-Canadian relations at a time when Canada is clearly interested. And only from my journey can I tell you that the three trade ministers are going to come to Prague because they are extremely interested in the Czech Republic today and because they see us as a partner, an industrial country that is also interested in creating new technologies, because we also have something to offer from the field of nanotechnologies, biotechnology. And that's what interests them. They're interested in bringing our forces together. They have in this immense power, it needs to be realized, but it can be very useful for us. That is why I think that ratification is also important in order to show that we also see CETA as an opportunity.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u5	Thank you, Minister of Foreign Affairs. We will continue the debate with a factual remark from Mr Rom Kostřica. And before I give you my word, Mr Member, I shall state the apology of Mr František Vácha, received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u6	Thank you for the floor. I just wanted to ask the Foreign Minister that here - if I am not mistaken, it was said from the rapporteur's mouth that the volume is CZK 1.3 million, which is ridiculously low. I think it must be 1.3 billion, not millions. So I wanted to ask if it was really that way, or was it really a slippery spell. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u7	You'll probably get an answer right away. The rapporteur with priority rights in the debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u8	Please, that was inaccuracy. This was Canada's gross domestic product, somewhere around EUR 1.4 trillion.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u9	The trade is marked, among other things, in the contract. We will therefore continue the debate with Mr Leo Luzar's speech. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Please be advised that at 1 p.m., I'll stop you at 1 p.m. if you have a longer speech, and I'll put out a lunch break. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given the passing time, I will try to limit myself to facts. But before that, let me thank the Foreign Minister for taking this difficult role as his colleague. At the same time, I say that I fully agree with what the Czech Republic - Canada has said in relation. That's out of the question, and I don't think there's anyone here who can argue with that. But I want to point out that relationships should be bilateral. We are partners of Canada, we have common interests, but within the European Union with Canada we are in a position - I will use the term tail of Europe. According to the treaty, as I read it in detail, and unfortunately, it is quite obscure, because it contains a huge number of exceptions, we have come to a strong background within the European Union's negotiating position. Before discussing the basic exceptions that I have here, I would like to make one more political comment on the rapporteur. In his intelligence speech, he did not avoid the political context of this treaty, which, of course, he recorded for me to perform. If he held on to factual matters, I would forgive himself, but he used the political context of comparing this agreement with the post-velvet development of the Czech Republic and the outlook for the procedure he was. I would like to point out that this agreement was negotiated by Canada by one of Canada's most rightful governments in the history of Canada. As the Kanaďan themselves say, no one will be more right-wing. And today's citizens of Canada look at it a little differently, just as our citizens view developments differently under the governments of the right-wing Prime Minister Václav Klaus and recall critically some of the actions that his government has taken, etc. etc. So the views of this thing from the historical context have their reasons, and they need to be reminded and said, and not because democratic development began 25 years ago and we are continuing, etc. It has an international connection here, in connection with the world's most democratic state, the United States of America, and their presidential development under international treaties. [[Ironic tone, to be said]] The TTIP is suspended, even though Američan say it's dead. America's deal with Asia - even the Číňan aren't hoping for a deal. The NAFTA agreement remains historically signed. Američan have already announced that they would like to revise it. The Kanaďan stay here like they're cold and waiting for it to turn out. The Mexičan, under the impression of building fences, are already building a bit of a denial, or, on the contrary, they perceive the end of this agreement from the perspective of how the Mexican delegation was visiting here and the direct question of how they perceive the advantages of the NAFTA trade agreement, they said: yes, American goods flow to Mexico by truckloads, Mexican goods in trucks are standing on American borders. So it has its always pros and cons and all international agreements built on the basis of big business, big business usually doesn't end well. Now really to the point, because I don't want to go so far as to philosophe, possibly. to be politically engaged in the economy. [[13.00 hours]] Yesterday, I opened up a problem that arose with the law that we discussed here, the Road Traffic Act and the Taxi Service Regulation. It did not pass yesterday to discuss this treaty in this law. But it follows from the nature of the CETA agreement that if you do not exercise the possibility of regulation in a particular industry, you are not able to re-establish the regulation. Only liberalisation of the market is possible. That means deregulation. But reverse regulation is not possible because you get sanctioned by investment decision-makers. In the agreed exceptions that the European Union has negotiated, the area of transport is beyond -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u11	Mr Member, I think that factual arguments will have to be adjusted at a different time because I have no choice since it is Thursday, the day when they are written and oral interpelations, rather than prolonging your speech, because I have another one registered for the debate. So thank you to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, thank you to Mr Fichtner as rapporteur, who has taken up his intelligence report, and I interrupt item 219, with the fact that I am interrupting our negotiations, until 14.30 pm, when the oral questioning will take place. The winning order of individual Members is already on your desks and please be punctual. Enjoy your lunch and I look forward to seeing you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-06-ps2013-056-03-008-219.u12	A serious colleague - but there is no colleague. So, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you here and we will continue the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. First let me load the apologies. Minister Karla Šlechtová apologizes because of the long-term work schedule, Mr Kolovratník Kolorodivník apologizes from 14.30 to the end of the day for reasons of work, and Mr Martin Komárek apologizes today from 14.30 to the end of the day for personal reasons. I'm opening point 289, which is
