ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u1	11. Government bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, and some other laws /house print 931/ - second reading Under the authority of the government, the bill submitted will be given by the Minister of Defence, Martin Stropnický, to whom I hereby give the floor. Please, Minister, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, we are now discussing the draft law at second reading amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, and some other laws. It is probably not necessary to present the material completely in detail, because there has been a rather intense discussion around it in recent weeks, so only briefly. This is a proposal to determine the Military Intelligence responsible for defending the Czech Republic against cyber attacks. The Czech Republic will thus clearly demonstrate the capacity to meet NATO's demands, which declared cyberspace as another domain at the Warsaw Summit last year, in which it is possible to lead an armed conflict...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u3	I beg you, there may be half of us here, yet the noise in the room is higher than it is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u4	Thank you, too, Mr President. So NATO declared cyberspace as another domain in which armed conflict can be waged, while at the same time setting out the Member States to create these capabilities separately. The Czech Republic will thus be among the first countries, which will clearly divide the basic three pillars of cyberspace - cybercrime, within the competence of the Ministry of the Interior, namely the Police of the Czech Republic, cybersecurity, which is within the scope of the NBU, respectively. newly emerging element of the SAOKIB, and cyber defence within the Ministry of Defence, namely Military Intelligence. Cyber crime is an area of detection of crime committed in the environment of cyberspace or by significant use of information and communication technologies as means of committing it. Cyber security under the responsibility of the National Security Authority, respectively. the new establishment will cover activities involving a wide range of security areas, preventive and reactive State activities in the field of data protection, information, systems and network services. The third pillar to complement the complete area of cyberspace protection will then be cyber defence, which will aim to defend the state against advanced, serious and hostile cyber attacks and such serious attacks that can no longer be managed by conventional cyber security resources. Cyber defense may also have an offensive character. The purpose of its use, however, is active action in cyberspace against attackers compared to cyber security. This will fulfill the next point of the Action Plan on the National Cyber Security Strategy for the years 2015 to 2020, which the government approved almost two years ago and according to which the Ministry of Defence in Military Intelligence is to establish a department providing cyber defence of the Czech Republic. In line with this plan, budgetary appropriations have already been allocated and steps have been taken to build it. However, without a legal framework, this element cannot function fully. The material was discussed very closely within the professional public, whether through information articles in individual media, participation in expert conferences, discussion panels, or in individual discussions with interested institutions, and explained all the reasons for its wording so that there could be no doubt or even accusation of military intelligence from possible abuse. The material was discussed in the Permanent Committee on the Control of the Activities of Military Intelligence, the Defence Committee and the Security Committee, which recommended the bill for approval as amended by the amendments in press No. 931/4. On the amendments of the Defence Committee, I consider it important to state that these are proposals that have resulted from negotiations with the EU's ICT and are based on its demands. It shall allow the entities concerned to comment in advance on the proposal for the location of technical means before its approval by the Government and shall expressly establish the existence of an agreement on the technical conditions for the connection of a specific device, thereby strengthening the certainty of the entity concerned, in particular in the fact that the technical means will be compatible with its equipment and will not cause any technical problems. Furthermore, it strengthens control mechanisms by setting up an internal control body for Military Intelligence, adding an additional degree of control of the activities of this intelligence. The amendments to the Security Committee also meet the Prime Minister's requirements, which arose after a meeting with representatives of all parliamentary parties, requesting clarification of the use of cyber defence technical means. It can therefore be concluded that the comments on the material presented have been dealt with very thoroughly and the proposed amendments have been modified in such a way that there are no different doubts. I personally support the amendments of both committees as they contribute to the quality of the material and therefore recommend them to be approved. Finally, I must emphasise repeatedly the fundamental importance of this proposal for defence and security of the Czech Republic. I would also stress the fact that by approving the law, a decisive period is yet to come for the creation of a cyber defence plan that will be approved by the government, for recruitment of personnel, technology provision and for the creation of appropriate capabilities. Cyber defense is not just a question of law approval, but of its several years of construction. And that's our first concern. We want to start creating this ability effectively. As shown by the current global attack, e.g. Ransomware WannaCry, attacked by a huge number of computers in 150 states, whose aim is not only citizens, but also health facilities, public transport, industry, ministries and government offices, is no longer possible the existence of a functioning state without cyber defense. In light of recent attacks on the electronic mail of the Ministry of Finance in our country and in the world, cybernetic criminals are directly attacking the nature and integrity of the state. It is therefore not possible to hesitate or delay any further. If the Czech Republic wants to work effectively in cyber security and defend a democratically functioning state, it simply cannot do without legal support for cyber defence. Cyberspace is becoming increasingly a place where hostilely motivated activities take place. The unprecedented scope of the last attack proves that even the presence of probably non-state actors in cyberspace can have strategic implications, and the state must respond to this fact. The Czech Republic must therefore not be left behind. In view of the increasingly frequent cyber attacks, it is necessary to start building capacities very quickly to prevent and reverse these types of attacks. And without exaggeration, it was too late yesterday. I personally dare to place this law among the most important things that still need to be adopted during this period. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u5	Thank you, Minister. The proposal was ordered at first reading to discuss the Defence Committee as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was directed to the Security Committee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House press 931/1-4. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Defence Committee, Mr Bohuslav Chalupa, take the floor to inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u6	Thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues, there is basically nothing to add to what the Minister said here, because it was very extensive. I therefore inform you that the Defence Committee discussed the bill on 15 December 2016 at its 37th meeting, of course adopted the resolution and discussed the amendments tabled until then, which I will then make in the context of the motion for a resolution of the Defence Committee. I don't know if I should read the amendments?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u7	That's up to you. You can leave a message.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u8	At this point, there is no need to quote the amendments. Thank you, everyone can find them in the system.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u9	Thank you. I will now ask the rapporteur of the Security Committee for Mr Roman Váňa, whom I do not see at the moment, or if anyone from the committee would take the floor and represent him. As we are at second reading, the rapporteur will be replaced by Mr Václav Klučka, who I hereby give the floor to. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u10	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Resolution of the Defence Committee - security, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u11	We reached next door.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u12	Thank you very much, thank you, Mr Vice-President. Resolution No Council Regulation (EC) No 139 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 35 November 2016 on the Security Committee concerning the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the implementation of Council Regulation (EC) No 45/2001 (OJ L 8, 12.1.2004, p. 1). 931. Security Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening speech of Deputy Minister of Defence for the Management of the Defence Policy Section and Strategy of doktor Jakub Landovský and Director of Military Intelligence . Jan Beroun and following the intelligence report presented by the Chairman of the Ing Committee. Roman Váňa interrupts in the general debate the discussion of the draft of this law until it is discussed by a permanent commission for the control of the activities of Military Intelligence, but until 12 December 2016 at the latest.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u13	Thank you. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Jiří Štětina joined us first. With priority rights, Mr. President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u14	I just want to ask you about what we just heard. I hear the committee's adjourned the hearing. And then what happened? I have a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u15	Thank you. I ask the rapporteur if he wants to respond.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u16	I do not want to apologize, I really did not expect to address this point, but then followed by another resolution 155 of the Security Committee of the 18th meeting of 8 February 2017 on the Government's proposal by the House Press 931, where the Security Committee recommends the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to approve the draft bill tabled, as amended by the amendments contained in the Houses of the Press 931/4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u17	Thank you, rapporteur. We will now continue with the general debate that I have already opened. Mr. Štětina will be the first to speak, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u18	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, honourable Members, the means far less drastic than nuclear thermonuclear weapons is enough to destroy human society. They're chemical, biological weapons, but unfortunately also connecting. When in 2000 and later in 2011, with colleagues from the Department of Health, Interior, Defence, we prepared the publication Medical Disasters and another publication Health and Integrated Rescue System, I had no idea how fast the fasteners would develop, which means cyber danger. I would just like to briefly define what generations of natural or all disasters we have. Of course, we count natural disasters and human disasters into the first generation. We count chemical terrorism, biological terrorism and more into the second generation. And third, that's the worst of all today, are so-called generations, when we call third millennium disasters connecting, when terrorist actions, but without man's direct guilt, can result in a blackout of Internet networks, computer networks, a breakdown of satellite transmissions, and the entire system of linking our civilization. All teams of experts, crisis crews and technicians as well as all rescuers will have to prepare for this great probability today. We today call these disasters the English word breakdown. Now, get to the point. The global trend is a huge and dynamic increase in the use of sophisticated communication and information technologies. This situation leads to a considerable acceleration of communication between people, the great expansion of available services, the development of industry and information society. But global dependence on these information technologies is growing rapidly. With increasing dependence on these technologies, the risk of abuse also increases significantly. Sophisticated attack on information technology companies can lead to potentially significant damage, with cyber attacks becoming increasingly frequent and more complex. From the statistics available, it can only be estimated that botnet, that means attacking computers are around 300 miles worldwide. out of a total of about 2 billion. used computers and every day will take place more than 20 miles. Malware signature attacks. It's infected more than 6 miles. the website and several million email pages are broken. Many millions of unknown-type attacks are identified every day. In the light of recent attacks on the email communication of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when several thousand documents were stolen and data on the management and employees of the Ministry, in conjunction with the latest worldwide attack on WannaCry ransomware, which encrypted hundreds of thousands of computers, must ensure cyber defence of the Czech Republic and start its construction of military defence intelligence in a legal way one of the main priorities of the Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is a member of NATO and the European Union, so it is necessary to bear in mind the issue of cooperation both within the Czech Republic and international. The NATO Summit in Warsaw accepted cyberspace as another operational domain. Unlike other threats, cyber defence is a national task for individual NATO Member States. [[12.20 hours]] And now the reasons for the military intelligence commission by cyber defense. The classic kinetic defense of the state against external assault is traditionally in the Gesture of the Ministry of Defence. In view of the experience of active activities in cyberspace, the importance of cyberspace defence and the number of human resources available, cyber defence has been designed into the competence of Military Intelligence, of course in ensuring cooperation and coordination with the Army of the Czech Republic. Cyber defence activities are very specific. In addition, some capabilities leading to averting cyber attacks for their sensitive and necessarily consistently classified nature show a form of intelligence. This is, for example, the security of information on cyber threats, attackers and tools needed to guide both the attack and, of course, defense. Since the very beginning, it has been widely discussed how to ensure cyber defence at a stage where it is no longer possible to resist cyber tasks only by cyber security measures in the diction of Act No. 181/2014 Coll., on Cyber Security. Military intelligence has been defined within the Ministry of Defence as an entity that has the optimum prerequisites for the creation of such a unit and is able to secure the construction and creation of the necessary structures, secure fixed infrastructure, acquire and train the necessary personnel in real time. Military intelligence is part of the negotiations to secure a request at the conclusion of the Warsaw NATO Summit for the purpose of defending the state and supporting cyber operations in the framework of the deployment of the Army of the Czech Republic in missions. Using the Internet can be attacked and physically crippled by the state's basic industrial infrastructure of twos, its important information systems. The state's function would not be fulfilled. We now know how to defend ourselves against conventional weapons. We have the means and tools to scare away the attackers. We can counterattack. But we're not ready for extensive hybrid cyber tasks yet. These forms of combat undermine our security and circumvent our defenses. It is necessary to realise how serious a threat we are facing. If the legislative process of amending laws to cyber defence had not been implemented and the laws related to it had not yet been adopted during this parliamentary term - I stress, still in this election period - it will not be possible to secure cyber defence and security of the Czech Republic in the preparation of any massive attack on critical information infrastructure and important information systems. There may be a total collapse of information and communication infrastructure starting with the provision of energy supplies, the functioning of banks and hospitals, including restrictions on public administration functions and other services. In the end, all the services and functions of the State as such could collapse. Finally, a reduction (?) would also be an essential aspect. distrust in the Czech Republic by allies. I really must conclude that what we took as a fiction or a possibility in 2000 has become a reality in less than 15 years, and it needs to be done very quickly and urgently. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Another party to the general debate is Mr Chalupa. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u20	Thank you for the floor. Colleagues, my colleague, I'm only going to allow myself a brief tour of some kind of theory. The concept of vulnerability is the degree of imperfection of ensuring an ideal condition, which would be invulnerability. Examples of our vulnerability are perhaps such - only very briefly - the leak of Prime Minister's e-mails, hacking into one of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' systems, illegal eavesdropping of government members and members of the Security Council of the State, a number of partial attacks on the critical and other infrastructure of the state. See the latest attack, as mentioned here by the Minister, who has essentially intervened globally, and as far as this attack is concerned, no one can definitively rule out, although at first sight it is not a very sophisticated attack, that it is not just a small part of a complete testing of our self-defense capabilities, including the increasing intensity of terrorist attacks, as we have witnessed in recent weeks. Take measures that reduce vulnerability to the lowest possible minimum, in other words to take appropriate security measures, and security in this context includes internal security of the State and its external defence. As for the threat, the threat is something that arouses fear, fear, or vigilance that is proportionate to the nature of the protected value. The protected value is this state of ours. So if we agree with each other that this is a matter of defence and security and not policymaking, politics, and if we are equally aware of both our vulnerability and the threat, and we have an idea of the current capabilities that clearly do not reflect the already mentioned vulnerability and threat, then it is not an option, but a need for a state that, among other attributes, has a certain degree of monopoly of power to decide, to act in the interests of those who make up, who pay taxes, whether it is a citizen or entities that operate within the state - from critical infrastructure to significant information systems to business entities. The task of ensuring defense, i.e. active, offensive defense, logically falls to the Ministry of Defence, which, at the moment, thanks to the fact that we have for various reasons for decades the importance of cyberspace as an area where it will occur, and it is already evidently happening, hybrid campaigns, hybrid wars, and therefore conflicts that have a hostile character. As a man who knows something about military, I respect one of the basic rules, and that is that the best defense, if I am in a situation where I must defend myself, is an attack - hard, fast, and uncompromising. And not just that. The enemy should also have the notion that we not only want to defend ourselves in this way, but that we are also equipped for this active defence technologically, personnelly and knowledgeably and legally. I certainly refuse to sit with my hands down and wait for what will happen and then lament what the enemy has done to us. I would like to point out that the significance and impact of basically military operations by means of cybernetic means today is at least 1:1 compared to the physical capabilities of the armed struggle. As far as our readiness to cope with this fact is concerned, then we are in very bad shape, because the ratio of our expenses to physical defense is about CZK 54 billion and cyber defence expenditures are in order just hundreds of millions of crowns. This is not just a problem for the Czech Republic, the Czech Armed Forces. It's our future problem. And how we can deal with it will also determine our existential survival in the future world, in our more complex future. This law, as proposed by the Minister and proposed by the coalition government, this competence, which I hope we will entrust to Military Intelligence, is at this moment all we can - we can't really do, but we must necessarily do. That's all we have at our disposal. At the same time, I see this step as the first step in building a new kind of our armed forces, the forces of cyber defense. And I appeal to you, colleagues, to take a real look at it from that factual point of view, and this law was passed at the third reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Martin Sedlář will be next in the debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u22	Thank you. Mr President, members of the government, colleagues, colleagues, allow me to ask you from this place to really realise that the performance of cyber defence is an integral part of ensuring the defence of the state, which was also formally defined at the NATO summit in Warsaw, where it was - and would like to say finally - this space, this dimension recognised as the fourth dimension. Of course, experts say that the fifth dimension is the universe, which is fine. As we know from our personal lives today, our dependence on electronic systems is constantly increasing. This also applies in the field of defence and perhaps even more, starting with communications and ending with sophisticated organizational systems. Our soldiers can be better equipped, they can be trained better, but nowadays, and that's a fact, without cyber support, without cyber defense support, it's not gonna be as useful to them. In the spirit of unwritten agreements that defending our country is an extra-partisan issue, I would like to ask you to support this amendment at third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u23	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Jiří Skalický will be next in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u24	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you, on behalf of the TOP 09, to our view and opinion on this issue. I would like to begin by saying that we are clearly aware of the whole issue and the role of solving the cyber security of our state, or if you want cyber defence. It is quite obvious that strengthening the entire cyber defence system is absolutely necessary, at all levels available, where we expect them to play a role in future years. So we agree on the goal of how we want to continue and, above all, what the goal was to benefit our country. However, I would like to point out a few points here that we consider to be either a discussion or a problem, and if... at third reading perhaps the Minister will respond to them, we will, of course, be happy. One. Trusting cyber defense to Military Intelligence, and here we differ a little bit with colleagues, means breaking an important principle that was adopted after 1989, that intelligence services should have only information powers, not executive powers. And now we can discuss whether it's executive or informative. We still consider the position of the National Security Authority to be crucial, virtually. the emerging National Cyber Security Authority, which we clearly support. While the focus of the intelligence service's work is therefore in obtaining and gathering information. The line, which is - that is, the current structure, the National Security Office, the National Cyber Security Centre, the Government CERT and the National CERT - we consider it essential and important at this point and all steps should be tied to it as a priority. There is the contradiction if Military Intelligence does not receive too much authority in terms of years to come. Duty - another remark and point. The obligation of providers to enable the connection of the interface for the connection of technical means will enable Military Intelligence not only to monitor communication, which is of course correct and necessary, but also to enter, modify, terminate, etc., which is contrary to the constitutional order in Article 13 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights and Freedoms - incorruptibility of letter secrets. Another remark - a term that is used. Cyber-defense technical means. It is not quite clear what lies under this term. How they're supposed to operate, eventually, how they're supposed to be controlled. Another remark. It is rather vague diction whether their deployment will be permanent, temporary, and, on the contrary, it is clear that such equipment will enable not only the collection of metadata but also monitoring of communication content. In such a case, therefore, Military Intelligence - here is a question mark - should request permission from the court, similar to the Police of the Czech Republic. Who will decide, eventually, what control mechanisms should be here. Next point. The law does not lay down rules on the handling of data that will therefore be sought. What data should be stored, respectively. where they are to be stored, how they are to be processed, when they are to be disposed of, who will have access to them. Another remark. This interference in Internet communication will take place without the knowledge of operators who will thus no longer be able to guarantee the full confidentiality of the transmitted data to customers, as well as the recipients of the communication, and thus constitutes a fundamental breach of constitutionally guaranteed rights and freedoms, in particular Article 10 Privacy and Article 13 Protection of letter secrets. In which I am personally aware that, of course, the protection of the state and security can be superior to this, but then it must be described exactly how it will be done. The last moment that has to do with the previous one. In addition, the flat monitoring of metadata from communication conflicts not only with the relevant findings of the Constitutional Court of 20. 12. 2011 and finding No. 43 of 2012, but also with the decision of the EU Court of Justice of 21 December 2016 on the proportionality of the use of the instruments pursued in relation to privacy, in which the Court stressed that the need to combat organised crime and terrorism cannot justify the unlimited collection of data. So many comments and comments that we have on the proposed amendment to the law. In conclusion, I would like to emphasise repeatedly that the target is absolutely clear. And we'll be glad if these details from someone's point of view, from someone's point of view, the objections of a slightly more serious nature will be explained. Otherwise, of course, we are ready to discuss the issue further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u25	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Now, with a factual remark, Mr Gabal. Then with priority rights, President Stanjura. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u26	Thank you. Hello, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I'd just add a few notes, more like a more positive tone of what we're doing right now. First of all, by building cyber defense, we're catching up on time, but it's an area where we're not catching up on our backwardness against our allies. That's what makes it special. Secondly, it is an area where we are dominantly responsible for ourselves. And only by fulfilling this responsibility will we help others. That's very important. That means we're really doing this for ourselves. It's an area where we defend ourselves, and then we help the allies. And in these areas, I would say how exchange of know-how and experience, knowledge and information is simply an important contribution to the common defence of the West, which is unmistakable. And another one. I believe that we have finally managed to overcome some of the mistrust that has been here and that we will look for more synergies. Synergy between defence and civil elements of the entire cyber defence system, but also synergies between state defense capacities and private, whether commercial, commercial or civil activities. We're at the very beginning, that's what I'm saying. We're not being defended today, we have to build it. So let's wish good luck. And make sure we make it as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u27	Thank you for keeping time. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I'll start with the key stuff. Cyber security is a key issue, deserves a political consensus and deserves a good and well-founded debate. It's a thing we don't underestimate. I want to document, before I draw attention to certain risks or weaknesses in this proposal, our constructive approach. Firstly, I would like to thank the Prime Minister for organising the meetings of all the political parties represented in the Parliament of the Czech Republic for this bill. We have approached this so constructively that we have put in writing before this hearing - I have counted it - exactly 37 questions. I want to thank the Military Intelligence, which has responded to us before this meeting, so we could not only debate on the general level, because we certainly agree on this, I do not see any contradiction here, and it is good in this area, but we could discuss our specific questions, doubts or risks that we see in the proposal. From the discussion - I don't want to quote anyone here, because I consider it a closed negotiation, so it wouldn't even be fair to the other partners. However, the discussion did not distract concern. What I'm sorry about is that there was no such political action after that. I know it was on the committees. I'm not questioning that. They own it. I can definitely quote myself. I think that such a law may deserve more than any other political agreement outside the microphones with regard to the security of our country. That's why I'm sorry. After all, I quote some questions and inadequate answers to you to consider - the Minister says that all the comments have been properly settled. I don't think they all do. I'm not saying none. I will mention only those that, in my opinion, have not been settled. Perhaps some of my previous speakers, whether they were backers of the law or a little restrained, have actually mentioned them in their speeches. We're convinced here, and I'm not questioning the opinion that we still have to approve this during this parliamentary term. There is certainly still time for that, and we can still remove some risks and doubts. Then, at the very end of my speech, I will make my amendment, which I have put into the system. Of course, we were interested in how the allies deal with this issue. As a responsible member of NATO, I think we might know. I must say that the answer is quite strange. We wanted to know international experience and I'll tell you what we learned without quoting any classified facts or sensitive details. Cyber attacks are a topic that most Western countries are currently intensively addressing. The Minister spoke here, and I think the rapporteur, too, was talking about the NATO summit, where it was addressed at the highest level. It should be said, however, that we are quite forward in terms of legislative regulation, since most countries are on the way first to create cyber-defense capabilities and possibly subsequently to introduce legislation. We went the other way - first to regulate legislation and then to create abilities. I do not consider it happy, and I would like to ask the Minister why we are not going the same way as our key allies. Because the moment we create the ability, there may also be a need to change legislation precisely. We're doing it the other way around here. I'm saying, it's not our position, I'm quoting from the Military Intelligence response. The Allies first create the ability, and then, if necessary, regulate legislation. We want to regulate legislation first and then create capacity. We can answer for ourselves what is more important in how to defend ourselves to this undoubtedly great danger. We had a big debate at that meeting, and we are still discussing whether Military Intelligence will only use passive elements or active elements. I must say that, after the pressure of arguments, the Director of Military Intelligence admitted that these are also active elements. I had to get used to it - because I am not a member of the Defence Committee or the Security Committee, that sometimes the term is not exactly accurate. So active defense means attack, so that we know when we're talking about active defense, we're supposed to imagine an attack under it. Now I don't know what weapons we're talking about. It's quite strange, I thought defense was a defense and attack was an attack, but active defense is an attack. I say, it was only under the pressure of arguments that the Director of Military Intelligence had to admit and admit that the bill also talks about active defence, or attack. This was discussed by Mr Skalický, when we citizens say that without a doubt the state, our country, our country, the Czech Republic, must also carry out attacks in this area. There's no argument about that. A dispute, perhaps a legislative or tactical question is whether or not the Secret Service should do it. We believe that the Secret Service is not supposed to do this, that its tasks are to defend and collect information. The passive defence of cyber security undoubtedly corresponds to what we imagine to be the Secret Service. There's no quarrel in that again. Unfortunately, the debate since the meeting - I don't know from my mind, Minister, but I would estimate that it is two to three months - the debate has not progressed in this area, we have not received any new arguments. I'm saying that these arguments may be strong enough to convince us, but so far, whether in the civilian area or in the area of defense, in the area of security, there are some security services, secret services tasks, and those active steps, attack, or active defense, if you want, someone else is doing on the basis of information, inter alia, on the basis of information he gets from the Secret Service. This concerns, among other things, an area where there is no agreement between the private sector and this proposal. The Minister of Defence here said that the EU's ICT proposals were being worked out, that he was communicating with them. I must say that my amendment, which I have made to the system, is based on consultations and on the views of the EU's ICT. It's not my personal opinion, there's no reason not to say it clearly on the microphone. To sum it up - I will then justify it, even individual changes to the sections - so private operators say: We are ready to cooperate with the state, we understand the interests of the state, we understand the obligations that this area of cyber security brings to private subjects, but - we are opposed to military intelligence involving active elements in our networks. And that's a key disagreement. And let's not say it isn't. They justify it and say: And if you want active elements, if you push through it, we want to have a law and guarantee that if the presence of these elements in our networks will cause any damage to our customers, whether they are private or public, we want to be created from potential damage. To me, this requirement is justified and fair. Let's see what the Ministry of Defence's position on this amendment will be. I do not want to say in advance that they will oppose it, but so far this strong view of the EU's ICT in the bill or in the amendments that have been passed by the Defence Committee has not appeared. This is a big problem because the state wants something from the private sector, it wants to impose additional obligations, it is reasonable, but does not want to take responsibility for any damage caused to customers of these operators. We should think about this because I think that such a situation is not comfortable and can trigger a conflicting situation in the future. The second area, which we discussed widely at the meeting of representatives of all parliamentary parties, as well as the Prime Minister, was, of course, the Minister of Defence and the Director of Military Intelligence, was the area of data storage. The debate was quite difficult again, since the original statements such as "we will not archive any data," we have come to the conclusion that in order to evaluate the atypical state on the network, some extraordinary event on the network, I must have something to compare it with. And to have something to compare it to, I have to have the previous period stored somewhere. [[12.50 hours]] The key question is who's gonna manage the data, how long they're gonna be disposed of, who's gonna control the data. We didn't get the answers. On the contrary, at the beginning, we received an absurd statement from the Director of Military Intelligence that no data will be collected by them. But then it doesn't matter. And I think for us, it's obvious, it's logical, and the state has to collect the data. Do we understand each other? It's not that it doesn't, because then the defense is toothless, but we have to say it openly, we have to figure out how best to secure this data in order to increase confidence that this data will not be misused. Another thing, and my colleagues, I think the members of the YES movement, talked about the necessary means, and I think the rapporteur was comparing defense spending in the conventional area and cyber security. I agree with the rapporteur. It will not only remind me not to mention the vote last December, when it was an opposition proposal, but I think it was heading into the area of defence, when we proposed to strengthen the military intelligence budget by one billion crowns this year. Of course, it's still not enough against the fifty-four, but let's see what the government as a whole has to say about this, the Minister of Defence and the government coalition. They rejected this helpful move. And now I'm not talking about the other nine billion, because today we're not talking about the military, we're talking about cyber security. It's a shame. Even if - I hear the argument and I hear it - we wouldn't be able to use it effectively. So for each other's material, or when there is an additional demand for a budget in any area that is logically created in every government, we often say this popular item of all ministers: unused claims. In other words, there was no need to spend the money in 2017. Thanks to budget problems, it was certain that the money would remain with Military Intelligence. Unfortunately, the government refused. Then I think there are rather vague concepts in it. For example, how does Military Intelligence plan to guarantee the protection of personal data, sensitive data and customer privacy? And the answer is: the guarantee in such cases will be based on the same basis as it allows intelligence techniques in the case of wiretaps. From this I could argue that the deployment of the passive defence element will be permitted by the court, because if it is written in the reply that it will be the same as in the field of the use of intelligence technology in the event of a wiretap, then the use of these means is permitted by the court. I don't think that would be good. I really don't think a court should decide that. I'm sure that's what the executives should decide, not the trial. But then we don't have the answer to the question of how the privacy will be protected. So there's a different mechanism than that mentioned in the answer. Then it is very problematic, but maybe it is possible, in principle the Minister and the explanatory report say: the regulation is minimalist, there are various things in the law and everything else will be governed by executives. I don't know if it's possible. In my opinion, little of the law regulates the relationship between the state and compulsory private entities. I think that this should be adjusted more precisely, in more detail, because then we will avoid possible conflicts and conflicts of interest. This is where the interests of private companies and the state conflict. And I say for us that it is clear from our point of view that the interest of the state must be higher - it must be higher - at the same time it is necessary to find the widest possible agreement with those private entities to avoid any collisions and possible litigation. So I would like to ask the Minister why and if, perhaps not, whether he will support the request of the ICT Union which represents these private entities to make any damage by using the elements, and now whether we take the floor either passive or active defense, even if they see the risk only for those active elements, whether the State will support them or the Minister will support their legitimate claim to guarantee any damage to the State. That's what I think is the right and logical requirement. To this request is my amendment, which I tabled in writing. The House document has number 6459, then I will formally sign up for it in a detailed debate. I'm not going to read the individual paragraphs, I'm just going to give it a brief explanation. In principle, however, it concerns this problem that I was just talking about. According to a government proposal, it would be possible to place into existing public electronic communications networks technical means that actively interfere with the operation of networks, for example, to imagine below what it might be, because we are not all experts in this area, for example, generating fake traffic or conducting another cyber attack or counterattack, or, in any way, disrupting traffic. It should be taken into account that these networks are operated by private entrepreneurs and serve to provide public communication services. The construction and capacity of these networks are not built for the purpose of active defence of the State and their use for this purpose may lead to congestion or other unforeseen network conditions. Any diagnostics of a malfunction with other than passive elements - here we see that the private sector is ready for those passive elements and says that it has enough diagnostics to do so - would be difficult. And in order for it not to be, and it would be a proper or service procedure, military intelligence personnel would have to be part of those service teams, which I have no idea how this could work in practice. Military intelligence thus by installing other than passive elements de facto took over management of the operator's backbone infrastructure, de facto yes, de iure is resisting this, but de facto yes, because any modification of the operation is de facto an intervention in the operation and management of the network. In addition, operators have set up their own defense systems against cyber attacks. And I might even make a point, and I think that the numbers on cyber attacks are essentially too optimistic and that there are a lot more really. I think that many commercial entities for commercial reasons do not provide complete information about the number of cyber attacks on their systems, or about the damage caused by these attacks to clients of these commercial companies, and often the damage, without the client knowing about it, is paid and paid by the commercial company, because it fears the potential departure of clients when it turns out that some cyber attack was successful. So to the numbers that Mr. Štětina said here, I think it's a minimalist estimate that reality is even worse, and that the number of attacks, especially those reported, is much higher. And that's what we need to come out of. I often say that the government is too optimistic, but here the government has no choice but to rely on the data from the commercial area in addition to what it monitors itself. And I'm saying, I'm convinced they're undervalued. The installation of active defence elements can then lead to a limitation of the operation of the network or its failure, which could have negative consequences for example. the system, the emergency number, the functioning of the rescue system. For these reasons, I propose by law to regulate the competence of Military Intelligence so that only cyber defence technical means with passive elements can be placed on networks, because using these elements can only be monitored and analysed. And here I am returning to the previous military intelligence response. The passive elements, only the passive elements, are consistent with the practice of police wiretapping. This practice or those passive elements would allow Military Intelligence to obtain sufficient information to plan and implement active cyber defense by other, more appropriate means than by placing active elements on private networks. Then to point 2 and 3, that's the article... § 16b and § 16c...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u29	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u30	I mean, the amendment contains the extent of the operator's duties... [[Mr Stanjura interrupts speech again and waits.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u31	I ask that we put an end to this point in some dignified environment. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u32	We consider these amendments to be relatively fundamental and their positive adoption will, without a doubt, simplify the rapid completion of this law's negotiations and increase the number of votes for the adoption of this law in my opinion. Then let me, if it's so important that I give them proper reasons. I know somebody's gonna say it's on the Internet, but you know what it's like to overplay documents to all sorts of prints. So one more time back to § 16b and § 16c of the government proposal, which regulates it very vaguely and very generally. Doesn't give a guide to the process as defined by the functions and technical parameters of the interface...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u33	Quiet in the hall, please. Thank you. Even on the right, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u34	... does not describe the process as to how the functions and technical parameters of the interface will be determined. And please don't underestimate it. Technical parameters of the interfaces are key for closing -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u35	I'll cut you off, Mr. Chairman. [[He's turning to the disturbing Members.]] If you have any discussion, I'd like to see you in the lobby. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u36	May I, Mr Vice-President, please? [[Yes.]] Thank you. It is really quite unpleasant to concentrate on this if I really want to justify it and I want to get support for the amendments. It's not a formal thing. Basically, and I'm going to say this so that we all understand this, if the state is to conclude an agreement with private network operators, I think it's crucial that technical parameters are included in this agreement. And to bring this matter into the law. Not the technical parameters themselves, that would be absurd. But in order to state in that law that the technical parameters must be specified as part of the agreement and the contract. Of course, that will change in time, and none of you are able to write it today, certainly not. But the duty should be stated. [[Rapporteur: It's classified.]] The rapporteur tells me it's classified. So let's imagine the contract, really. The treaty to be concluded by the state - let's say now who is the state - and the private entity. This treaty will have a secret character. I agree. What's wrong with it when it's classified, it has technical parameters that the subject has to comply with? So we tell them "you have a duty" and we don't tell them how to secure it? How will it then be assessed whether the entity fulfills the obligations imposed on it by the law and which the government will in principle order it to do if they are not mentioned? I agree with the rapporteur that this contract must have a secret nature. But besides the fact that there's gonna be parties, what's wrong with wanting technical parameters? Thanks to the fact that these technical parameters will be included there, private operators will be allowed to fulfil the obligations to supplement or modify their networks. So that's point 2 and 3 of the amendment. They concern Article 16b and 16c. The amendment is then subject to point 4, which relates to Article III, Section 98a (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1, 2, 3 and 5. It concerns the possibility of refusing to connect or disconnect an interface or a technical means of cyber defence in exceptional circumstances. The amendment assumes that through the interface established by the operator, Military Intelligence will connect cyber defence technical means to the electronic communications network. Thus, it owns devices that are nowhere more specified and for which the government's proposal does not exclude active network activity. Among other things, there are doubts as to the consistency of this intention with the principles of constitutional order. However, these doubts are not part of this amendment. I'll leave that to constitutional lawyers, if necessary. Technical and legal implications are very important. The use of these elements, which are not controlled by the operator, may result not only in monitoring the operation but also in limiting the functionality of the network, their malfunction, or the failure of the entire network. The implementation of the operator's obligation to set up an interface and connect the technical means of cyber defence can thus conflict with other important obligations of the operator whose performance is in the interest of both private and public law. For example...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u37	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman. I'll give you some consideration. It's 1:05 p.m. I think that in this situation - there are already several factual points - we will not end the general debate on this point. So I'm giving you some consideration to whether you want to keep the arguments...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u39	Thank you. Since I have abandoned the ambition to end the general debate, I am interrupting this point in the general debate. In the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, we will continue at 14.30 in accordance with the Rules of Procedure by responding to oral interpelations. I wish you all a good lunch.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-25-ps2013-057-07-004-011.u40	Ladies and gentlemen, I don't see anyone from the members of the government here yet. [[laughter from half-empty benches]] I shall draw up the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mr Jan Skopeček apologizes as of 14.30; Mr Ivan Gabal apologises further; and Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes as of 14.30 for working reasons and on 26. Mr Petrtýl apologizes for the reasons of work and the last apology is Mrs Miroslava Němcová from 14.30 to the end of the day. We're going to be dealing with point 343,, which is oral interpellation according to the winning order.
