ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u1	11. Proposal for the election of Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies We interrupted the discussion of this point after a deadline was announced by the President of the Election Commission for the submission of proposals to the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies. On that point, you were handed over by the electoral commission resolution No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. I don't know how you're sitting yet. And, I see the Prime Minister. [[Looking around]] I will ask the President of the Election Commission of Mr Martin Kolovratník to take the floor. Please, Mr. Chairman, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u2	Thank you for the word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable members of the government, I wish you all a good morning. I welcome you to the Friday part of this meeting, the opening meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. On behalf of the Election Commission, I can say that everything is now ready for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies. On Wednesday, 22 December, at our third meeting, we discussed the proposals submitted by the parliamentary clubs to elect the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies. [[Meaning November]] We have adopted our resolution No. 11, which we sent to the presidents of the MPs on that Wednesday night, and you also have it in front of you on your desks. I would remind you that on Wednesday, 22 November, the Chamber of Deputies, by its resolution No. 7 set the number of Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies at number five. And perhaps a little lightening I can say that there was no surprise, as the representatives of the political factions were announced, so we also received the proposals. I'm going to introduce them to you in alphabetical order. With the number one nominated by Petr Fiala, proposed by the Democratic bloc behind the ODS, with the number two Vojtěch Filip for KSČM, Jan Hamáček for Social Democracy, Tomio Okamura designed by the SPD and finally Vojtěch Pikal designed by the Pirates. As I have read the candidates in alphabetical order and with a serial number, they will also be listed on your ballots, which you will use for the choice. I must also reiterate that, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, the Vice-Presidents are elected in a majority manner and by a secret vote pursuant to Section 75 (2) of the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. 1. The choice takes place in no more than two rounds. The election will take place, colleagues and colleagues, in the same way as the election of the President of the Chamber of Deputies in the State acts took place on Wednesday. It'll always be the same in those secret elections. That means those of you who have a last name from letter A to letter K will go left, from letter L to letter Z to right to pick up your ballot. Now, I want to alert you newcomers once again, so that you don't make an unnecessary mistake so your ballot isn't invalid. There will be five names on that ticket, and your job is to mark the candidates. More specifically, mark the numbers in front of the candidates' names. If you didn't vote for everyone, if you decided to support only one, two or three candidates, you would make a ring for that number before their name. But, and that's the important moment when you often make mistakes, you also have to make a cross to the numbers of candidates you don't vote for. In other words, if all numbers were not marked in this way, we will have to consider your ballot invalid. So please be very careful. I'll remind you - the patterns of the tickets are available both for publishing and then for the felts. As regards the outcome of the election. In the first round, the Vice-President of the House will be elected candidates who have won an absolute majority of the Members present. I will not read other provisions if there are more, because this will not happen, given that there are five proposals for five seats. If we hadn't chosen in the first round, we wouldn't have filled all the seats, which means some of the candidates wouldn't have received an absolute majority of the votes, so they're moving on to the second round. And that's going to happen again. I think we would have to agree with Mr President and the club presidents. I would have the ambition for the second round to be repeated today, so that both rounds of the election can be made during today. Theoretically, if all the seats weren't filled in the second round, the election would be over at that point. We would have to make a whole new choice, and it would have been taking place with new proposals, I suppose, in the next week. Now, Mr President, I ask you to open the debate on the proposals of the candidates.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u3	I thank you, Mr President, and I am opening up a debate and asking who is applying. Please, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Pikal. No. [[You're applying priority? A Member reporting from the diaper.]] So please, Mr Pikal, then President Kalousek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u4	Hello. So I understand that it is not common for candidates to speak, but we have come here to raise political culture. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to introduce myself as a candidate. My name is Vojtěch Pikal. I am 30 years old, I have no wife, no children, no cat, no dog, and I am running for Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. I think I have some prerequisites for this position by actually dealing with the chairing of politics for about six years, which is quite a long time, whether it is actually the Pirates' national forum, where some 400 to 200 people are presided over live or on the Internet, or I have chaired the international meetings of the Pirate International or the European Pirate Party, where participants speak in English, and for no one it is the mother tongue. The Rules of Procedure were written by the Němec and translated into English, and similar interesting things are there. So I have experience. I would like to perform this function so that I think that the debate that is going on here should allow everyone to speak. And the decisions we make should always be made according to the rules that are given. They seem binding to me. Those rules are a tool for discussion, so that they are democratically and open to all. Even if we don't agree at the end, and even though some voting majority is going to overwhelm some other opinions, those opinions should have the right to speak, because, as I understand, these microphones aren't spoken to the O.R., but they talk to the cameras here. And I think everyone here would have the right to give their opinion to the nation. I guess that's all from me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u5	Thank you. I'm sorry, Mr President, I have Mr Hamáček's point of order. [[Kalousek]] No, it's disturbing her. So, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u6	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. After political culture has been saved, let me just briefly express the opinion of TOP 09 that we cannot vote in such a high position as Vice-President of the House, representatives of parties that, in some positions, we believe, are contrary to the principles of humanism. I mean the Communist Party and the SPD Party. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr Hamáček completely cancels his point of order. I therefore only vote for the screen record - Mr Kubíček votes with replacement card number 2. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the debate. If this is not the case, I am ending the debate. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u8	Thank you. Now there is no need to add anything about the proposal for a choice. The choice shall not be put to the vote, as it is a secret choice by law. So I will now, Mr President, ask you to interrupt this point and announce the first round of the first election. Let's take 20 minutes for the ballots, which means we'll issue the ballots by 9:30. Then please prefer with a spare of another 30 minutes to count and check results. That means that at 10 o'clock we would be able to announce the outcome of the election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u9	Yes, thank you. Let me read the apology of Mr Karel Schwarzenberg, who apologizes for his health reasons for today's negotiations. I am interrupting the meeting by 10.00 to hold a secret election of Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u10	Colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to settle in your seats, we will continue with the interrupted point, which is paragraph 11 - Proposal for the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies. Let me read one more apology. Mr Vlastimil Válek apologizes from 9 am to 11 pm for working reasons for today's meeting. I welcome the President of the Election Commission to the counter and give him my word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u11	I thank you for the floor and have the results of the election of the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies for you, colleagues and colleagues. 195 tickets were submitted in the election. 195 tickets were issued and also submitted. The quorum required for the election, for the successful choice, was 98. I will read you the results again in alphabetical order: Petr Fiala received 83 votes - and I will announce the result immediately - and he was not elected in the first round. Vojtěch Filip won 121 votes and was elected, becoming Vice-President of the House. Jan Hamáček, who won the most 143 votes and was also elected Vice-President. Tomio Okamura 102 votes, also elected, and Vojtěch Pikal also received a corresponding number of 102 votes and became Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies. So I guess we can congratulate the first four candidates and congratulate them. [[Let's hear it.]] Now, the choice will continue as we've announced. One candidate has therefore advanced to the second round because one seat has remained vacant, and the following is Mr Petr Fiala. At this point, we have the urns ready, the choice is ready, so if you agree - at least that's what we agreed with Mr President - we would have organized the second round right now, and it will be faster, because we will only have one name to choose from. So, Mr President, once again, I will ask you to interrupt this point to make the election, and let us agree that we will give 12 minutes to issue tickets, that is, by 10.15, by quarter to eleven, we will have 15 minutes to add up, that is, at 10.30 we would announce the outcome of the second round of the secret election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u12	Thank you. That's a record term. With priority rights, Mr Okamura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u13	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your confidence and look forward to your cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u14	Thank you, too. Allow me also to wish the newly elected Vice-Presidents, and I will ask them to take their seats up here after the break. I'm curious to know who sits on the right and who sits on the left. [[Fun in the hall.]] I'm calling a break until 10:30 to hold the second round of the election.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u15	All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's continue. I apologize for speaking with the President of the ODS Club and giving the floor to the President of the Election Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u16	Thank you. My information will be brief. In the second round of this election, 191 valid and invalid ballots were handed over, and 96 were required for the election of the candidate. Petr Fiala received 85 votes and was therefore not elected Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies in the second round. I, on behalf of the electoral committee, state that the election is now adjourned, it is closed. Unoccupied seats can be filled, filled with a new second choice, where new proposals should be made. I am not going to speed up the process at this point, but I will leave it to the agreement of the chairmen of the parliamentary clubs and political factions. As far as the information we receive from the electoral committee is concerned, we'd be making a deadline. I suppose the deadline would be for next week, so that the second round could take place next week... I'm sorry, the second option for one vacancy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u17	Thank you, Mr President. I have no choice but to end this block. And I have three priority rights here. First Mr. Hamáček just thanks for the election. Second - President Stanjura, third - President Kalousek, fourth - President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u18	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not have time to announce the results of the first round, so I am only doing so now. I would like to thank everyone for their confidence, very much appreciate it and look forward to further cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u19	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights, President Stanjura.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u20	New chairman, new order. You can't say a word based on how I apply, but based on what anyone says. But it's okay, I'm not gonna cry. First of all, I'd like to ask for a 90-minute recess at our club meeting. The numbers are very clear. There are 200 of us, 115 of us making up the majority in the Chamber of Deputies, that's YES, SPD, KSČM. 200 without 115 is 85. Thank you to those who voted for Petr Fiala. Second, it's a demonstration of strength. And don't worry, we won't complain, we won't cry. Let's just remember the hypocritical talk about proportional representation in the House's leadership and the division of committees. Yesterday we heard that the concession of the YES movement is that according to the proportional system, the Democratic bloc would have five committee chairmen, so they gave us four, the one they gave to the Communists, and they call that a concession from our side. Well, that's quite an inexpensive concession when it comes out of another person's claim. We have said from the beginning that both the election of the House of Deputies and committees can be a proportional system, but it may not be applied that a system of political agreement can be applied. That's obviously where it came from. The majority of votes exist. And I just want to remind and quote on this mic of Wednesday's words that Andrej Babiš said. That's how he looked at our center and said, "Mr. Fiala, he wanted to rule with you, we're ready." That's how we saw it. And we're not complaining about that. And that's how it's always gonna be! What happened? We didn't kiss the ring, so we didn't get the job. We're aware of that. Please request a 90-minute break so that we can discuss how we will proceed further at this meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u21	Thank you. Now with priority rights, President Kalousek, then President Bartoš.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u22	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also wanted to emphasise that, from the very beginning of this setting-up meeting, we have constantly heard the emphasis on the holiness of the proportional system. How fair and how the principle of proportional representation is respected. Not only is it in direct conflict with these statements to elect the President of the other strongest party, but it is also a violation of all the unwritten principles that have always been in force in the Chamber of Deputies and belong to that, say, political culture. It's hypocrisy, it's unfair. Maybe some of you feel satisfied right now, but I assure you, this just can't pay you off in the long run.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u23	Thank you. Next, President Bartoš with priority rights, then President Kováčik, then President Bartošek, then President Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now seen a choice that has not really fulfilled what we have actually heard here all along. The ODS ended up in the election as the other party and its candidate was not elected in the second round. We were talking about culture here, someone might have thought it was a little funny. We also talked about fairness and the purpose of a vote in the sense of opening up the House. We roughly voted for the Pirate Party two or three weeks ago to support the Club's candidate for the other strongest party, regardless of whether there is a Democratic bloc or there is no Democratic bloc. And the pirate Members and the MPs have kept what he said, and we have voted in favour of Mr Fiala. And we are very sorry that we must now take the second round and that the candidate of the second strongest party in the Czech Republic, which emerged from the elections, even after the promise that he will occupy this way or vote in this way for the Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies, failed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u25	Thank you, Mr President. [[Let's hear it for some of the messengers.]] The next will be President Kováčik, then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u26	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, have a good day. I understand the math that the chairman of the ODS club here shot before him. However, the choice is secret. Did anybody look at anybody's ballots? I, for one, voted for my colleague, Mr. Fiala, both in the first and second rounds. How come I'm counted into the 115 that didn't vote, Mr. colleague, the chairman of the ODS MP's club? So please, nicely, when I think about it, and I'm here for a long time when I remember past and previous elections, when there was a similar exercise, in quotes, with our candidate or other candidates for Vice-President of the Chamber of Deputies, and they were elected in a number of weeks. Please, let's move on. My colleague, Mr. Fiala, has been elected in my court, or the ODS candidate will be elected in my court. I am convinced, very deeply convinced, that it is because it belongs to him. He's the second on the tape. The ODS is the second on the tape, so it belongs to him to be elected. Let's talk about the next program. Personally, I think that simply and simply those practices that took place here also by the civil democrats towards other political parties, when they were at the height of power and strength and self-confidence, they should not just take place here any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Now President Bartošek, then President Farský.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u28	Thank you for the floor. Let me express my regret that Petr Fiala did not receive support as Vice-President of the House. On behalf of the People's Party, I can say that we supported it. What I find is merely a statement that the Democratic bloc represents 48 Members of this Chamber of Deputies. That's, say, 25 percent. Compared to the other parties who have their Vice-President already elected, I see this as an expression - on the one hand, it is disproportionate and then it needs to be realized that real life is not always just about the laws, sometimes it is about human decency, ethics and respect for certain taxes. If we want to deal with everything by law, it is possible, but decency disappears from life. At the very least, I would consider it right and humanly decent for the chairman of the other strongest political party to have representation in one of the highest constitutional positions after the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Now, President Farsky. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u30	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Fiala has not been elected. The numbers are clear. It's not difficult to sway them and find that the voting machine that's been going on here since Monday has just another sequel. A few times this week, there were words about the need for generosity. About the fact that the election winner has achieved an amazing result. Almost 30 percent. But none of the past election winners, who had more than this election winner, have ever acted this forcefully and so demonstratively. There's absolutely no generosity here. It's just a demonstration of power. And it's not... it's been public today, and we saw it during the second round of voting, when we saw how it was voted. I am still convinced that perhaps not all people who have been elected YES agree with this coalition, which has been repeated here so many times this week. Is it good for all of you to be in a coalition with the Communists and the Omuros? Doesn't that bother you? Does that seem okay to you? And it went public today. But we had the club presidents' meeting yesterday. And that was the first meeting after we, as mayors and independent several times, either alone or as part of the Democratic bloc, asked for meetings with the winner of the election, because although it was always a tradition here that the winner of the election called, but unfortunately we did not get an invitation to the meeting in the first week after the election, so we asked for the meeting ourselves. We really got a meeting on November 8th. And at the end of that meeting that wasn't about the meeting at all, but at which point it was just said, so tell us what you're thinking. So we said that we are close to the Public Administration Committee, that we understand that our strength is not so great that we can insist, but that it is our proposal. The conclusion from the ANO representatives would be simple. None. They wrote down what we said, and that's it. And they said they'd call us next week. They haven't. The response was zero, and when the Democratic bloc requested a meeting, the meeting was rejected half an hour before it was due to begin. When we applied for a replacement, we didn't get it. It's not generosity. It's not a meeting. It's just rolling. This is just a demonstration of the force that the ANO movement is now showing us with its unspoken coalition with the SPD and the Communists. Yesterday it happened exactly the same way at the committee chairmen's meeting. After we spent an hour arguing about whether the committee should have 18 or 19 members. Whether 22 or 24 - and in half of the cases, and I must say, the YES movement has retreated, the rest has retreated in half of the cases - so the conclusion was simple. We have been dictated who will be chairman of the committees, but the debate has no longer been allowed to do so. When we opened it in one case, we were just saying, "Is it really necessary for the Security Committee chairman to be a representative of the omourists, and a member who has shown himself to be incompetent in the past few days?"so Mr. Faltýnek and Mr. Fiala have been told that this will not be the case at all. This is how the negotiations take place. It's not a meeting. It's a dictation! Those are the ultimatums. Take it or leave it. And today it showed us again. We're trying to be helpful. We know that we were far from as successful in the elections as the YES movement. But we still represent 260,000 voters as starosta and independents. And the Democratic bloc represents 1.4 million. Yet these things happen. I still want to believe that it is not so that all those who have run for the YES movement, that in this way this path suits them and can also explain it in their regions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Now Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek, then President Stanjura, then Minister Chvojka and then President Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u32	Mr President, fellow Members, I would just like to say that those who have elected Vice-Presidents of the Chamber of Deputies should once again consider whether they have done well, whether it is in accordance with their conscience and knowledge, with what they have sworn here in the promise. If the Vice-President of the House is a man who attacks the media and freedom of the media. Whether it's a man who lies as common as in the House of Deputies or even in the election campaign. I don't think that's exactly what you should be proud of. However, it is everyone's business and it is democracy. We respect the election results. But I don't think it's happy. And I would complement my previous speaker. The negotiations were really such that we said, not that we wanted a committee, but that we had three priorities. And we didn't know that there was an agreement in the end. And I object to what Mr. Faltýnek said that we would be offered the committee, but we were told that we should have it. That never happened. Nor have we ever been offered a government hearing. That's what Mr. Faltýnek keeps saying, but opponents with their boss, Mr. Babiš, who publicly said that they never even considered it. So one of them is lying. And if it's one or the other, I'm not gonna be the judge. But anyway, we never got an offer to negotiate with the government. And I would like to see this untruth no longer be heard. We have said our terms before the elections and these conditions apply, which we confirmed at the meeting. And when we asked how government engagements and government arrangements imagined, they said it wasn't on the agenda of the day, that the debate was about the House's leadership, the committees, which was actually declared during the summoning. So I'm convinced that the tactics that were here, the particular negotiations, the bilateral negotiations, didn't work very well. And I'm glad the clubs finally met yesterday and you can see the result. Despite the declarations that were here about "let's work and be generous," it turns out it's not. And I agree with my colleague Stanjura. The one who doesn't kiss the ring is for it... just clearly showing him who the boss is and what it looks like. And those who voted in favour, so they joined in with these mannerists. And, of course, it's up to each of you. Of course, I'm not going to evaluate it. Who am I to criticize the other in some way from this point of view? I'm certainly not such a moral authority. No way. On the other hand, I would like some to think about it, because I think this is a long-term way to work together and cohabitate within the Chamber of Deputies. I am convinced that it is very important for us to say these things, and it is no shame. But just say it in advance and say that you don't like a specific ODS candidate, you who didn't vote for him. I didn't hear it from anyone. Tell me someone else is running. [[10.50 hours]] I think that some rules should be observed in the Chamber of Deputies, some are, some are not. I hope that the ODS candidate will be elected. It's the other strongest side, it's the opposition side, it's the party through various peripetia democratic. Finally, we all had peripetia if we're not new. Although many new ones contain a large number of politicians from other parties, I always enjoy being told that they are not a politician, and they are already in the other side or third or fourth in some cases, including those who hold government positions. I would also like to conclude - look again at what Mr Okamura said, for example, what he said after his election, what he said today. I have to stand up for the media, because even regimes that are undemocratic have parliaments, even have elections, some, but the difference between where there is democracy and where there is no freedom of speech and independent media. And please think about who some of you have chosen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u33	Thank you. Mr Stanjura will be next, then Mr - no, Mr Stanjura will withdraw his contribution. So I'm gonna ask Minister Chvojka for a word. After that, the chairman of the club ANO 2011 Jaroslav Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. He told my colleague Kováčik that the choice was secret, and behind that plate is everyone alone, so how can anyone know how to vote? Anyway, there are numbers, and I think there's a lot of things that can be done. Here it turns out that, as with the election of the chairman of the mandate and immunity committee, the devilish coalition, which is simply not okay, is working - in the words of my Vice-President Honza Birke. We are here - and yesterday President Faltýnek counted it - had 21 different negotiations for yesterday, if I say this correctly, 21 different negotiations, which is quite a month after the election, and only yesterday we agreed on these things in the final terms that the whole time, the whole month, the whole 22 with the negotiations yesterday are constantly talking about proportional representation as the Holy Grail of the Rules of Procedure, and there is something that should apply in the view of the ČSSD. We voted for our colleague, Mr Fiala, as the MP of the CSSD, for one reason. We've been talking about the relative representation here for a month, President Fiala is the representative of the other strongest party in this House, and I think that what happened now is to some extent an example of how the House can function in the future. If that's how it's supposed to work, I don't like it grossly. That is, the word should apply, the agreement that everything here will be based on a proportional representation should also apply. And I agree with that, if there is a reservation to a candidate, it should be said publicly and not in such a way that we do not vote for him. That means I'm disappointed. I don't believe this House will work like this, because if it works like this, I don't think it has a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u35	Thank you. President Faltýnek, then President Fiala.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u36	Good morning, colleagues. I'd take two short notes. The first is a response to President Farský's speech. When I listened to him - then I would ask that we have enough time to see if other colleagues who were sitting at that meeting yesterday could respond. I feel like I've been somewhere else, Mr. Colleague. I don't know why you're telling your colleagues the truth. I will use these subtle expressions - untruths. Why are you making up nonsense? That is absolutely not true, colleague. I am asking you, through the President, to be objective in informing the Chamber of Deputies and our public. You are talking about a dictatorship, but the negotiations - and look at the invitation, Mr President, were called up to establish committees, where we agreed to establish committees that were in the past during the last parliamentary term, there was no problem, and the number of members, where we argued. And it's not true how you say that we've retreated x times and the other side of y times. We retreated eight times and four blocks six times to be clear, specifically. We've retreated that we're going to 18 members on those middle committees, and that the larger committees that were 25 would be 24. And with regard to the debate on - from your point of view - the dictatorship on the division of those committees, I merely recapitulated those x bilateral negotiations where we heard the demands of the parties and their priorities. Of course, they weren't all happy about it, but we had a de facto confirmation yesterday of what we agreed on during those three weeks. And it was also presented yesterday as some kind of conclusion after our meeting. So I personally felt good about this meeting, and I don't think it was some sort of conflicting and dictation you're describing here. But let the other colleagues comment on it. So we agreed on which committees we are going to establish today, what the number of committees will be, there was a compromise, and the only point that remained was, in fact, the four-block request, where there are five committees to discuss, and we asked for four priorities. And those priorities were raised during those negotiations for the three weeks. The ODS gave priority to the Education Committee, Defence or Security and Constitutional Law, and the KDU-ČSL had more priorities, but one of them was the Committee on European Affairs. And you yourself yesterday, through Mr President, at a press conference, said that you were aware that you had such an election result that you did not count on the committee's leadership. So I don't know why you're saying information from some other meeting. I think I was sitting somewhere else. And as for the election of Vice-President of the House for the ODS, I say for myself that I will appeal to our colleagues at the club to support Petr Fiala in this position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Now President Fiala, then President Adamová Pekarová and President Farský are reporting in de facto. Please note that we are out of the debate, I cannot grant a factual one. Should I take that as a priority right? Yes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u38	Thank you. Good morning. I just have to look back on what has been said here about the press conference and Mr Okamur Mr Bělobrádek through Mr President. It's not like that at all. Mr Bylbrádka, through Mr President, you may not have listened to the press conference at all. We're not against the media at all. We'll be happy to provide information. We're gonna go live, we're gonna hold press conferences, they can ask us anything, but we just have doubts about their objectivity in some media. It's been shown before the election. And not just us, but other parties have doubts about their objectivity, and we simply will not cooperate with such media. But if they ask us, at press conferences, in direct broadcasts, they'll invite us to the shows, to direct shows, so they can't edit it, we'll be happy to walk and we'll be happy to answer. Of course, the media must be free. The media is important, I'd say, a democracy watchman in every country.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u39	Thank you. Madam, I'm sorry, you don't have priority rights. [[Mrs. Adam Pekar wanted to get off.]] And the club chairman? Next up, Mr. Farský checked in, and then Mr. Stanjura was after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u40	Thank you for the floor. To Mr Faltýnek through Mr President. I was at the meeting, and that's what happened. Perhaps it would be worth saying when Mr. Faltýnek says "we" for whom he speaks. That was exactly what I didn't get an answer to yesterday. If we talk about how the commissions will be drawn up and that they will be in the hands of the opposition, who counts in the opposition and who counts in the coalition. I didn't get an answer for that. But when I asked how it was possible to give the Security Committee to the Okmurovci, the output was that, in agreement with Mr. Fiala - Radim Fiala - it simply belongs to the SPD. So the exact limits of any agreement were those allowed by the coalition YES, SPD and Communists. And that's the "we" Mr. Faltýnek represented here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u41	Thank you, Mr President. President Stanjura, then President Bartošek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u42	Thank you for the floor. I must admit that President Faltýnek is a master of distraction. I'm not gonna comment on our two-hour meeting last night, or I'm gonna be at the very end. But it's a diversion again. If I may ask you, Mr President, how many times have you said "we respect the principle of proportional representation" in the last four weeks? Maybe a hundred times. You don't respect me, but I'm not complaining. Don't distract me. You're supposed to come here and say, "We don't want anybody from the Democratic bloc, they didn't kiss our ring, that's not how we imagine cooperation, so we're not gonna vote for it." I understand. Now here I hear the words that the chairman of the Communist club in a secret election has given us one vote, maybe it is, we also have one MP missing, so there's only 84 of us here as the Democratic bloc, the Social Democrats and the pirát. Once again, I thank these two clubs for supporting the principle of proportional representation. And now I hear: don't worry, we'll vote next time. Well, we can vote next time. But we're not gonna kiss that ring until next Tuesday. Don't expect it! I really don't, get over it! I have read the words of the new President, who are not old for 48 hours: I will run the House with full respect for everyone, and I would like democratic debate to rule here. Well, we've got the result. Where's the respect for election results? Where is the respect for the million 400 000 voters representing the Democratic bloc Members? That's quite a lot. The numbers, Mr.Faltýnek, through your President of the Chamber of Deputies, just don't work on a proportional system. So admit the voting majority, you showed it on Wednesday, you showed it today, you show it next week on Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday. We respect that. Just keep the hypocritical talk about how you respect the relative system. Don't be ashamed of it! You've got most of it here. And some of that stuff last night, I don't usually do it when it comes to closed negotiations. Yes, we made an agreement on the number of committees, then after a rather complicated debate full of mutual concessions, we made an agreement on the number of members in committees - and then we learned how the committees would be divided. [[With emphasis:]] We did. We didn't agree. That's not a deal. I don't know if I'd say I've heard it or taken note of it. When one of the opposition party's representatives tried to say: let's look at it, the monochrome government, the ANO movement has all the ministers, so let's not respect the proportional system, he said it quite openly, let's agree the rest of us, you're all saying that you're in opposition, there's 122 theoretically in opposition here, and let's give the ANO movement fewer committees. And another unnamed representative of the non-governmental party, which, of course, constitutes a solid coalition agreement, ended the debate with a logic that you cannot argue against: it is better for us to have two committee chairmen than three. This is then a difficult debate with the so-called opposition party. For them, an agreement with the YES movement is more valuable, I understand that. But to say that two is better than three...? I understand. If we agreed to get three, they might jeopardize what they already had with the YES movement. But that's not the point. The result of the vote is essential. It is no use for individual government MPs to come here now and say: I voted for Petr Fiala. He'd have, like, 201 votes if I believed all of you. Or something like that, or 180, 170. He didn't. But I have to say, we're really not surprised. We really didn't believe you. And we did the right thing not believing you guys were talking about: guys, let's work, a proportional system, that's fair, we respect the will of the voters. A million 400,000 voters do not have a representative in the leadership of the House, because the Communists, the SPD and the ANO movement do not wish to do so. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Next up, President Bartošek, then President Kováčik.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. As I have already announced in the previous days, when I spoke here, really, times are changing for us, and we need to get used to it. After the YES movement repeatedly and for many weeks claims to be acting, only yesterday was the joint meeting of all the political parties represented in the Chamber of Deputies. A few moments ago, there was an unprecedented attack on the media by the ANO movement -- sorry, sorry, from the SPD side, and we're suddenly learning that no, that everything is fine. For me, the emerging coalition, the emerging voting machine, which here appears to be a well-oiled machine, and this is the coalition of the ANO, SPD and KSČM movement, is a coalition of lies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u45	Thank you. Now, Chairman Kováčik. This is Vice-President Rakušan reporting to me, and I warn you that President Farský has not apologized to me and has not determined who is representing him, and according to custom I will not give you the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u46	Thank you for the floor. I'm hearing dates here today that we've never even seen here, maybe somewhere in a horror movie or some Italian comedy about the mob, maybe a detective, kissing a ring. When we are, and I have already talked about it here today, in the past, past and past parliamentary periods, representatives of a very insignificant part of the electorate were sent to the leadership of the Chamber of Deputies, and believe me, we had a lot more than we happen to have now, so you also taught us nicely and there were speeches: an undemocratic party and without communists. After all, even before this election, we learned from some of the representatives of the political parties elected here that in no way will they vote for the Communist to lead the House. And we've got 121 votes, that's considerably more than a preset voting coalition. I would like to thank the six Members who stand outside the so-called voting coalition, which Mr Stanjura here is talking about, that they found the normality, the common sense, and that, despite the challenges of the Communist, they chose the Communist. However, I remind Mr Stanjur, through Mr President, once again, that even in the past periods for Vojtěch Filip, the necessary number of votes was found without kissing any ring to anyone. The point is - I know that kissing the ring is a very media-interesting bonmot, a turnaround - that we really do, and that's why I said in my first performance that the ODS representative will be elected, will be elected because it's the second strongest political party, and unlike anyone else, where I hear in the media the expression of the communist doesn't get our voice and the espedician gets our vote, nowhere, never, so we didn't even say at the club choose the ODS, because it's an ODS that carries some clues from the past. We said let's follow the relative system, let's follow the principles, it's the other strongest side, though please nicely, let's not be completely delusional, 11.7 or how much power isn't so great. Thank you for your attention and let's get back to what we're supposed to do here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u47	Thank you. At this point, I don't see anyone - I see President Stanjur, who wants to get off. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u48	So in order to get back to it, we really need some advice. While you may prohibit us from voting, as the President of the Chamber of Deputies has already announced, but we have prepared our nominations on the committee, we have assumed that our President, because the system of proportional representation will be respected, cannot be on any committee, so we simply need to consult. In a few moments Martin Kolovratník will be asking that we put the nominations by Monday 9 a.m., that officials then need some time, but we as politicians also need time to discuss what to do with this situation. So, yes, we can continue, but please respect it or not, it's up to you that we need advice and we need 90 minutes. I could have said 120, 90 should be enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u49	Thank you. Minister Jurečka with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u50	Thank you. Good morning, Mr President, colleagues. I just have to say I have a sad mixed feeling for myself, looking at the results of the House Vice-Presidents' election, and I'll be brief. Only those who have given the 102 votes to Tomio Okamura, I recommend: Look at the server Demagog.cz. There are beautifully documented many statements made by this current High Constitutional Representative of this House and this country. Of the 106 statements that are there, 68 are false and 49 are misleading. When I look at a candidate who failed in two rounds, Professor Petr Fiala, there are 137 statements on the same server that have been verified, 14 of them being false and 21 misleading. It's just like for me to think about, what criteria, when we're voting for people here who promise, they're saying something like that here, how much we believe them and why we're actually giving them the vote. About what the Chairman of the Fiala Club said here. When your President Tomio Okamura said about 14 days ago that public media needs to be nationalized, Czech Radio and Czech Television - that's quite a warning signal! The moment something states, I can't talk about freedom of speech and that there's a public media that it's supposed to do - with all the imperfections that it sometimes has, you and we may not like. But then I ask, how many times have you, your Members, lodged a complaint about advice in any particular complaint? Plus, this House is voting for that advice. So it's just so easy to say and criticize and dig it's so easy. And this House has it in its hands. So let's think about it when we vote for who we vote for, how credible this guy is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u51	Thank you, Minister. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the SPD Fiala Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u52	Thank you, Minister, indeed for your performance, because it shows exactly how journalists write about us and download our profiles from various social networks, from objective and objective, from official and unofficial, from various other servers that may in part be dedicated, which are politically focused and who knows who runs them. So I understand, I understand, it's an argument against us, so you use it. For this reason, we are also saying that we will only be expressing ourselves to the media, where at least we feel that they are at least a little objective, and we will not cooperate with the others, but they can, of course, write and write what they want. As far as Czech Television is concerned, of course, we have no problem with Czech Television. And I wouldn't even like to open the subject now, but of course, we would like at least someone to monitor the management of such a large organization as Czech Television, that is one thing. Second thing. You asked how many times we filed a complaint against the council. Well, many, many times. I can't even do the math right now, and I don't want to say the number so you don't catch my word, but we've made many complaints about the Czech Television Council and the Czech Radio. But also realize that the advice that we are filing complaints is chosen by this House, and mostly by the government majority, so you, too, have voted, Minister, the Czech Television Council, and, of course, there are people sitting there, there are different nominations, but those who get on that board are mostly nominees of the government majority in the Chamber of Deputies, in Parliament. So you can probably feel how difficult it is to send some complaints about the Czech Television Council, where the Minister refers us. But I think this debate doesn't belong here at all today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u53	Thank you, Mr President. I don't see anyone else claiming priority rights anymore... Mr. Vice-President Okamura, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u54	Ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to say that we in the SPD fully respect the outcome of democratic elections, how citizens have divided new political cards in the Chamber of Deputies, i.e. we are the number of mandates, and it was decided by citizens, not by KDU-ČSL, yes, you also decided that you have 5.5 percent or what it is, but by us decided, but do not take it personally, it is no cue, in our country we decided that we are the number of mandates in third place together with the Pirates. So we, yes, want and hold this democracy, maybe there are others who would like to set the rules differently than the citizens decided in the elections, and we would just like one thing. That is why, from the beginning, we have said that we have sought a proportional representation, and we have also said that any of you, of the others, will ask us publicly for support to support his candidate, we have said that even a moment ago here at the ODS candidate, if you asked us publicly for support, that you wanted our votes, but you did not do so at the press conference, even though our President of the Fiala MP, this is how the debate took place, so I decided that, although our voters would not like it, as part of the fact that we honor the proportional representation, we would be happy to support the ODS candidate, because it is simply proportional representation and voters have decided that you are others in the elections. And we don't want to decide how many times you're supposed to be. That means all we want is a proportional representation on the basis of elections to the Chamber of Deputies. The citizens have decided, I know someone doesn't like it. And we're talking about establishing the House's organs. Nothing else. We're not agreed on any block, we're not agreed on any voting coalition, no one spoke to us about the government, no one talked to us about it. We just want the House to start working so that we can start discussing the budget, which will certainly be a matter for Mr Kalousek again, because he was the Minister of Finance, but also for other people, we will also express ourselves, and we do not want there to be any need for a provisional, so that we can add to the people from January so that we can start working. And that's it, and please don't look for anything else. And who's looking for something else in this, it's politics, and it's politics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u55	Thank you, Mr Vice-President. Now, Mr. Vice Prime Minister with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u56	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yes, so you honor the proportional representation in the SPD if someone kisses your ring. Thank you for telling us clearly here and for honoring him only sometimes, only under some conditions - and the main condition is to come, bow down and kiss the ring. I'm glad you said it right here. It's obvious you're a real Democrat, as it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u57	Thank you, and I hope I won't be wrong this time when I say I don't see anyone with another priority right. Now to solve the whole situation. Of course, I don't want to make light of the situation that it's banal, it's definitely serious, but we have to find a solution and best deal. I had a discussion with President Stanjura, and I told him that I didn't consider it customary at the setting-up meeting, that there would be an automatic break, and I didn't announce it either, and I made this debate possible, and I think it's a good thing that the contributions were made. Now, let's get this over with. I also warned him that the most logical procedure would be according to § 54 para. 9 to vote on the break. But it is not agreed in advance again among all the presidents. [[11.20 hours]] In order to get out of this situation in some way, in order to come up with a solution, I'm offering you the possibility that I'd like to call a break by 1:30 now. The break would have included 60 minutes for the ODS club meeting, it would have included some time for lunch, because we still made it to lunchtime. And I'd like to call for 13.10.... I'd like to ask the president of all the clubs to come to the House President's meeting room, and we'd like to try to finish this situation with mutual dialogue after the ODS club's meeting. If anyone objects to this procedure, we can vote on it, otherwise I'd like to call a break until 1:30. I don't see any objection, which is why I'm declaring a recess. I'm interrupting the meeting. We'll continue at 13.30 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-24-ps2017-001-03-001-011.u58	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, we will continue. Opening point 12, which is
