ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-004-090.u1	90. Government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended / House print 1034/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal submitted will be made by Minister Jan Chvojka. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-004-090.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. Let me briefly present the draft law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, and some other laws. On 8 February 2017, the Government approved Resolution No. 102 draft law amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, as amended, which now submits to the Chamber of Deputies for discussion. The general objective of this bill is to amend the Civil Procedure Code in such a way as to provide workers with further protection in situations where they make a criminal notification and are subject to or disadvantaged by the employer in connection with this notification. That means these are so-called whistleblowing cases. The draft law was drafted on the basis of the task enshrined in the Action Plan on Combating Corruption for 2016 and at the same time contained in the Government's Legislative Work Plan for 2016. As far as the content of the proposal is concerned, there is still rather a negative attitude in the Czech Republic towards persons who, in the public interest and under specified conditions, will make a credible announcement of suspicion of committing an infringement. These people then face not only the conflicting reactions of their surroundings, but also often the sanctions of the employer's employment character. However, such practice keeps society more concerned about the negative consequences of negotiations, which, in terms of public interest, is more than desirable. It is therefore appropriate to gradually improve the vulnerable position of notifiers by means of at least partial legislative changes, thereby declaring the social demand for individuals who are determined to draw attention to infringements with a view to contributing to combating illegal and corrupt practices in the interests of culture of public space and the development of responsible civil society. The aim of the proposal is therefore to provide an additional way of defending the employer's sanction or disadvantage if, as a result of the criminal notification made by the employee on the basis of credible facts, they are the result of the complaint. During the preparation of the proposal, the emphasis was placed on two basic criteria, firstly an increase in the protection of notifiers and secondly the adequacy of the substantive and legislative solutions. The originally considered ex ante form of protection would significantly undermine the concept of labour law and autonomy of will, in particular, by private employers. A form of ex post protection has therefore been chosen through judicial protection, as is common among all other employees. With regard to a small range of legal legislators, a proposal for a legislative-friendly solution consisting in the amendment of existing legislation, the Code of Civil Procedure, and not the creation of a new independent law, has been adopted. The core of the amendment thus consists in the benefit of the employees' notifiers by means of a delegated burden of proof in disputes with the employer. In doing so, the criminal notification lodged by law enforcement authorities must relate to a suspected offence committed by an employer, an employer's employee, an employer's servant, a member of the employer's body or a person in public office with or headed by the employer. The notification must be made at the same time on the basis of credible facts, so it must not be a non-substantiated submission. The protection of notifiers today is a certain trend in the development of transparency and prevention of corruption and other unfair acts, but it potentially carries many risks in the form of false or false notifications, the number of which could increase significantly if the notifier's protection is too extensive. The Government therefore considers the evolutionary path where, under the conditions laid down, the burden of proof transferred to the notifiers of criminal offences which have been affected or disadvantaged by their employer in connection with the notification made. The impact and effectiveness of the proposal will be closely monitored and further action will be taken in this area according to the results of the application practice. The effectiveness of the law is proposed from 1. 1. 2018. I will ask for the support of this proposal and discussion in guarantee committees or other committees, as appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-004-090.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mrs Helena Válková. [[The MP has a question from the bench.]] Madam, I am merely asking you to give this point as rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-004-090.u4	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, we have discussed this bill on the Constitutional Legal Committee.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-004-090.u5	For the record, we are discussing a government bill amending Act No. 99/1963 Coll., Civil Code of Procedure, first reading.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-004-090.u6	I'm sorry. I thought we were discussing a civil court order, but a different press. It's okay. I'm just a quick grab. Mr President, I am very sorry. Since it is an amendment presented here in detail by the Minister, and given that this amendment would like to include the institute that we wanted to introduce, whistleblowing, which we have in the programming declaration, and it is in a way the political task of our coalition, in this parliamentary term it would like to include in our legal order, so the views on this issue and, above all, on the form that this proposal has been incorporated into the current wording of the Civil Procedure Code are very controversial. [[12.10 hours]] As rapporteur, who also spoke with the petitioners, I can only confirm here that there is no consensus at this time which would create favourable ground for this proposal and lead to approval in its outcome. So, in this situation, when I, as a citizen, would welcome such a change, but as a lawyer, I have doubts that the proposed amendment is not only contrary to the whole system, but at the same time could produce a number of counterproductive results, as the rapporteur, I draw your attention to these facts. So, yes, but I fear that, in its outcome and in the light of our advanced parliamentary term, the outcome will not be successful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-004-090.u7	Thank you, too. I open a general debate in which I register two applications. Mr Benda and Mr Plíšek are the first to report. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-004-090.u8	Mr Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I will speak first and foremost with a procedural proposal for an interruption of this point, pending the discussion of paragraph 146, House press 799, Mr Andrej Babiš's proposal to issue a law on the protection of notifiers of criminal offences against unauthorised sanctions by the employer and amending other related laws. The point is, we have two prints here, one government - and now I am not expressing myself at all on their material quality - and one MP. The MP was here earlier, and regardless of the fact that this is Mr Babiš's parliamentary proposal, I do not want to make a distinction about how I like or dislike individual colleagues, but I consider it fair that when we get into such a situation, that these things should always be discussed at the same time and that they do not occur - and you know that we have said from the opposition many times that it is not fair when government proposals are being put forward and that the MPs will not come to that. That is why I think that, even in this case, we should behave the same way, and I suggest that we stop this until the moment that paragraph 146 comes into question. If Mr. Babiš were here, of course I would suggest that the points be discussed at the same time, but since he is not here... [[Some Members point to Miloš Babiš.]] This is another Mr Babiš, who is not signed under this proposal. I know him of course, I like him much better than the one that is signed under the proposal, and I consider it impossible for this Member Babiš to make a proposal to Mr Babiš. [[Fun.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-26-ps2013-057-08-004-090.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. It's a procedural proposal, I'll repeat it for the record. Mr. Benda, for the record, I'm going to repeat it. You want to interrupt this item until item 146, House press 799. [[Messenger. Benda agrees.]] I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll check you all out first and ask you to sign up with your cards again. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this procedural proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? It is a vote with order number 170, 83 Members are registered, for proposal 80, against 1. This proposal has been approved and this item has been suspended. So I'm opening up another point in today's negotiations, and that's it.
