ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u1	5. Draft Law on the Management and Control of Public Finances /German press 1001/7/ - rejected by the Senate The resolution by which the Senate rejected this bill was delivered as the House press 1001/8 and I welcome Senator Miloš Vystril among us. I would like to ask the Minister of Finance Mr Ivan Pilný, if he is interested, to speak for the plaintiffs for the Senate resolution on the rejection of this bill. And I'll ask my colleague and colleagues to lower the noise level. Thank you. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for a rather long introduction. I don't usually talk for long, but I have to point out that in the last ten years, eight attempts have been made to modify the material that is in the law. At the age of ten, eight attempts, never succeeded! Finally, a consensus has been found in the Chamber of Deputies, and hence a political spectrum over the adoption of some form of this law on governance and control of public finances. This proposal came across in the Senate. So I'm going to read you a little bit more of the reasons why the law was passed, and I'm going to comment on the senators' objections. So this proposal is just a technical standard that regulates financial management and control procedures within public administration organisations and regulates audit procedures in these organisations. The draft law is intended to replace the current applicable and in many non-compliant regulations of 2001, 16 years old. The aim of the Ministry of Finance was to present a consensual form of the law, because in the last ten years, as I have already mentioned, eight possible ways to change the non-compliant legislation of the control, the so-called 300-year-old. But they all turned out to be too controversial, and none of them went through the whole legislative process. This proposal, in the ninth order, was therefore to take into account to the maximum the legitimate requirements of 14 different types of organisations covered by the law, while maintaining the meaning of the law and the claims formulated by the Legislative Council of the Government. The presentation of the law preceded an unprecedentedly complicated commentary procedure and negotiations with the Legislative Council of the Government, which resulted in the fact that the law was submitted to the government without contradictions and the subsequent discussion in the Chamber of Deputies was very detailed but constructive. I remind you that three committees discussed the law in the House. Thanks to this detailed discussion, the bill was not the subject of major controversy in plenary and was approved by this House across the political spectrum. Unfortunately, the Senate did not identify with this proposal. Although its guarantee committee on the economy, agriculture and transport recommended the approval of the bill, the senators largely supported the proposal of the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the environment to reject it. Now let me briefly comment on some of the fundamental objections of the Senate which led to the rejection of the bill. The Ministry of Finance has prepared a complete analysis of the Senate negotiations, which I will publish on the web, so I will only comment on the three most important areas. One. The law doesn't deal with duplications of controls. On this subject, the Ministry of Finance has submitted a detailed analysis showing that the mayors are most concerned with the number of checks relating to European subsidies. However, these checks are generally not duplicated and result from the simple fact that different projects from different operational programmes are subject to different types of controls. In a situation where the Czech Republic spends more than CZK 100 billion annually, the control system is a must. I recall 2012 when, due to the failure of the control system, the drawing of European funds was suspended. The European subsidy control system is our commitment to the Union and cannot be restricted by national legislation. On the contrary, an administrative control of applicants and recipients of national subsidies by the Ministry of Finance is a duplicate that can be removed. According to the proposal, this check is removed without compensation. Applicants and beneficiaries should only be controlled by the subsidy provider. [[16.20 hours]] Two. Increase in administrative burden. This view cannot be identified because the draft law provides for management and control procedures much more flexible than in the current law on financial control. The increase in administrative burden can reasonably be assumed in those organisations where the applicable Act No. 320/2001 Sb., which unfortunately is nothing special in practice. Three. Strengthening the powers of the Ministry of Finance by setting up a supreme audit institute. To this end, it should be added that the proposed legislation significantly refines and restricts almost unbridled control powers, which the Ministry of Finance has under the applicable law today, whether it is obliged to draw up a control plan, an external quality assessment or an already mentioned narrowing of the audit to the Ministry's subsidy providers. In this context, a proposal was made to discuss the proposal that it would be appropriate to entrust the performance of the audit to the premier's competence. Unlike all the other objections of the Senate, however, this was the first time in more than two years of difficult discussion of this issue. The audit is the responsibility of the Prime Minister only in three countries of the European Union, namely Hungary, Belgium and Malta. For the Ministry of Finance, the question remains which of these three countries is inspired and why. Elsewhere, the audit is usually part of the finance department, which gives logic and the fact that the Minister of Finance is the guardian of the cash register. On the basis of a detailed analysis, I have therefore concluded that all the fundamental reservations that the Senate had based its negative position on were the subject of negotiations in the comment procedure and at the Government Legislative Council. The result of these earlier negotiations was to reach a broad consensus on the draft text of this law. As Minister of Finance, I believe that this is a quality proposal which would significantly improve the conditions for the exercise of management and control in public administration, and I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to confirm the approval of this press and in one vote that will be carried out, to deal with the rejection of this Senate proposal. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u3	Thank you, Minister. I'm opening the debate. I give my word as the first Senator. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u4	Mr President, honourable Members, first of all, I cannot forgive myself for saying that the Minister of Finance has not said anything in particular here, but in general rejected the specific comments made in plenary in the Senate and in the Committee on Territorial Development, Public Administration and the Environment. Unfortunately, the Minister was not present at the plenary or committee at the time when we were discussing the law in the Senate, so we did not receive any responses except this one I heard from the Minister of Finance. I will begin with two general observations from the Senate on the draft law on governance and control of public finances, and then, because to some extent the Minister of Finance forced me to do so, I will have to be specific. The first general comment is based on the fact that the government failed to fulfil its own objective as set out in the explanatory memorandum. The explanatory memorandum states that the bill is intended to simplify and unify the development of current legislation, the system for managing public finance controls so that this system is effective, reduces bureaucracy and allows coordination of various systems, such as duplications, verifications in the protection of national and foreign public funds on the principle of single audit. That didn't happen. I'll get to it. What happened - that bureaucracy has grown, duplicates have not been removed, the system becomes more complex and other institutions have been added that have not yet been in the Finance Control Act. The second thing in the law is that there are factual shortcomings concerning the fact that the law is incomplete, it also contains contradictions and has an absolutely utopian effect. This means that these are absolutely specific and relate to the second part that the Minister avoided at his opening word. And now specifically on the comments. I'm not going to discuss all the paragraphs because I don't think you deserve that. But at least I'll talk about the main ones. I'll start with Section 5, which sets out the objective of managing and controlling public finances. In paragraph 1, it is said that the aim of managing and controlling public finances is to ensure that public funds are handled effectively, economically and efficiently. In other words, the law does not say at all that its aim should also be to deal with the funds in accordance with the legal order, adequately and transparently. I originally thought it was a mistake that it was not possible for us to write a law on the management and control of public finances, which would not require in our goal that we treat public finances in accordance with the law. It's not a mistake. If you look, for example, at Section 20 of the Act - I will quote again, because I will be specific, unlike the Minister - he says that two things are being carried out in the conduct of continuous and subsequent economic control by the controlling entity: on the one hand, it checks the compliance of the operation with the legislation and secondly verify the compliance of the operation with the objective of managing public finance control. So here we have a law on the management and control of public finances, which says that, in fact, under this law, its aim is not to control legal compliance, proportionality and transparency. This is a fundamental contradiction and a fundamental difference from the Act 320 on the control of public finances, where it is, of course, mentioned in Section 4. I do not understand how anyone can bring the law in such a way, because, among other things, it may also lead to the fact that if someone follows § 5 of this law and starts to control only efficiency, efficiency and economy, they suddenly find that a community has broken the law because it has inexorably and economically demolished the house in the middle of the village, because they do not want it there, even though it wanted to be bought by someone who, for example, wanted to set up a playroom in it. But the community has done so in accordance with the law, but compliance with the law under this law is not intended to control. So total nonsense, a huge problem that would arise if we adopted this law. Again, I say a fundamental contradiction against the law of 320 on financial control. The second problem concerns a conflict of interest. Also, for some reasons I do not understand, the Minister of Finance - or perhaps I understand - has been omitted. The conflict of interest is defined in Section 8 of the Law, and oddly enough, although a lot of people here say how the European Union should model for us, this conflict of interest is defined far more closely than the European regulation 966 of 2012. The European Regulation was to be adapted because it is a regulation. We were supposed to adapt him to the law in full width. It didn't happen. When I wondered why it would be so, why it is defined more closely there, for example, I found that there are some Members in this Chamber of Deputies who are not in conflict of interest under Section 8 of the proposed law, but are in conflict of interest under the European Union's regulation if they were adapted completely - interesting. That's how it is in the law, and that's how it is in Section 8. Again, from the point of view of the Minister's response, zero. Third thing - administration, increased bureaucracy. It starts in Section 13. I called myself the evaluator, the verifier, the approver. New terms, we used to call it Operation Commandant, Chief Accountant, Public Budget Administrator. We have new concepts today. Why wouldn't we learn new concepts? By the way, in some interpretations of the Ministry of Finance - because the Ministry of Finance has already begun to interpret this law and municipalities have already been trained, even though it is not yet approved - it is said that a municipality or other public institution can issue an internal directive in which it will say that, for example, the verifier is the main accountant. This means nothing is really going on, but a directive will be issued that will show that the current chief accountant has the same powers as the newly established verifier. So these three newly created and yet old-fashioned institutions have new responsibilities. [[16.30 hours]] I will not delay again and I will stick only to Section 16 - preliminary evaluation of the expenditure operation. If you want to spend some money at the level of a public institution of which there are 17 000 in the Czech Republic and there are 6 253 municipalities, according to Section 16, the evaluator should first assess this before issuing the money. If the evaluator is not to judge, then the public institution must take the internal directive - this is precisely written by the internal regulation - to say when the evaluator is assessing it and when it does not judge it, and the administrator of the budget is to do it on the basis of a risk assessment. This means that 17 000 public institutions in the Czech Republic should first evaluate in their organizations what risks are such that the evaluator does not have to enter, and what risks are already such that he must take. In other words, Strachoňovice u Telča or Praha will call itself evaluators up to 100,000, up to 200,000, up to 400,000, and each institution must do so, the risk assessment. And I don't know how he's gonna do it. Will he hire someone, preferably from the Treasury Department, or what happens? And now imagine that some community, because there is a loose mayor and an accountant half-timer, will not accept the internal directive. If it does not adopt the internal directive, the interpretation of the law says that before spending any crown, an evaluator must sit down, assessing the need to be satisfied and the data proving it. Possible variants of the needs met in relation to the objectives of public finance control management. Expected result and impact. Amount of funds required 1. to cover expenditure, 2. to ensure its own human resources, 3. to fulfil other obligations, (e) the readiness of the operation and experience; (f) compliance with the conditions. This is all to do by the evaluator and by each community unless an internal regulation is adopted that says it is from some limit. And the internal regulation has to be done on the basis of the risk assessment. That's how it is today, so the administration doesn't increase. And then comes the verifier, which is the chief accountant today. So, folks, the verifier, which is a half-time accountant in the village of 500 people, has to assess the operation before he does it. (a) the necessity of an operation to fulfil the tasks of the administrator of the public budget or of a public body; (b) compliance of the operation with the legislation - or it should be a lawyer; (c) the compliance of the operation with the procedures and conditions laid down for the award of public contracts - should be known by the Public Procurement Act; (d) the consistency of the operation with the aim of managing and controlling public finances - that is, efficiency, efficiency, efficiency, efficiency, (e) the compliance of the operation with the envisaged public budget options for the duration of the operation - should know its budget and know if we have the means to do so; (f) correct budgetary feelings - I understand, that's okay, (g) an assessment of the risks associated with the operation. Please, this is all supposed to be a half-time accountant at a small community! That's what she's supposed to do according to the law, that she's gonna do it and she's gonna check it all out. The only thing that's gonna happen is that all the accountants are gonna run away after they find out. But they can't do... It's always been the responsibility of the manager of the operation, the authorising officer. Here it is given by the verifier for some reason that I do not understand, which the Minister has not explained here, only he said that we have it for the eighth or the ninth time, so that we must accept it. If I was doing it at home, my wife, when I go to the pub on the 12th, she still doesn't agree with it, because it's not right... We can't do it like that, say the more we bring it up. So, please, it's the administration and how it's actually simple, how nothing happens, and how it's all going to be the same as it was, and there's no added administrative requirements. Now to the next part. That's head three, top audit and internal audit. 1. You won't find an internal audit definition anywhere in that law. I think everyone knows what they mean. I'm just pointing out, for example. In the explanatory memorandum to this law, internal audit is defined differently from an internationally recognised definition. If you want to find out what is meant by internal audit in that law and read it properly, you will find that it is not even the internal audit that is defined in the explanatory memorandum, but it is something on the boundary between internal audit and public administrative control, i.e. it is completely per capita, because internal audit is actually a control of management and control processes and it is actually a consultancy service and not a service that should be purely controlled, as it is built in some cases. So it's the first time that the law lacks what's meant by internal audit, and there's no reference to any other definition around it. Does it make sense to accept a law where this isn't written, where it's not among the basic concepts? And now for what's being set up in the audit. A master audit is hereby established. The Supreme Audit has the Minister of Finance under it, it's gonna be some department at the Ministry of Finance that's gonna walk, the top audit, explore how the management and control processes work, all the other ministries, and assess whether the Minister of the Environment should have so much and so many departments, so many and so many unions, and so much, because he's supposed to control the system, right? And he's going to report it to the Treasury Secretary that according to him, the system settings aren't good. Apart from the fact that the Supreme Audit sent by the Treasury Secretary to all departments will thus have an accurate overview of where it works and what's going on, and all the ministries have internal audits. So I assume the Supreme Audit of the Ministry of Finance will also control the internal audit of the Minister of Finance. That's great, isn't it? One ministry will have a top audit and an internal audit at the same time. So I don't know how the Treasury Secretary is gonna do it when his top audit tells him his internal audit isn't working. And to make matters worse, paragraph 36 is still being set up by internal audit committees. That is, because it may happen that the finance minister, even though he has a top audit and an internal audit, still doesn't know if it's all right, so he's still going to name an internal audit committee based on the government's status, which will be composed of some advice from the wise - because there are no requirements for those people. It can be a learned man, it can be a college student in the field of technical sciences, it can be a humanist, it will just be an internal audit committee, which is supposed to tell the minister how his internal audit works, virtually. how the department works, and if the minister doesn't know if the department head or the internal audit is right, he's gonna ask the Internal Audit Committee, which he's appointed before, and where there may be no experts, because there's nowhere in that law to say it's supposed to be experts. That's what it is, and that's what it looks like, 'cause the top audit... And then to know what the top audit is supposed to control, it's in Section 3, and the other audits, internal ones, so it's in Section 21 para. 3 written, and among other things it says, listen well, d) that the Ministry of Finance checks the effectiveness of risk management in the field of information technology. Otherwise, there are general things, except specifically researching information technology. The effectiveness of risk management in the field of personnel work is not investigated, the effectiveness of risk management in the field, I don't know, other work is not studied, but information technology is studied. They say it's still there from before. So this is the perfect way for the law to be prepared, and this is what it looks like. That's not normal. It's not possible for us to adopt laws this low-quality, this unprepared, this overwhelming by other bureaucratic responsibilities of a public institution, which, as I said, is 17,000. The other thing I have here is efficiency. I don't think the Minister mentioned that on purpose. The effectiveness of this law is planned from 1. 1. 2018. The law completely changes the structure of auditing organisations. Introduces the so-called the audit institution, which must have at least two members, and does not say at all what will happen to those organisations that have one auditor. And now all these organizations, if they were to abide by the law, of course they have to do the analysis. Now it's September. I don't know when the President will sign the bill, but you really think it's possible for big cities, regional authorities, universities, health insurance companies to start operating under this law from 1. 1. 2018? That's total nonsense! [[16.40 hours]] By the way, even in the Chamber of Deputies, you suggested that the deadline be postponed to 1. 1. 2019. It didn't happen, the Treasury didn't agree with me for incomprehensible reasons. Then it might argue that we're going to fix all the things I've said. But nothing like that happened. And it's not possible to let go in this form because it's not gonna work. If we want this thing to come into effect that's not going to work because it can't be prepared at all, then, of course, we can do it. So these are the first - I've missed so much - first comments. Now, to conclude completely, how urgent the request or the Senate's opinion is. We've really spent a lot of time on this law. We spoke with representatives of municipalities, representatives of regional authorities, representatives of the Ministry, representatives of other public institutions, and representatives of experts. And the result was clear: in this form it is not right and it is not possible to adopt the law. And in voting in the Senate of 71 voting 60 senators voted to reject the law. Of the 24 voters, the CSSD was 20 pros. Of the 14 votes for KDU-ČSL, 13 were in favour. Nine pros were of the nine votes from STAN. Eight for nine for ODS. Three out of six for YES. And seven for the nine unlisted. This means clear support across the political spectrum to reject the law, to prepare it properly and not to do things for things. I therefore ask you to confirm the position of the Senate in order to agree that this law should be rejected, and to spare our public institutions other bureaucratic obligations and other things that will not lead to better management of public finances, make public finances difficult and create chaos in the management and control of public finances. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u5	Thank you, Senator. And now I would like to sincerely apologize to the rapporteurs, because a factual point has come up, so I wanted to speed up the debate. And, of course, you had the right to speak before the debate. If it is possible to fix it, it will be Mr. Koníček for the guarantee committee. He's not interested in getting off. It is also Mr Laudát for the Committee on Budgets. I don't see him either. And Mr Klán as rapporteur. And then I'd give space to the Minister's factual remark. Or, if he wants to... [[An agreement with Mr Klán.]] So thank you, rapporteur, once again I apologize. So, with a factual remark, Minister Pilný. And I have a factual comment from Mrs Zelienková. I'm asking if that's true. Yes. So please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, and thank you also to the rapporteur. It's really just a point of fact, and I really don't want to make it expensive. Just a few comments. Putting in the law that the subject matter of the law is to comply with the law seems to me really pointless. I very much appreciate that, and in my first speech in the Senate, I also said that I was a fan of the Senate being preserved, because in a number of cases, it corrects the things that come from the Chamber of Deputies, and it makes sense. However, in this context I must state, and I have already said that this law was preceded by complicated commentary proceedings with the Legislative Council of the Government. That it was discussed in the Chamber of Deputies in three committees and that the Senate's guarantee committee, which has a lot to say about this, the Committee on Economics, Agriculture and Transport, recommended the approval of this law. So the law was given great attention. I do not want to underestimate Mr. Senator's expertise, but on the other hand, dozens of people who have dealt with dozens of comments. About the administrative burden. It follows from what I also said, that law number 320 is not implemented in a number of institutions and municipalities. I'm impressed by who wants a dog beaten, who always finds a stick. And interest in the new law on governance and control of public finances is simply not here. The lack of transparency is needed here, the outdatedness of the law continues to be maintained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u7	Thank you, Minister. So we'll deal with the facts. Mrs Zelienková, then President Stanjura. In fact, the senator came forward, and then the rapporteur would come forward. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to be brief. The Ministry of Finance has submitted a law that does not address the problem of uncoordinated auditors and controls, which burden both the beneficiaries of the subsidy and the municipalities. The audit will continue to be audited, audited, and there will always be a different conclusion. The explanatory memorandum to the law promises simplification of controls, but at closer comparison none will disappear at all from the current situation. The number of checks is still the same. Another false information from the petitioner is that the European Directive on budgetary frameworks will be transposed with the law. This, too, is untrue. This Directive requires an independent audit of the SAO. And that doesn't really work out in that law. The directive also requires an internal control system, which we have had since we joined the European Union. Without it, we could not have joined the European Union at all. So the law doesn't solve this demand either. There are many other defects in the law that are irresistible, and unfortunately, when compared to the current law, the state of controls is not simplifying at all. On the contrary, he'll be even more inconspicuous. I will therefore also vote in favour of rejecting this law.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u9	Thank you, Madame. Now, with a point of fact, President Stanjura, then Senator Vystrčil. Please, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u10	Good afternoon. The Minister of Finance did not deal with the views, the facts, the Senator's arguments, except that he told us: many people were working on it. Well, the result is wrong! It doesn't matter how many people worked on it. Minister Pilný, as a Member of Parliament, has very often called from this place for us not to adopt unnecessary laws that bring further bureaucracy. And I assumed, and now I can see that naively, this is how he's going to proceed in a ministerial office. And I always say, when the new minister comes, there are two options. Either the Ministry starts listening to the minister, or the Ministry saddles the minister, and then he interprets the opinions of the clerk. Unfortunately, in this case, Minister, you've been saddled by the Ministry. Try to tell me, quite seriously, to me, Mr. Senator, to the rest of us, how this will work from January 1, 2018. Try telling the mayors that they may have, if it comes out in mid-September, by the end of September, change the internal audit system. The MP has already said so. It's not the implementation of the directive at all. If it were the way it was in the explanatory note, the law would be good. But the reason message is such a fairy tale for those who don't read the paragraphs. What is the simplification of the system, as the explanatory memorandum claims? Nothing. The opposite is true. How do we implement the European directive? Nothing. The opposite is true. Don't trust those officials so much, Minister. Try reading it, too, those sections. Unfortunately, you ran into them, and here you said, Mr. Senator, I don't know how you figured it out, but so many people worked on it, so honestly, in the commentary proceedings, three committees, one committee. It doesn't matter what the Senate Committee said. The Senate, as a chamber of Parliament, rejected this quite clearly. Instead of hearing arguments that would disprove the Senate's opinion, we only hear it repeatedly: for there was already so much work to do. But it's wrong. So it's much better if we keep the existing law that needs to be corrected and changed, I agree with that. But not like this, completely wrong. Only because he's ahead of the election, and the Minister wants to have a point that he made it. And look into your electoral program, even if you're not running! You're promising less bureaucracy! I'm laughing after four years, of course. But here's another piece of evidence that we're laughing legitimately when you promise to cut red tape.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Now, with a point of fact, Mr Senator, then Mr Martin Novotný.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u12	Thank you. Mr President, honourable Members, I have to be strong here because this is repeated, to speak up against one thing, and that is the fogging of the Ministry of Finance, which begins with a sentence: it is clear that laws must be observed. It's nonsense to write that in some kind of law. It's not like that, and that's not what I said. The problem is that Section 5 defines the objective of managing and controlling public finances. And the description of that objective states that it is to ensure effectiveness, efficiency and efficiency, and it is not written that compliance with legislation, transparency and proportionality is also to be ensured, which is the difference from the Financial Control Act 320 paragraph 4, where it is written that it is necessary to ensure, respectively. check compliance with legislation, protection of public funds against risks, timely and reliable information by management bodies and economic, efficient and efficient performance of public administration. [[16.50 hours]] So it's logical. That's the definition of a target. It is not a question of the fact that when something is not in this law, that the law is not to be followed. It's just a major misunderstanding. Respectfully, I don't believe this is a misunderstanding. I think it's deliberate mist and concealing the true state of things. And the second thing I forgot to say. I am convinced that this law, if it is adopted, puts the position of Finance Minister almost above the position of Prime Minister in terms of the possibility of controlling public finances and the ability to verify what, when, where and why.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u13	Thank you, Senator. Now, Mr Martin Novotný, with his point of fact, will be prepared by Mr Fiedler and Mr Kalousek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u14	Colleagues and colleagues, the potential consequences of increasing bureaucracy in the event of the adoption of this law here quite extensively and comprehensively described by the colleague Senator Vystrčil. However, I am convinced that this core, in quotation marks, the devil is hidden in another detail, in formulas that are just another example to me of the gradual process of limiting the role of self-government and elected authorities in our country. I have asked several times the representatives of the Ministry of Finance what the sentences mean that the control mechanism will be considered, for example. the need to be satisfied and the data demonstrating it. That's the typical bureaucratic view of the world. Colleagues, what is needed in the public domain and what data is proving it, are the subject of a political dispute. There is nothing more to politics than having different opinions about what public spending is needed to do. And to make it an objective control mechanism, where a person, even a different from the politician chosen, will judge something like this before a spending operation is carried out, after my trial, there is another fundamental restriction on the constitutional law of self-government in our country. Such sentences, such as. that the necessity of the operation is assessed to fulfil the task of the public budget administrator... The municipality is not an institution set up by a ministry, which should be designated in advance in some establishment charter, for what it serves, what tasks it has to perform. That is the political dispute, that is the political campaign that you will now implement, which is being implemented before every municipal election, and it can never be objectiveized. [[The President draws attention to the time]] The representatives of the Treasury never satisfied me with this, they always just said, "Let's stay out of it." I'm sure they will.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u15	There. Thank you. Mr Fiedler, with his point of view. President Kalousek has withdrawn his point of order and will be followed by Mr Votava with a factual remark. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u16	Mr President, you are on your own today, so let's see what happens in my case, but I will try to keep time.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u17	Good for you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u18	Colleagues have expressed their views on the professional part or on the professional content of the law. I thank the representative of the Senate, Mr Vystrčil, for the information that he has given us here comprehensively and very well, I think. I will address the time sequence of this law. Ever since we discussed this House press, I've noticed. So now, colleagues, let's see what the consequences of how the government and the ministry worked. I read from the explanatory memorandum: Partially transposed EU directive of 8 November 2011. First date. Second date: 27 January 2014 a formal notice was sent to the Czech Republic for non-compliance with the deadline of this transposition. The Ministry of Finance, as a gesturer of this law, is obliged to submit a proposal for legislation as soon as possible. That was January 2014. In December ejhle, it arrived at the Chamber of Deputies. Almost three years later. That's how the Treasury works. And then we witnessed the classic - we're pushing the deadline, we have to accept it, fast, first reading March 2017, second reading June 2017, third reading I mean July 2017. Hurry up. And the consequences of this - as was often liked to be said - are here on the table. It's just a time summary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u19	I thank you for your exemplary adherence to time. Mr Votava is now making a point of fact. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Colleagues, colleagues, I wouldn't stone Minister Pilný here like some. He basically came to this after this law was here and discussed in the House. I don't mean to say he came to it blind to the violins, I don't think so. I'm not his lawyer, not at all, but it's fair to say. He's defending the Ministry of Finance's position. I get it. I, too, initially voted in favour of this law. However, after he started discussing in the Senate - and I think there was a really wide debate in the Senate - I also met with a number of experts who are moving in this area - I will admit that I am not quite moving in it - and I have come to the impression that this - and it is my position - law is not really the right nut. I mean, I won't be actively opposed to rejecting this law. I think it would really - and now I mean the municipalities, and I've talked to a lot of mayors - that it would cause them quite a lot of problems, especially when efficiency should be from 1. 1. 2018. I also took that into consideration and considered my position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a point of fact, Mr. Marek Benda? Yes. Just a moment, Mr rapporteur. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u22	Dear Vice-President, Dear Ministers, Mr Senator, Ladies and Gentlemen, I will also be quite brief. But I have also received a number of documents in my hand in the last 14 days that point to the issue of this law. In addition to what has already been said about small municipalities and small entities, I am just pointing out - and again, I am not blaming anyone, it is like a natural official attempt that there is an extraordinary strengthening of the Ministry of Finance at the expense of all other government offices, including the Office of the Government. Suddenly, the Ministry of Finance becomes the supreme auditor over all the others and the only one who will decide whether to be right or wrong. I think it's very dangerous. We are already in a situation today that the Finance Minister is, like, standing somewhere completely outside of other ministers, and now it doesn't matter how hard. Although we have now experienced in several governments that this was a problem because they were extremely strong finance ministers. But it doesn't just matter how strong the finance minister is, but that he has really gotten into a position where he is not only the determining agent for others, and he is not the government as a whole, he is not the prime minister, but he is the finance minister, but he is supposed to be relatively innocent by this law, even in the position of the one who will determine who has spent it correctly or incorrectly. I consider it quite dangerous even in terms of the general theory of governance and the division of power within that government. And I think that this too would need to be considered before the Act on the Management and Control of Public Finance was adopted. That is why I recommend that we do not approve the bill and leave it for the next parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u23	Excellent. Perfectly accurate two minutes. Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And with a factual remark, President Miroslav Kalousek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u24	I'm sorry. I've already volunteered when Mr. Senator Vystrčil Spelled that competence, and then I pulled it off. Now that Mr Benda has taken the lead, I do want to make a comment. I agree with 95 percent of what the senator said here, and I also do not want this law to be passed. But as far as the competence of the Treasury is concerned with the central audit, we simply can't do anything about it, colleagues. By 2012, the ministry had only a methodology and audit performance for individual programmes, either in the management or in the ministries. The European Commission's clear request that this should be centralized in the Ministry of Finance was one of the five conditions to restore the drawback. It has its logic, because the Treasury is the only one that doesn't draw money, it's not the manager of any operational program. I wasn't happy at the time either, and it was obvious that, in a normal situation, this strengthening of the Ministry of Finance's power would not have passed through any coalition government, but I stress that it was a clear request and there was nothing to be done, and all the coalition partners with great reluctance gave me the competence. It's hard to imagine how until we draw on any operational programs, it's gonna be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u25	Good afternoon. Thank you to President Kalousek. If there is no factual point, with priority rights, the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Jan Klán. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u26	Thank you for the floor. Good afternoon, Mr. Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Senator. The funny thing is, I should have talked at the very beginning. I'm probably talking at the very end. But that doesn't bother me, because at least I was able to hear various factual remarks and, in particular, the appearance of the senator. Now I don't really know how to start. I will begin by saying that the amendments that I tabled here in the Chamber of Deputies, when this law was being discussed, were not approved by either of them. Not one! I have to ask why neither one of them has been approved. For example, I proposed effectiveness in Section 47; I have the amendments here to change the date to 1 January 2019. [[shows papers in hand]] And you guys are wondering what's going on here tonight, that it's just that suddenly you don't even know what's going on. I got it right here. And I even read the justification here, and I'm going to read it here again, so you know, because I've read the law differently from... I don't know if the Minister has read it, because when I see that he's still in a browser, I don't know if he's a little bit of a study of the law, if it really isn't official in power, which I would feel very sorry for, because somehow he should sort of compare it, as President Stanjura said here. So I'm going to read the justification here that I was proposing to change efficiency. The law substantially changes the requirements for control systems in public administration, which have been created 15 years since the effectiveness of the previous law. Not only does it change terminology but it also introduces new elements such as the role of verifier and evaluator. Several implementing decrees are to be issued to the law. In the explanatory memorandum, Section 4, the Ministry of Finance claims that it will prepare an explanation campaign in the form of methodological aids and model guidelines. It is therefore necessary that the public authorities become familiar with all the implementing rules and methodological guidelines and then start to change their control system from the ground up. In addition, there are many problems in the bill. For example, unclear provisions on the internal audit process carried out by the set-up staff in subordinate organisations, qualification rules and tests of internal auditors, the creation of an audit committee without setting up a law on their activities, which I think is completely trivial. The Ministry of Finance can be expected to clarify at least part of the problems when developing methodological guidelines, or it will be time to issue an amendment to the law. But that's just completely misguided, because when I know the law has been preparing for quite a while, if I'm not mistaken, since 2014 - we have 2017. When the comment proceedings were made, I will read you exactly what was in here, because I was already putting it in the context of the register of contracts, because it is an ex post check, and this law on the management and control of public finances is an ex ante control, which is ahead, and we are missing it. But the Treasury just made it a complete mess. I draw attention to the fact that the Ministry of Finance in the new law waives the right to control the recipients of subsidies from various ministries, so that it cannot, for example, check the subsidies for sport granted to the body associations. That, ladies and gentlemen, is also necessary to emphasise. In the application of the Act, the explanatory memorandum, which in several places does not comply with the text of the draft law, also refers to the non-existent § 51 of the draft law or the law on electronic signature. Along with the problematic text of the bill, its technical and grammatical errors, as further stated, are evidence of sloppy preparation. As I said before, I even tried to correct the grammatical mistakes, but nothing came through here, which I find trivial. For this reason I abstained from voting, because as you want, when the law comes out in the Collection of Laws now in the autumn, as you want it to 1. 1. 2018 were the checks carried out accordingly? You can't make it. I don't know if the Minister of Finance has ever been to the village, or if he's been there, it's just impossible to make it. That's a completely paradox. And if we look at the different controls, the duplications, the triplicity, it's interesting, and I've said it once before that we're gonna be able to control ourselves to death with everything. It's all ex post controls, still after the process. But an ex ante check, which is precisely this control, this law, so we're missing it. But we've been missing him for many years, I'll say 15 years. We just miss it. And then we waited for the European regulation to be implemented there, and ultimately it is not implemented there de facto. So I don't know what to think about all this anymore. In my opinion, but not only in my opinion, because I have also heard opinions here from colleagues and colleagues, it simply cannot be done by 1. 1. 2018. And, hey, all of a sudden, there's a rumor going around that the law might not even pass. I don't blame you. I really don't blame you, because if not one of my amendments went through, which at least partially corrected the mistakes, it wouldn't go away at all. But paradoxically, I wonder why you didn't vote for it when we put the arguments on the table here. I think it's just all messed up. Even if the law is of course necessary and necessary, because if we allocate the resources wrong at the beginning, then the checks that are ex post at the end will not help us, because either we return the money or we pay it somehow, or I don't know if anyone's going to jail for any of the stuff. This law really needs to be approved, but not in this form. I'd say he's kind of a runt. It's something unfinished. It's done not even in a hurry, but it's more like it's sloppy in some way. It's just that no one's read it much. There was a commentary procedure. Then we bailed on the whole thing. And then, look, the end of the term is coming up, and quickly, quickly, we have to approve it so that it passes, God forbid, if the European Union starts pulling on us again, if we say that the Czech Republic did not approve the regulation of the European Union. Well, what would happen then? There are several laws like that. I've noticed that for this term of office. Every time we didn't know what to do with the law, we put a directive in it, or we put a treaty in it, or regulation in it, so that we could push it here as quickly as possible, i.e. a government coalition, but without any thought, and even an impact on society, virtually. to the public administration as a whole. Didn't anybody at the Treasury Department figure that out? I'm afraid it really didn't come to that. Now I'm gonna take a look. [[He's showing the papers in his hand again.]] When the law developed in some way in the commentary process, I said here sometime in 2015, when the contract register was being discussed that we were missing the exact ex ante check. In this comparison the register of contracts is actually ex post control, control of public finances is ex ante control, so we must be sure in advance that the management of public resources is consistent with the principles of efficiency, efficiency and efficiency in particular. Back then, it was Section 6. Today it's Section 5. [[17.10 hours]] So there was some change, but when it was in the interim review procedure in 2015, it was § 6 para. 1 read: "The aim of internal management and control is to protect public funds and ensure that they are handled effectively, economically and efficiently.' The law further stated at the time: "The public budget administrator, public body and beneficiaries of public financial support are obliged to prevent acts contrary to the objective of internal management and control.". In Article 16 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the following definitions shall apply: "The preliminary assessment referred to in paragraph 1 shall include an assessment: (a) where necessary to be satisfied and the data demonstrating it; (b) possible options for meeting the needs in relation to the objectives of management and control of public finances; (c) expected results and impacts. Here, ladies and gentlemen, please note that the preliminary assessment, or ex ante analysis, or preliminary control, or also called an ex ante audit, checks the link to the need. The need in this case is to satisfy the social demand to be met in the public interest. It is therefore examined in the criterion of effectiveness. I don't know what happened at the Treasury Department that this is the kind of pasquil that is now rejected by the Senate, and I don't blame you, because those mayors must be terrified of it. When I also dealt with the mayors, they begged me not to accept the law at all, because not that bureaucracy would grow - the word bureaucracy is a little bit as simple, as an office - but it would grow disproportionately into paperwork. There's gonna be so much paperwork that the mayor's gonna be so overwhelmed that I'm worried that no one's gonna want to do the mayor anymore. Just because this makes it harder. And that law is really gonna make it harder! I'm saying I don't have a problem with the analysis or some kind of ex ante check, but let's do it properly, please. And the Ministry of Finance, in my opinion, has been completely sloppy! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u27	Thank you. Two factual points. First of all, Mr. Vilímec, after him, Mr. MP... [[Messenger. Vílíc changes his application to proper.]] Properly. First of all, Mr Novotný, after him properly, Mr Vilímec.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u28	Colleagues and colleagues, I will try the most human language possible. There's a lot of mayors sitting here, current or ex-boyfriends. Those of us who did it, so we had some economic unions or financial unions, depending on what village it's called. It's very feminised mostly, it's hard to get a guy to work there for the money. And now imagine that those women, in the best sense of the word, are the commanding officers of the operation and the final authorising officer. Approval of actions decided by the municipal council or the council according to different levels and volumes of budgetary expenditure. At the moment, these verifiers are to assess the necessity of the operation to fulfil the task of the public budget administrator or public body. How are they gonna do that? So they put in front of them a programming statement from the council of the village, a city where the political parties say that the pavement needs to be fixed. And what if they even put in a statement by an opposition entity that says it's the stupidest possible expense and that there's something else to be done? I can't imagine those accountant ladies filling this section. It'll either be completely formal or someone will take advantage of it and make it a big political game. A simple example of life. I intensively imagine my former head of the economic department assessing whether the decision of the city's council on one or another, for example in a 100-million-dollar investment, is consistent with what the community is supposed to do, and even though the opposition is telling her that it is absolutely wrong and that it is a crime to do so, and the coalition says that it is right. This is what we want her to do now, these people! It is an absolute denial of the logic of the functioning of self-government. The Treasury people say, but that's not what they're gonna do. But the sentence in the law says they should do it. Are we supposed to take that line seriously, or isn't she there? Or should we take seriously the assurance of the Treasury's representatives that they will only formally judge it? I just don't believe it, and that's why I can't vote for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u29	Thank you, my colleague. And the Minister with a point of order. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u30	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this law has been discussed for a long time in the Legislative Council of the Government, there have been dozens of comments. I suppose, or I'm sure, a whole series of comments that are being made here now that the Senate has given it back to us have just been discussed. She was discussed by experts, she was discussed in three committees of the Chamber of Deputies, she was discussed in the Senate Committee. I'm very sorry it wasn't until the Senate gave it back to us that we were going back to the comments. The Government's Legislative Council isn't here. The comments that were made were dozens of them, here we would have to renegotiate. As Minister of Finance, I feel full responsibility for the law because I'm in office. It does not matter whether I was his author or whether I was - which I was not - in committee because I am not the Minister of Finance, but I feel responsible for him, and if the Chamber of Deputies now, after many months, has come to the fact that the law has fundamental flaws, there is no point in returning to any comments that have already been refuted by the Government's Legislative Council. [[I wasn't?]] If there is simply no consensus in the Chamber of Deputies to adopt the law, which has been discussed very closely, then there is no point in us drowning in the details here. So let's vote and another House or another government will bring a ninth attempt to change this law, because that necessity really is here. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u31	Thank you, Minister. Mr Vilímec with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u32	Mr Vice-President, I will not prolong this. I read a detailed discussion in the Senate which was about this law and the amendment law. Indeed, the Senate dealt in detail with plenary proposals for these laws. I must say that here in the Chamber of Deputies, and I simply have to say, these laws, at least in plenary, have not been given the political and factual attention they seem to deserve. Of course, it was discussed in the committees, but the debate in plenary was not that pronounced. I have personally met with several working versions of this draft as Chairman of the Financial Commission of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, and I have been getting acquainted as they were mentioned from the point of view of the Union of Cities and Municipalities, so I will now rather look at it from the perspective of the communal sphere. Although it is appropriate to state, and this has not been said here, that the latest government version - and the latter was several - presented to the Chamber of Deputies is certainly more acceptable from the point of view of the municipalities than the original versions, so many things of this proposal, and here it has been remembered, will certainly do, if the proposal had been approved, problems and strive for its approval at any price at the end of the parliamentary term would not have paid off in my opinion. I am also saying this from the point of view that I have personally made some changes to the committees or to the Committee on Budgets, even those which partly correct the errors and inaccuracies laid down in the amendment to the Act on budgetary rules for territorial budgets, which was adopted in connection with budgetary responsibility. From this point of view, I regret that when the law falls, these things that need to be corrected will not be corrected. But I understand most of the senators' arguments. This law, of course, does not remove any duplications of external controls, it is actually a kind of internal audit law, and in some cases even after many changes - and there were a lot of comments, and here I do not need to be a lawyer of the Ministry of Finance, I do not think that the Ministry of Finance's staff would have taken it in a way that was rejected - but even after these changes, the shape of the law is not satisfactory. [[17.20 hours]] It has already been mentioned here, Mr Novotný here spoke of the question of status, competence of evaluators, approvers and verifiers. Indeed - and I consider this to be a cardinal question - should these people, for example, examine the so-called effectiveness, the effectiveness of the spending operation, irrespective of the decision of the competent authority or the legitimacy of the decisions taken in terms of competences and the budget approved? That is the fundamental question, whether the verifier or the accounting officer can change the decision of the competent authority in any way, whether it's the board or the council. A great deal of attention has indeed been paid to this central topic on the Land of the Union of Towns and Municipalities, and after a comprehensive discussion with the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Vyhnánek has not been brought into this matter. I understand that the Deputy Director, and it has also been remembered here, although not personally he has been leaning towards a more free interpretation, but he may not stand up to the text of the bill. I don't really want to go into detail here. Only the original ambitious idea that this law would eliminate control duplication has not been fulfilled and could not be fulfilled. Rather, I perceived the law as a battering ram that was used to enforce the extension of the powers of the Supreme Audit Office. I don't really want to go into the details. The resulting shape of this law after several years of preparation - and I appreciate, say, the work of the employees and the Ministry of Finance, but the shape is not satisfactory. Textually, the law is certainly much more complicated than the existing law on financial control in public administration, regardless of the impact it would have on personnel, larger entities will at the moment find it difficult to find auditors with prescribed education and practice. It turns out that the ambition to introduce a brand new law was a very high ambition. In my opinion, it was better to implement a simpler amendment to the current control law. For this reason, despite the House's approval of the amendments I tabled at third reading, I will support the Senate's position on rejecting the bill for the reasons I have spoken about.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u33	I thank Mr Vilímc. That was the last one entered into the debate so far. I'm asking if anyone else is joining the debate. In the event of no one reporting, I am done with the debate. I'm asking the final words - Mr. Senator? Please, Senator, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u34	Mr President, honourable Members, in conclusion, I would just like to reiterate that I have interpreted the Senate's absolutely majority position here, asking you, perhaps even asking you to actually take into account that the law contains a large number of shortcomings, whether it concerns the incorrectness or incompleteness of the definition of the objectives of financial control and the management of public finances or internal audit, so it evokes and would cause a further increase in bureaucracy and would very much overlook the systems already under way, as many times very illogical or nonsense changes even the names that have already been implemented. I agree that the current law of 2001 on financial control is not perfect and is also causing problems, but I do not think it would be right for us to replace it with an even worse law. So much for me. So please, or I would like to call on you to support the Senate's motion to reject this law, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-005-005.u35	Thank you, Mr. Senator. I ask about the final words of the rapporteurs - Mr Koníček, Mr Laudát or Mr Klán. Not interested. We shall therefore proceed to the vote pursuant to Paragraph 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 3 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. I'll call our colleagues from the lobby. The agreement of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the agreement of 101 Members, is needed in order to adopt the following resolution. Please set the necessary number of votes. I will make a motion for a resolution: 'The Chamber of Deputies approves the draft law on the management and control of public finances under the House's 1001/7 press.' I am opening the vote on this proposal. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 19. 154 Members and Members are enrolled, for 52, against 39. The motion was not accepted. I thank the senator and the rapporteurs, and I conclude the discussion of this bill. Another bill is
