ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u1	53. Government bill amending Act No. 100/2001 Coll., on Environmental Impact Assessment and Amendment of Certain Related Acts (the Environmental Impact Assessment Act), as amended /German Press 1003/ - First Reading On behalf of the Government, the proposal submitted by the Environment Minister Richard Brabec. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two reasons for putting this point forward. One is the transposition of the relevant European directive. The deadline for transposition expires on 16 May 2017. The other, no less important reason, and I dare even say that for many of us even more important, is that we have used this transposition as a means of putting some additional, simplistic and accelerating, say, institutes or points that should lead and definitely lead to a reduction in the procedure. As I have already said, and we all remember that the implementation of the correct and timely transposition of the EIA directive, with which the Czech Republic has had a lot of problems in recent years, is therefore the duty of the Czech Republic arising from European law and is, for example, one of the basic conditions for drawing European funds, not only from the Operational Programme Environment, but basically from all programmes. The correct and timely implementation of the transposition can also endanger, and we have already been clearly told that, of course, the approval and financing of the nine priority transport projects that have been negotiated with the European Commission and where, as I am happy to inform, seven of these projects have already been approved by the so-called replacement EIA in large quotation marks, that is, a binding opinion, and for the two projects remaining, this opinion should be issued in the next few days. The subject of the amendment is, as I have already said, the transposition of the requirements of the revision of the directive, as well as a number of other amendments aimed at reducing the administrative burden on both administrations and investors, by simplifying and shortening a number of deadlines and conditions, as well as narrowing the scope of the projects under consideration. I'll only choose the most important ones from them. It is therefore proposed to establish a circle of so-called follow-up proceedings directly in the text of the law itself, which should result in greater legal certainty for investors and administrations. There is a fundamental change in the concept of so-called sublime intentions. For information only, subliminal projects, i.e. those below category two values, are assessed in the Czech Republic approximately 2,000 per year and only 300 of them, which are decided within most regional authorities to proceed to further assessment, into the detection procedure. Newly, only 300 of these 2,000 projects should be considered. So 1,700 sublime projects will not be newly assessed under the Environmental Impact Assessment Act. [[11.10 hours]] It is also proposed to amend the legislation on exemptions from the EIA process, which will be decided solely by the government, on the basis of criteria. The possibility of the public and the authorities concerned to comment on the opinion is also interrupted and therefore the EIA process is reduced by a time limit for these observations plus other related deadlines, which means that the overall reduction in the EIA process as a result of this adjustment is about 50 days, for more complex projects and more. It is also proposed to amend the concept of the validity of the EIA opinion, where the basic period of validity is extended from the current five years to seven years, with an extension of the EIA opinion being checked whether it is still up to date in terms of changes in the territory and, where appropriate, in the project. There is, of course, an opportunity for an extension, which would be another five years, so it can be said, in principle, that the EIA's position can be extended by at least seven plus five years and will thus be valid as standard, i.e. 12 years, with my firm conviction that within this period of 12 years, the Czech Republic, too, will be able to complete, terminate and, of course, start further follow-up procedures. They also adjust and tighten the conditions for granting and extending, as well as removing so-called authorizations for the processing of documentation, opinions and evaluation, with the aim of increasing the expertise of authorized persons and the quality of their documents. There are also partial adjustments to the SEA process and last but not least, and this is important, there is also a complete revision of the so-called Annex No. 1 which contains specific projects considered, and it occurs that projects from categories are shifted from the strictest, where the whole EIA process is carried out automatically, up to category 4, where the process is not carried out at all. So there will be a new number of categories of project assessments where they will not be assessed under the EIA law at all, or they will fall into, say, an easier category of assessment, which will also mean simplifying and shortening the assessment, and thus building procedures. This point has been intensively discussed for a very long time, of course, also in the context of inter-ministerial commentary proceedings, the vast majority of contradictions have been resolved in the inter-reort, the rest then in the government. You are well aware that there are also certain changes in the EIA law within the framework of the construction law, and therefore I am very pleased that the transposition amendment also comes into the first reading and will be able to go quickly to committees to be judged together with the construction law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u3	Thank you, too. I ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading of Mr Václav Zemek. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will follow up on my intelligence report. As has already been said, the proposed amendment responds to the amendment to the European Environmental Impact Assessment Directives, so it is mostly a transposition amendment, where the vast majority of minor changes, which are about 123, are different specifications, new terminology, more precise names. And then, of course, there are some fundamental changes that simplify the current situation. I know that some colleagues, when they hear the word EIA, or the connection of EIA, they're gonna get smarter and they're gonna feel some kind of betrayal or something. But here I think it's exactly the other way around. From the fundamental new changes that I see positively, I would like to point out here the simplification of Annex 1, where there is a list of both limit projects and subliminal projects, that is, for the first group of those where the EIA process actually has to take place, for the second group where the investigation procedure is taking place, and especially for the group of subliminal projects, there is a significant simplification and reduction of the scope of the projects. There can be a border where the intention falls into the category of sublime, now there is a limit of 25 per cent, which has not yet been done. So here I see a certain simplification and positive for various investors and various intentions. Another positive change is that when an administrative authority provides an independent opinion which is actually intended to assess the current course of the EIA process and various comments and, of course, the study presented by the notifier, so far this independent study has been subject to public consultation. In the context of simplifying the process, this is deleted from the discussion, and it is logical, because it is actually an expert opinion that is being processed by an authorized person and which, of course, is not part of the documentation of the petitioner. Even in the law it is set aside that the person processing the expert opinion must in no way participate in the processing of the EIA study submitted by the notifier. Another, and I see this as tightening up, is that it is actually being introduced newly, that some projects must also be assessed in terms of impacts on climate and climate protection. There is also some tightening up where European sites and impacts on human health are taken into account, but I think that is correct. And then, of course, there's a lot of other minor modifications. I think that then it will be discussed in detail on the committees, and, if there is any question, we can continue to discuss it. I think I mentioned some crucial points here. If I forget anything, I'll get back to it, but at this point, it's all on my side. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u5	Thank you, too, rapporteur. I open a general debate in which I register two applications. Mr Zahradník will be the first to speak, Mr Klán will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u6	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, whenever the Environmental Impact Assessment Act, the EIA Act, is being amended, we should be very vigilant in spite of the assurance of both the Minister and the rapporteur, and we should activate the ancient warning "citizens, guard your life and property, Parliament is sitting'. The previous attempt, I do not wish to make a negative comment on the formal attempt to straighten things up on nine projects, which amended the Act on Impact Assessment and whose outcome today in our legal order has the number of Act 39, on Impact Assessment, has brought a whole range of conceptual problems that are perceived very negatively by both our public and the professional public. A whole series of projects is blocked, we are very hard to get the projects at least the most important to return to the game. For a number of projects that have already been approved by the EIA, we will have to let the EIA do it again. The professional public blames, mainly the entrepreneurs in the construction sector, the Ministry, that it does not completely solve the conceptual problems that the previous amendment has caused. They even argue that there is no proper discussion at expert level. They accuse the bill that it does not fully address the possibilities of shortening the time limits that hinder the EIA process and, in the follow-up procedure, it also hinders the process of issuing territorial decisions and building permits. We've got complaints about how to process the regulatory impact assessment, that's RIA, just like it was done. [[11.20 hours]] We still have to bear in mind that even though we are the pressure of the House on the government and the efforts of the government itself, I have to admit, they have pushed through nine projects that can be built today, so there are still 94 projects left that the EIA had and that they will have to do again under new conditions of the EIA. And finally, the next thing I know, I have one more thing to fail to conclude. The amendment of the construction law is being implemented in parallel with this amendment. This is the law that we are all waiting for, which has been mentioned many times here in the House, which Minister Šlechtová brings to the House and which has about 200 amendments. It also opens the EIA Act. And in contrast to this amendment, there is an effort to amend something that is very important to the law, and that is precisely the definition of the influence of so-called. the public concerned. We don't get to do this here in this amendment, but in the amendment to the Building Act, in the part devoted to the Act on Impact Assessment, this attempt is being made. There is an effort to increase the number of signatures under the charter defined by an ad hoc civic association resulting from a project in question from 200 signatures to 500 signatures. It is at least an attempt to limit, regulate or mitigate the absolutely impenetrable power of the public concerned, i.e. environmental activists. There are reservations that I know well. There was a seminar on the amendment to the Construction Act, where Mr Vondrouš of the Green Circle, representing environmental organisations, was very pleased to speak to me on this issue. He said that the 500 signatures are a lot, that it will be a problem for the public to be able to participate in the process of expressing their intention to participate in the project from where the project is to be implemented. I immediately noted this as a very important positive step, because so far, environmentalists have insisted that associations get involved from anywhere. For example, so that the civic association from Brno can speak into the intention in southern Bohemia. And I was paying very good attention, and I was immediately expressing myself. In my opinion, I would see a certain handshake from environmentalists in this. So let us try to look for a solution to this problem in the second reading process, i.e. in the drafting of amendments, to stress more that those who protest against the intention do not just do so for some ideological reason. That it's not just some bully lawsuit, but that it's really a lawsuit for people who live in the territory and want to express their good conscience. And here I expect environmentalists, environmental organisations to be at least neutral in this effort, if I don't want to say helpful. I would also like to appreciate the fact that a seminar was held on this law, which was held by the Ministry about a week or two ago, where there was no such participation of the professional public as the seminar on the construction law could have boasted, but yet the seminar was held. And there was an interesting thing that was mentioned, namely that the institute of the ad hoc civil association created within the public concerned, having 200 signatures without defining the time frame, from anywhere, unverified, is essentially not being used very much. That's how the Minister told me at the time that if anyone complains, they're historic civil associations that have three years of history. Rainbow, South Bohemia mothers, Children of Earth and I don't know who else is doing their business in this process in an attempt to prevent construction in the public interest. So I'm just declaring here that I'm going to try to find a way to define the paragraph of the paragraph that defines the public just ad hoc, but also the public that defines itself using a certain three-year history to further stress its locality. So, ladies and gentlemen, I will recommend to my colleagues from ODS that we support the procedure for second reading, and I am already saying that I will try very hard to clarify the role of the public concerned by the amendment, so that not only does it have immeasurable broad powers, but that it also has the appropriate responsibility to do so. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u7	Thank you, too. Mr Jan Klán will now be speaking in the debate. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Government, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Zahradník here has already said many of the things that I wanted to discuss here in my debate. I welcome what he said here, which is a problem with the public concerned, environmental movements and activists, that there is a need to introduce local competence or jurisdiction in some way. Because it is not possible to go to any constructions that take place e.g. Just as he said, in southern Bohemia, someone from the other end of the republic spoke. Organisations are required to make their views known locally. I don't have a problem with that, because maybe they understand it best. But in order to block construction, it's going to cost us a lot. And I wouldn't mind letting them pay for it, because it really bothers me sometimes that someone's gonna block it, then the EIA stretches out for a lot, many years, or in some way it's blocked, and then there's extra expenses. So I welcome Mr. Zahradník's initiative to work on this in some way. At the same time, I regret that Minister Šlechtová is not here because this law has a relatively close connection with the construction law. She should be here in my opinion. But I'm not going to give the procedural proposal, because I don't want to block the EIA because there's a need to work on the directive. However, it is really worth considering that next time the Minister is here to discuss this bill in person and can also comment on it, because the implications are there. I would then like to know how it will be connected to the construction law when it is here at first reading and the construction law is now in the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. I was extremely appalled when almost 200 amendments appeared. I understand that the construction law needs to be done properly, new, but there are so many affected actors, so many amendments that we are literally lost in it. We're losing it, and it's going to be quite difficult for the committee to say it all, sometime on February 8th. I'm sure there might be a motion for a break and that sort of thing to connect with this law. Because there's really all these different things that are connected. Since this is also the case with the economy and the various impacts of buildings, for example, on the environment, such as motorways, I will also propose in the debate that this press should also instruct the economic committee to also comment on this, as it is connected with the construction law, so should the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development. That's worth considering, because the connection is here. It's clear here. [[11.30 hours]] What I wanted to do here is, of course, welcome the reduction in the administrative burden. Somehow, it needs to be done. It is also a step in the right direction, because I think the five years are not enough, and then what happens is that we find that the EIA has moved to a different place, into nullity, and we must either ask for an exemption from the European Union, or in some way do it differently, that we will make a new EIA, and it costs us a lot of money, and that is why we are wasting it. So it's definitely a step in the right direction. That would be basically all I wanted to say about it in a nutshell. Of course, I look forward to discussing this actually EU directive on committees. I'll ask you some more questions. And I welcome the efforts of Mr Zahradník in some way to bring the very environmental movements into the process and increase their responsibilities. Because maybe she's deliberately blocking the approval of the thing. So increase their responsibility to the EIA and other things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u9	Thank you, too. The rapporteur shall make a factual comment. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u10	Thank you for the floor. Maybe I'll give a little more detail to the issue of the civic association that's been chewed up here. It is more related to the Nature and Landscape Conservation Act No. 114/1992 Coll., and not here with the EIA. In fact, the idea of the participation of civil associations in administrative proceedings, the primary one, the creator of the law, was to enable the public to participate in these administrative procedures, both through municipalities and through civil associations. But we're discussing the Impact Assessment Act here today, and I think the issue is a little off. The civic associations, where the participation is really provided by Act No. 114, not by law 100, on impact assessment. Otherwise, of course, in order to be right or wrong, the EIA is not a building permit. It is, in fact, a process of assessing the impact it has on the environment or the impact it can have on the environment. And the result is the opinion of the competent authority, either the construction has a negative effect or it doesn't. So it's not a construction permit. That's why there's a little bit of a fabulation that civil associations are blocking the EIA process. That's not exactly right. Although I also understand Mr Zahradník's objections that there are some dedicated civil associations that have national competence, have five members and then block - in administrative proceedings, not in the EIA process - sometimes legitimately, sometimes improperly, various constructions. Of course, there we could focus on this issue, but I think not this amendment. It's about something a little different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u11	Thank you, too. The Minister shall be given priority rights. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I would like to respond quickly to a few things that have fallen here from both Mr. Zahradník and Mr. Klán. I'll give you some interesting numbers. I think you might be as shocked as I was. 'Cause I really didn't expect it to be that bad. You remember that we were here during negotiations, or in debates within 39/2015, the amendments, and then we talked a lot about the number of signatures, whether 200 or 500, whether verified or unverified or what. And those debates are now, and they are in those amendments to the construction law. We, thanks to the seminar that we made for this novel, where we actually had such a theme, let's now get an overview of how many times this institute was used, so we did, we downloaded from all the regional authorities and our workplaces, from the so-called. OVSS, i.e. the Departments of Public Administration, for the period 1. 4. 2015 to 17. 1. 2017, i.e. since the 39/2015 entry into force, we have downloaded statistics issued by the so-called negative findings of the detection procedure, i.e. plans, when it is not subject to further assessment. And we found that, in total, these negative conclusions were issued 1 050, 15 of them were attacked by an admissible appeal, i.e. about 1%, or something more than 1 % - only. The number of cases where the established association, which existed for three or more years, was 14. And be careful, from that I can easily subtract information, even for me shocking that the number of cases in almost two years when the signing document was used to appeal against the conclusion of the investigation procedure was, ladies and gentlemen, one. One out of 1,050! Which, if I recall correctly, is probably one. So one day, the signing institute was used. And here we can clearly see that debating whether 200 or 500 signatures is a bit of a shooting at a target other than what you've all probably planned or opposed. I understand. And a few more things that have fallen. It was said that the amendment 39/2015 brought a number of conceptual problems, blocked projects. I can tell you with full responsibility that when we went into the analysis of the nine buildings and the dozens of other buildings according to 244, and we were happy to hear it at the tripartite, and it was also said at the seminar - by the way, the big tripartite, where representatives are also, for example, the Building Union, the Chamber of Commerce, the Confederation of Industry and others - so it was clearly said that the EIA was not the narrow place, and that it is basically no longer stopping any intention, because the vast majority of those projects, which had the old EIA, where the exemption could not be negotiated, are also intentions, which of the large, let's say, huge number of cases do not have purchased land and have not completed preparation. So, the EIA. And if it was done today, the new EIA, it couldn't be continued anyway. So that's one conclusion. And, by the way, colleagues, we have quietly issued hundreds of valid binding opinions on projects under Law 100/2001 and passed without the attention of the public, because it is completely unconflict, no one has appealed against it and the preparation of these buildings continues. Last two notes. Local jurisdiction. Yes, from the logic of things and from common sense, you're right. Indeed, local jurisdiction is also a matter that would seem elementary to me, but it is not just a subject, or a reminder from the European Commission, which prevents us from discussing it too much, but it is also a case-law. And I'd be happy to show you the judicatures. It is the caselaw of the European Court of Justice, which has repeatedly judged that local jurisdiction is impossible - to determine. Even Germany lost in this dispute. Even strong Germany, as a net payer of the European Union, lost in a dispute concerning local jurisdiction. There's a few of those judicatures. So it is very difficult to ask for an exception at this point, at a time when this matter is repeatedly being tried by the European Court of Justice. And the last point - the connection to the construction law. To my colleague Klán through you. You're absolutely right, Mr. Colleague, that's why we're glad it's heading to the committees right now, I hope this hearing will be quick. We have an agreement with our colleagues, and it will certainly be our attempt to reach an agreement with the various club members, that the things that can possibly be disemboweled from the construction law and put them in the very transposition amendment, so we would like to take advantage of that. So it's being prepared so that we don't get two standards going, because of course there can't be any such contradiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u13	Thank you, too. I'm recording three factual points. Mr Stanjura will appear first, Mr Zahradník will prepare. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u14	Really, just three short notes. Minister, I listened well to you. You said 1 015 negative opinions and one appeal. But those who oppose the construction challenge positive positions. When they're negative, they actually get their way and they're happy. So just to clarify, if I got it right, because you said 1 015 negative, one of those times a signed document was used. That means they were trying to make it positive when they apparently filed an appeal against the negative. I'm more interested in the opposite statistics. Second point. I heard again: the European Commission does not allow us, even if it is a peasant... What did you, the Ministry, or our government do to change the rules at European level, and not keep listening to "someone ordering us"? We're a full member. We have a chance to make proposals to change the rules if we do not consider them logical and correct. If we used them at least once in the EIA area, or we didn't officially submit anything, and we're always complaining about Brussels, so that someone would go running there to complain when there's a law that happens to apply to him. [[11.40 hours]] And the third thing. You said nine buildings got an exception. But those buildings were supposed to be exempted by ten. The Minister knows very well what I'm talking about. Extended Rudná, key construction in the Moravian-Silesian Region. We're still at the same point we were at before the novel was adopted. I have repeatedly asked you, by order of the government, for example, to use the law for the tenth construction. You yourself have promised me that all ten buildings will be there before this law is discussed. There were dozens of us, so we all know that. And the Department of Transport - and that's why I'm saying it's not your job - for incomprehensible reasons, decided not to put the tenth building there. They said the reason was not to put the nine at risk. Okay, well, I can understand that it's not in one government order. But why haven't you already issued a second government order to have the tenth building there, according to the explanatory report?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u15	Thank you. Mr Jan Zahradník will now appear and prepare Mr Josef Uhlík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u16	Mr Vice-President, I would like to comment on what the Minister said. So if the frequency of filing ad hoc civil associations having 200 signatures is so low, actually one pardon can be said, why not consider the idea in some way in the law to specify this institute more precisely, why to hold it there in this form, why to hold this thing there, and whether to think about replacing it with an otherwise defined institute, which would also give citizens the opportunity to express themselves without being members of any historical environmental organisation that would be more precisely bound by their complaining capacity to the place in which the intention is being implemented. So here I would just like to point out that maybe even the ministry's professional capacity could be helpful if some of us who cared about it could get in touch with some of your experts and try to figure out the wording of that paragraph so that this aspect would be better taken into account there.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u17	Thank you. Today, with the replacement card number 15, Mr Radim Fiala will vote. I therefore now ask Mr Josef Uhlík with his point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on the bill submitted as rapporteur for the construction law. I welcome the draft and thank the Minister for keeping his word. As we discussed the construction law at first reading, which was October 26, so he promised that the EIA amendment would be in January, and so he did. And I will also appeal from this place to my colleagues that by fulfilling the promise, we will lighten the construction law. And, as has already been said here, the amendments - and there are more than 200 - will now be discussing 8. 2. on the Public Administration Committee, that it could be made easier by the fact that amendments relating to the EIA amendment could be moved to discuss this specific law and would not have to be discussed in the construction law. But that, of course, depends on every one of us who put those changelings in there. So it's just an appeal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u19	Thank you, too. Mr Urban, who is now duly applied for. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, on this occasion, I would like to look forward and a little at peace, provided that the barricades on both sides begin to shrink and we start to listen a little bit. And now I don't mean the barricades that I and the Minister would build, but I mean, in that world, it's kind of economic-ecological, if I could afford to call it that. Our country is certainly facing modernisation of individual sectors. And we're having fun here on both barricades, for example. About energy. Everyone may have a slightly different vision of how the energy of the future should look. But even if any vision comes true, even though I think it will eventually have to be one that we agree on, which will be reasonable, economically advantageous, will bring about an improvement in the environment and will be socially viable, so even if it were any, it will, without question, require a very substantial investment in energy. And if I'm talking about investment, so that they can be realized at some reasonable time, we need a system that can process it officially somehow to suit all social requirements, including the environment, but to plan such investments realisticly so that they can have their return. I think we just tried on the traffic, the transport infrastructure, it's not that easy. And it's like there's investments in energy in the shadows. They're going on, but they're going very hard. For example, for many technical reasons that I don't want to divorce here, we're changing the high voltage network from 200 kV to 400 kV on the same route. Do you know how long it takes to replace 200 kV to 400 kV on the same route? Ten years! Is that normal? How did we tie ourselves into a goat or a straitjacket with the contribution of the European Union? Can you imagine what it would mean to build some new routes? This is almost unimaginable for everyone. We are here at a time when energy is more linked within the European Union. We have dealt with a lot of situations in the energy sector that have been dramatic for Czech citizens and the Czech industry in terms of investments made by some neighbours, I am thinking especially of Germany, I mean the period when they have replaced a significant part of their energy sources with wind or solar power plants that depend on the weather, i.e. when it blows and shines a lot, so electric energy goes the way of least resistance under the physical law, and so when this electricity in Germany is to get from the north to the south, it goes through the Czech Republic and threatens the stability of the network in the Czech Republic. We are forced to invest from the money of the relevant company, i.e. the Czech Transmission System, which is a 100% state-owned company, thank God for that, big money in order to cope with such situations so that we can keep the energy network in balance. Some of these investments also require an environmental impact assessment, i.e. The EIA, and, of course, the link to the construction law, it is necessary and important that it harmonises. We want to build another block in Dukovany or Temelín, which we can't do without investing in networks that are related to the discharge of this electricity from the respective nuclear power plants. [[11.50 hours]] Just if we're gonna do it like we're gonna do it now, all of these plans, including a plan for some smart grid, island network, that everyone will have one of their little winds and a solar panel on their roof, and as if it's independent, then of course, that's not gonna happen without significant energy investments. He won't. Whoever says so is wrong. And now I'm not talking about who's gonna pay for it. That is, of course, a completely different question, the whole economic dimension of energy visions, but I am talking about being able to fulfill any vision at all, so that we can climb those obstacles, the formal procedural rules that exist. Therefore, I would very much like us to take every opportunity, perhaps even this, to discuss here both the amendment of the Environmental Impact Act and the Building Act, to use it to do so perhaps to reduce it a bit in ideological views of the future and try to look for some solutions that will mean that we can fulfill any energy vision provided that the procedural rules allow us to do so. That is, as I have said many times to my friends and colleagues from the other barricade, if I may say so, that I think I have no horns and I am not the devil in this area, and I would like us to try to sit down as much as possible at a round table and prepare rules for the future that will allow us to be in some areas such as energy, countries that are among the most modern in the EU. If we do not realise this and we do not take advantage of opportunities such as those such as today to adapt the procedural rules to realistic investment, smart investment, modern investment as far as possible, we will unfortunately not be realized and remain here in the 19th century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u21	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Klán. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u22	Thank you for the floor. I'll follow up on my previous speaker. I fully agree with him because this is where the problem arises, for example, the completion of nuclear reactors in the Czech Republic. I can already see how the EIA will be made for example for a nuclear reactor in Dukovany or Temelín. That's gonna be a hell of a problem! Plus the building bill. Then I imagine everyone will start talking about it, and eventually we're not gonna build anything. I am then fascinated by the fact that some environmental movements say: do not show up Temelín, do not show up Dukovany, and on the other hand they will say: but do not burn villages during coal mining. She resists because everyone then uses the electricity that is coming from Temelín, from Dukovan or from any thermal power plants. She's really resisting each other. I really can't imagine how long this EIA will take to prepare the nuclear reactor, because Temelín is actually the last nuclear power plant in Europe that has been launched, there is no newest one, so we will not even have a choice in the future than to build more nuclear reactors, because if we want to have such a development of civilization, and I don't mean only in our Czech Republic, but in Europe, nuclear reactors are the only future at the moment, because of course mineral wealth occurs in some way, although nuclear wealth is also final in some way, and solar energy will not replace it at this moment, nor will it replace wind energy like Germany. I am not defending myself from these projects, of course, but if we want to have a stable source of energy and energy, the future is really only in nuclear power. Of course, it has some negative convention, a tendency to explode like Chernobyl, even though they do not know, for example, that there was another type of reactor that was forbidden to export to other European countries and RVHP, or Fukushima, where something was neglected again. The bogeymen are here, but I say the EIA will be really hard, and that's why it's really important to completely prepare and work it out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u23	Thank you, too. I therefore wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the debate. I don't see anyone. If that is the case, then I will end the general debate and ask the appellant and the rapporteur whether you want to take the final floor. The rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u24	I would merely propose the commandments of the Committee on the Environment, as already proposed by the Organising Committee, and in the debate, there was a proposal from my colleague Klán for discussion in the Economic Committee. So we should vote on that. [[Objection from the diaper.]] Sorry, just for regional development.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u25	I have noted your suggestions. We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The President of the Chamber of Deputies proposed by his decision to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Committee on the Environment as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. In that case, I shall call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby and we shall then proceed to the vote. First, let me repeat what we are going to vote on. The motion for a resolution will be: who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee? I'm registering a request for your check-out. I'll have you all checked out. I'm gonna ask you to sign up with your cards again. And I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 295, registered 135 Members, for proposal 134, against no one. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on the Environment as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next committee, but there were proposals for a commandment to the Economic Committee and the Committee on Regional Development. I wonder if anyone else has any suggestions on the commandment of another committee. I can't see. In that case, we will vote. First of all, I am opening the vote and asking who is for the commandment to the Economic Committee to press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? Voting with order number 296, 136 Members and Members signed in, in favour of proposal 131, against 1. I note that this proposal has been approved. Furthermore, I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal being directed to the Committee on Regional Development. Who opposes this proposal? It is a vote with order number 297, registered 138 Members and Members, for proposal 83, against 17. I am of the opinion that this proposal has also been approved. I therefore note that this proposal has been directed to other committees, the Economic and Regional Development Committee. I thank you, end the discussion of this point and pass on the proceedings of the meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-01-ps2013-054-10-006-053.u26	Good noon, ladies and gentlemen. We will proceed according to the approved agenda of the meeting and we will have item 17. I thank the Minister for staying at the rapporteur's table because paragraph 17 is
