ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u1	174. The proposal of Members of Václav Votava, Jaroslav Klaška, Ondřej Benešík, Adolf Beznoska, Jiří Dolejš, František Laudát, Petr Gazdík and Karel Rais to issue a law amending Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle and on the amendment of certain related laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 1019/ - first reading We received the Government's position as House Press 1019/1. I prosit that Mr Václav Votava present the proposal for the appellants. I would also like to say in this context that the signature in the amendment was subsequently withdrawn by Mr Rais. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, colleagues, first of all, let me thank you for your helpfulness, which has enabled this bill to be discussed. Now, then, about your own proposal. I am presenting this parliamentary proposal together with Members across the political spectrum. This is not a political proposal aimed to the right or to the left, it is a proposal from Members in favour of more than seven and a half million motorists, those who comply with the laws and also fulfil their obligation to take liability insurance under the law for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle. The proposal was consulted on a professional basis with the Czech insurer's office and was supported by the Ministry of Finance, whose strategy of the amended law falls within it. The draft amendment to Act 168/1999 Coll. also received a positive opinion from the Government. I would now like to state the reasons for the amendment of the law. The drunken policeman who destroyed 30 vehicles in Prague's Vinohrady, the braver who caused the infant's death in an accident, are only two cases out of about 2,600 accidents caused last year by car drivers without a mandatory liability. Estimates of the number of uninsured vehicles on our roads are approaching 130 thousand. Damages for non-payments of compulsory liability will be paid by the Czech office of insurers from the guarantee fund and will recover the entire amount from the uninsured culprit. Damages can go up to tens of millions of crowns and only a fraction of the total amount is recovered from uninsured guilt. The rest will remain on top of the guarantee fund of the Czech insurer's office, which is financed by insurance companies. Every year, insurance companies contribute CZK 250 million to the guarantee fund for uninsured damages, and this cost must then be reflected in the price of the compulsory guarantee. In the introduction, I mentioned two media-exposed accidents caused last year by a non-payment of mandatory liability. Now let's ask ourselves a question. Would you be willing to voluntarily contribute to the victims of these accidents to pay for the damage they have caused? Everyone will say no or at least everyone will answer or most will say no. Yet, we involuntarily contribute to them and to thousands of other uninsured damages from our mandatory liability. More than two years ago in 2014, when we disrupted the original system of financing uninsured damages, in the House, more than seven and a half million insured vehicles were promised to owners that we would make sure they didn't have to pay for the default liability. That is what this proposal is dealing with now. However, we do not propose the same, because the old system has really had many defects and disproportionate impact on some motorists. The aim is to bring liability for damage caused by uninsured vehicles to those who can cause them, i.e. non-payers of compulsory liability. Therefore, if the Czech insurer's office finds that the registered vehicle, i.e. the vehicle in the vehicle register, does not have a compulsory liability, it will bypass the owner of the vehicle with a call to reimburse the contribution to the guarantee fund. The limitation period shall be fixed for one year, i.e. the maximum contribution shall be limited to one year. The daily rate of contributions not insured will then be determined by decree of the Ministry of Finance. It is therefore a solidarity system among the uninsured, who will make contributions to the guarantee fund for uninsured damages. I want to stress that this rate will be appropriate, related to the amount of legal insurance. That wasn't in the last law in a number of cases. Another significant change from the state that was in force until 2014 is that if someone causes damage to an uninsured vehicle, only 30 percent of the total damage amount will have to be paid to the guarantee fund, but not more than 300,000 crowns. Only by 2014, there were nearly a hundred accidents with uninsured damage of more than one million crowns. This amount has often been liquidated for uninsured culprits and, as a rule, will be indebted to their families for life. Thanks to this reduction in the hardness of the law, people who are often sentenced to lifelong repayment, who have caused uninsured damage, for example, by a loaned uninsured vehicle or inadvertently through omissions in payment of compulsory liability, will not fall into a social trap. However, this ceiling will not apply to crimes or rides by an uninsured vehicle under the influence of alcohol and the culprits will pay the entire amount of damage recovered to the guarantee fund. If a person has registered his vehicle to operate in the vehicle register, it is assumed that he is using it and must therefore have the vehicle insured. If he doesn't operate it and doesn't want to have insurance, have him hand over the registration plates to the deposit and temporarily disable it. This obligation is already enshrined in the law. However, it is practically not required to comply with it at all. The new contribution of the uninsured will be paid by those who have their vehicle registered for operation but do not have it insured. The Czech insurer's office will not be able to set up the daily contributions rates of the non-insured. These will be determined by the Ministry of Finance, as I have already mentioned. At the same time, contributions to vehicles which were not insured more than a year ago will not be possible. At the same time, contributions from non-payers of the compulsory guarantee will serve only to cover uninsured damages. Our proposal allows money which will not be used for this purpose in a given calendar year to be transferred by the Czech insurer's office to the fund of damage barriers, where they will be financed by road safety prevention projects. The law does not introduce any new obligations for motorists associated with the operation of the vehicle, but increases the demands for compliance with the laws currently in force. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you to express your support for this parliamentary amendment to Act No. 168/1999 Coll., which is under the number of the House press 1019 and its release for committee discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u3	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I now ask that the rapporteur take the floor for the first reading. I've got a mark on it, it's in my hand, it's hard to read, and I assume it's Mr. Mr. Syblík. Isn't that right? They wrote you down with a soft one, you're with a hard one. [[Call off the microphone.]] And so we searched. Always hard, yes, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The petitioner here has given a very detailed explanation of the bill that I agree with. I would like to say that at its meeting on 27 February 2017, the Government discussed this proposal and took a favourable position on it. Finally, I would like to say that I propose a reduction in the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u5	Thank you. So I didn't get it from the notes, Mr. Číp is crossed out, and it's from this morning, and it's the first reading. The first reading of the rapporteur's amendment must be voted by the House. So regardless of your performance, and I hope it goes well, but if you do go ahead and vote for yourself. [[Call off the microphone.]] Okay. Then I'll call in my co-workers from the lobby. [[11.10 hours]] The debate is not yet open. We will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for first reading. And I think there's enough of us. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is the rapporteur for a change to be Mr Syblík. Who's against it? Voting number 547, registered 135 Members, for 101, against no one. This proposal was adopted. So, Mr. Ambassador, if there's anything else you'd like to add to your vote, or do you refer to your speech?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u6	Yes, I'm referring to my speech. I told you everything I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u7	In that case, thank you and I am opening up a general debate to which I am applying - so far I have one application - so please, my colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, members of the government, we have again Act No. 168/1999 Coll., on liability insurance for damage caused by the operation of the vehicle. Not only I, but also other commemorators of the Chamber of Deputies will surely hunt in memory and realize the state in which the activities of the Czech insurer's office were based in terms of the recovery of unpaid insurance premiums, which was created only by comparing the records of insured persons and the registration of vehicles. With this problem, in accordance with Act No 56 on Vehicle Registration, we were working in some way towards the end of 2014. Basically, thanks to the proposal of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia in this law, the Czech insurer's office has succeeded in abolishing the activities of the Czech insurer's office in the sense that they will be the organization, the non-state organization, which by law has the power to compare the two records of which I have spoken, that is to say the registration of vehicles and the registration of policyholders, and from this to derive appropriate sanctions against those who allegedly have not paid the insurance, regardless of whether the vehicle has been damaged or harmed. This proposal went through and we were very happy that after this amendment, with its kind of legal status in the Czech Republic and the factual state of the possibility of recovering these charges, which was outrageous even in that they exceeded several times the daily limits of actual insurance by type of vehicle, so we prevented a whole number of citizens from being completely guilty of execution and, in effect, threatened to their existence by the forfeiture of property and the recovery of large sums, especially because the citizens could actually get to it so that the vehicle was the object of inheritance or, for example, by applying the institute of semi-transfer. So the new vehicle buyer did not declare the vehicle as it should have done by law, and basically the original vehicle owner was fully responsible for the payment of the legal premium, and that means that all possible compensations were also enforced after it. Financing - because the Czech insurer's office as a non-state organization administers the guarantee fund under the law, so by the previous amendment of the law currently in force we gave basically the possibility to finance the guarantee fund from insurance contributions. I remember the crazy debate that was here, how the honest payers will suffer by disproportionately raising the price of legal insurance, i.e. liability insurance from the use of motor vehicles. I am convinced that this has not been done with any insurance undertaking offering this insurance product and, in essence, the system is fully operational on the basis of insurance contributions. Unfortunately, colleagues took the change as necessary and returned to the form of Act No. 168/1999 Coll. in the form that we proposed as the original amendment to what was finally adopted with the approval of the Ministry of Finance, and we are in the position that the Czech insurer's office as a non-state and essentially private company, which covers all insurance companies that close these products from the guarantee fund point of view, has the opportunity to re-select the guarantee fund. So they took two measures. One measure is that, after comparing the databases I was talking about, they have a limit on when they must apply the recovery of unpaid premiums. The second institute is that it is essentially given that the amount that is equal to the daily premium is also the amount that is recovered as the amount due. It is two positive changes, that is true, I must agree, because it was also our original proposal, as we once wanted to amend Act No.168/1999 Coll. in 2014. Given the functionality of the system at present, I think that by introducing these mitigation conditions and allowing the Czech insurer's office to work again with comparing the two agendas, that is, the registration of vehicles and the registration of insured persons from the point of view of road insurance, we are opening up space for the insurer's office to have again more resources than it needs for its activities, even if I remember from the previous discussion that it was operated by canceling contributions from those from whom they will be enforced for unpaid, so the Czech insurer's office will not have enough funds. The only argument in the explanatory memorandum that I understand is that the share of payments from the guarantee fund for damages that are not directly related to the vehicle, but more financial damage today is from the point of view of injury to the health of individual accident participants, and therefore, in the case of an accident committed by a vehicle which has no legal insurance, so there is, of course, an increase in the amount of remuneration. However, this does not distract us at all from the current state of our concern for the future, and this is that the proposed system of contributions and the proposed regulated obligation to pay the regression compensation will lead to a fairer arrangement of the system and that it will not be possible to implement the excesses resulting from the comparison of databases. Because the databases, both vehicle records and policyholders' records, are still not perfectly objective. And another thing. You can only defend yourself judicially if you are accused or asked to pay for the missing insurance, even if you no longer have to be a policyholder, but you have to defend yourself this way. This means that the time is extended and the time limit is running again from the notification, which may be very significant and possibly liquidating for you after the sum of the costs of the regression. Unfortunately, one thing is not solved by the amendment to this law at all. And this is what was also the original concern, why the 2014 amendment extended to the form that none of the payers are obliged to contribute to the guarantee fund of the Czech insurer's office. And that is, there is no control over funds in the funds of damage barriers, where the Czech insurer's office, after the transfer from the guarantee fund, can manage funds without basic rules for the management of public funds, because this is the case, and controls are not carried out by an independent audit authority. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'm asking - the rapporteur. Excuse me, Mr. plaintiff. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u10	Thank you for the floor. I don't want to prolong it, but I would like to respond to what my previous speaker, Mr. Šidlo, said. I remember very well when we discussed this in 2014 in the Budget Committee - and I was one of those who harshly criticized the practice of the Czech insurer's office for those disproportionately high contributions to the guarantee fund. But many things have changed since then. On the one hand, the semi-transfers have been abolished, and I don't think my colleague said that, and I'm sure the vehicle register has improved, and that's true. So the mistakes or shortcomings that were then because the registry wasn't complete, I think they're quite eliminated. The move is also that the contribution to the Fund for an uninsured vehicle will be determined by the Ministry of Finance. So I think that regulation is quite obvious here, because it really happened at the time that the contribution was disproportionate to what the amount of legal insurance was - and often multiplied by the legal policy. It is also important - and I must honestly say this, I said it in my introduction that a number of people who cause an accident and do not have the vehicle insured are unable to repay the whole amount of damage. And in this, I think the limit is 30 percent and 300 thousand. The koruna is quite appropriate, because this is the current practice, that it is basically based on today, that it is conquered by about 30 percent, for the big damage certainly. And it often condemns those people into life's payback and prepares for them enormous problems. So, even though it sometimes seems like we're going back a little bit to those who don't have an insured vehicle, I think it's a step in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, it's up to you, of course. I'd like to ask you to release it for second reading. And we will certainly discuss this in the Committee on Budgets, and we certainly do not oppose any sensible amendments and, of course, the debate on this. Just as there was a rich discussion last time, so it will definitely be now. And I think it's perfectly okay. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. With a factual remark, Mr Šidlo. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u12	I see I'm on my own with the rapporteur. I don't want to extend it, but basically one more comment. Yes, I admit, I didn't say that the paratroop was canceled, I agree. Thank you for the addition. But on the other hand, there's one more thing to say here. The fact that the Czech insurer's office in the event of an accident and damage caused by an uninsured vehicle is quite legitimately recovered through legal proceedings. It means that it's not that the damage isn't being repaired in any way. They shall not be bailed out by pre-purpose recovery of the contribution to the reserve fund. But they're restocked to the reserve fund after the accident. So those people who don't commit an uninsured vehicle accident, it's basically not about that until the moment of the accident. And then it's enforced in court. Unfortunately, whether the court is successful or not, from the point of view of the conditions set for recovery, is another matter. But I think this is being sanitized. So if someone is arguing that there is a lack of money to recover the damage caused by uninsured vehicles, then I think that in the current situation it is being addressed and the court is supposed to set the conditions so that those amounts are enforceable and correspond to real costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u13	Thank you. And I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. With priority rights, Mr. President Sklenák.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u14	I've only been very brief. The rapporteur proposed to shorten the deadline for discussion to 30 days. He did so in his opening remarks. The proposal should be made correctly in the general debate, so I do.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-28-ps2013-056-10-003-174.u15	Very well, I've marked this proposal. Anyone else interested in speaking in the general debate? If not, I am ending the general debate. I ask about any final words from the plaintiff, the rapporteur... They're not interested. The motion for a return or rejection has not been made, so we will deal with the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organisational Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Committee on Budgets as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? It's not like that. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. I have yet to call in my colleagues from the lobby, and I'm registering a request for your check-out, which I just did, and I'm going to ask you to come forward before the vote with your cards. Okay. I think we can vote. I'm opening the vote and asking who's in favour of the motion. Who's against it? Voting 548, 114 Members signed in for 112, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Budgets as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion for a commandment to the next committee? I don't see a suggestion like that. I therefore conclude that this proposal will not be directed to any other committee. And we are coming to the proposal that was made in the general debate, so that the time limit for discussion is reduced to 30 days. I'm opening the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who opposes this proposal? This is vote number 549, registered by 116 Members, for 92, against 3. This proposal was adopted. That's how we've exhausted this point, which I'm ending with. Thank you. And I'm opening up another point that's
