ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u1	75. Government bill on social housing and housing allowance /house print 1065/ - first reading This proposal was again addressed on 25 April at the 56th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. Ms Jana Černochová's procedural proposal to interrupt this point until the time of the presence of the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, could not be voted because the Chamber of Deputies was not fit to settle. The general debate has been interrupted. So I will first ask Mrs Černochová whether it takes this procedural proposal to be voted before we continue. I'll ask my colleagues to keep it down. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u2	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I saw Mr Pilný's future finance minister here a little while ago, so I will be satisfied if he takes a position on this in the parliamentary debate, so I do not propose a procedural vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u3	Thank you. In that case, we will continue the negotiations without voting on this proposal. I ask that the rapporteur's seat be taken by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs Michaela Marksová and the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Jitka Chalánková. I see President Stanjura's hand raised, so I'm asking if he's applying for a word. That's right. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u4	I would have one procedural proposal. Stop discussing that point to the presence of either the Prime Minister or one of the vice-premieres. Thank you. That's one out of three, it's not that big of a demand.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u5	Okay. I'll call in a colleague and colleagues from the lobby. It is a procedural proposal, I will put it to a vote without debate. Let me repeat what it sounds like. The procedural proposal is that both the Prime Minister and one of the vice-premieres of this government should be present when discussing this law. Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a 67-order vote. 120 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 26, against 45. This proposal has not been agreed with. I ask whether the appellant or rapporteur wants to take the floor before I open the debate. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Today I will be more brief than in my previous performances. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time we have started a debate on the law on social housing. As his rapporteur, at the outset, I would like to strongly turn against the words that have been spoken by Mrs Marksová in recent weeks by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. In the media, she began to claim that the negotiation of this very controversial law blocked the opposition, or perhaps even the opposition, from obstructions. These sentences are also on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. It's not true. The Minister may not have noticed this because of her sporadic presence in the hall, but both the first and second attempts were made during the debate here at the plenary very factual comments and arguments on the draft law. Yes, I admit that I repeated part of my news report last time. The reason, however, was the fact that the Minister was almost not present in the hall during the previous hearing. I considered it reasonable and, above all, polite to introduce her to my view as rapporteur. I would also like to remind you that on the ODS side, and we talked about this a little while ago, there was a rather logical request for the Minister of Finance to be present during the legal hearing. I don't know why this should be an obstruction. On the contrary, it should be a matter of course. The government, or at least the Social Democrats, want to send tens of billions of crowns for the construction and reconstruction of state flats, and we must therefore ask whether the State should make these funds available and whether it will actually spend them in accordance with what the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has put into the law. As you well remember, the proposal to suspend the law pending the arrival of the Minister of Finance was not even voted in the end. However, there are no obstructions. And they weren't. The reason for this was the fact that the government MPs, including the colleagues of Minister Marksová, from the ČSSD, went home. They were obviously not interested in the social housing law. [[17.30 hours]] As rapporteur of the law, I would like to point out that during the debate that took place, it became clear that neither the government parties themselves had found agreement on the form of the law. That is, if we still have a functioning government. The government apparently gave up its responsibility for a failed and bad bill by sending it to the Chamber of Deputies. Now he's looking for a culprit to prevent the law from being passed. That's the kind of attitude I want to reject. The Minister cannot, of his own inability to prepare a good law, blame the government's opposition. On the contrary, the social housing law could have been precisely the law over which all the parliamentary parties could have put their hand. But it's hardly possible in a situation where we have a disemboweled torso of the original versions of the law on our table. A torso that raises more questions than answers. I really do not understand how we have this basis rather than the final bill to change and improve, nota bene for the current government agony and a few months before the election. But back to the matter and the law itself. I tried to name most of the problematic points in my intelligence report. As long as the material and content problems that we can discuss are left out, the law is also poorly written. I don't have to be a lawyer to get the conviction, at obvious and routine reading of this bill, that it wasn't probably written by legislation, even though the author was trying to make such an impression. The proposal contains a number of unclear, sometimes ambiguous provisions, a number of incomprehensible provisions and does not know how to deal with a number of situations that may arise, not to mention legislative technical errors. It is this side of the law that I would like to address today. I have selected several specific paragraphs at random, unfortunately there are many problems in the law. For example, we have § 5, which says: odst. 1. A person who is without housing means a person who is not the owner, tenant or tenant of an immovable property or an apartment intended for permanent housing under the construction law, does not own a cooperative share with which the rental of a cooperative apartment is linked and does not have any other legal title for the use of an immovable property or an apartment intended for permanent living. Paragraph 2 is Furthermore, a person who is without housing shall be a person who lives outside the housed apartments or in premises which are not used for permanent housing under the construction law or in apartments that do not meet the requirements for permanent housing. - If the word "continues" in paragraph 2, it shall extend the circle of persons referred to in paragraph 1. Strictly speaking, according to paragraph 2, a wealthy real estate owner whose hobby is to live in a trailer park is also a person without housing. It doesn't matter that he owns and rents hundreds of apartments. We all know the author probably didn't mean it, but that's exactly what he was able to say in the law. The following section 6 is interesting. He says: A particularly vulnerable person is a person in housing distress in relation to (f) the person to whom the person with whom he resides permanently was committed a crime of abuse of the person entrusted under Section 198 of the Penal Code, abuse of a person living in a common dwelling under Section 199 of the Penal Code, dangerous threats under Section 353 of the Penal Code or dangerous persecution under Section 354 of the Penal Code and which is a victim under the Criminal Victims Act. - What if she's not living with this person anymore because she moved in with Mom? Next - from what point on is domestic violence relevant to the social housing law? A criminal report, a charge, a final conviction? We all know that criminal proceedings can take years. Or is it just a social worker's assessment, and the law enforcement authorities won't need it at all? The same provision of the letter. (i) includes a person with a mental illness, an assessment of the circumstances of the situation is carried out by a social worker. You mean you won't ask psychiatrists at all? That there will be no methodology so that the assessment in Pardubice does not differ from that in Hradec Králové? If social workers judge this on a case-by-case basis, you open the door to corruption. Interesting is also § 13 para. 2. Activities related to the administration and operation of social housing may be entrusted to another legal person by the State Housing Development Fund. But how does the State Housing Development Fund select such a person? A public contest? Or will the director of the State Housing Development Fund decide on how he's gonna sleep? Can the chosen person also refuse? Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 1. The municipality that has volunteered for the scheme must set up a social housing fund which corresponds to the number of persons in housing distress who are entitled to a social housing with the support of social work and social housing. The social housing fund consists of apartments owned by the municipality which established the social housing fund and apartments owned by other natural or legal persons with whom the municipality has entered into an agreement to provide the apartment to the social housing fund. - How will the community find out? Plus, the number is variable. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 2. The competent authority of the municipality shall decide on the entry into the system. The decision shall be communicated by the municipality to the Ministry and the State Housing Development Fund within 15 working days of the date of approval by the competent authority of the municipality, on a form prescribed by the Ministry. - Which organ will decide then? I think it will be necessary to supplement the law on municipalities, but its amendment is not proposed at all! Why? Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 5. The municipality may withdraw from the system at any time on 1 January of the following calendar year, provided that it is registered in the system for at least 24 calendar months. The notice of withdrawal from the scheme must contain, in particular, a proper justification, a description of the means already implemented in the context of social housing, the number of decisions issued, the number of social flats provided with the support of social work and social housing, the amount of social rent and the obligations resulting from the contracts concluded or other contracts concluded by the municipality. If the notification does not contain any of the required requirements, the Ministry shall invite the municipality to supplement it. - And what will be done if the community fails to comply with these requirements? Is this related to the annulment of the act? I was also interested in § 17 para. 2. The content of the social housing fund register is (f) an indication of the agreed amount of rent. - Which rent? Does that mean the remuneration for the person who provides the apartment to the social housing fund and remains the owner of the apartment? Or the rent to be paid by the tenant? Who will a person without housing actually make a contract with? With the community or with the State Housing Development Fund? Or with the owner of the apartment, if it is not the municipality or the State Housing Development Fund? Once again, we know what the author meant, but it doesn't come from the text of the law. Annex V.Part 2.41 (d) 3. The municipality entered into the scheme shall, with the exception referred to in the last sentence, conclude with the person in the housing emergency a contract for the lease of a social apartment no later than two years after the date on which the application was lodged. The State Housing Development Fund is obliged to provide a social apartment with support for social work or a social apartment no later than three years after the date of application. The municipality is not obliged to conclude a contract in accordance with the first sentence if the person has a debt over a period of three months in excess of ten times the life minimum of the individual. - Why does the municipality have only two years to provide the apartment and the State Housing Development Fund with immeasurably greater possibilities, especially if it is not forced to provide the apartment to a person in the same municipality in which he is staying, has he three years to provide the apartment? All that matters is the unequal treatment of the applicant. And if we allow it, shouldn't it rather be a community, who will have more time to provide the apartment? But do not find out, because § 25 para. 3 is in direct conflict with § 28 para. 3. Paragraph 28 states: 3. The State Housing Development Fund shall, within two years of the date of submission of the application, provide any form of support to a person who has been recognised as a person in a housing emergency by the local regional branch of the Labour Office. So what's the deal with the State Housing Development Fund? Does he have a two-year term or a three-year term? Does § 25 or § 28 apply? [[17.40 hours]] Ladies and gentlemen, maybe I can continue this way until morning. I am sorry, but the Department of Labour and Social Affairs wasted the time at its disposal, and just before the elections he submitted a draft law to the Chamber of Deputies, which is not ripe for further discussion. The bill is tabled, and I'm sorry for the word, legislative paquilas. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u7	I thank Mrs Chalánková as rapporteur. We will now continue the interrupted general debate. Mr Zdeněk Soukup, Mr Zdeněk Soukup, came forward first. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will turn to my colleague Chalánková by means of you. She's been really busy, and she's right. The law is wrong. However, I will now play the part of my colleague Kaňkovský, who has made a similar request or a similar recommendation as he did in the last social services law. Let's put the law into second reading and try to fix it somehow. Everything's repairable. I was talking about this last time -- he said, let's chew up all that's wrong in the law, let's leave it to the good. I called it last time - let's try to unite into some minimalist version. It's not with regret for an MPSV. The Department of Labour and Social Affairs doesn't need that bill. That law is needed by people in the field, and that law is needed above all by municipalities, and that law is needed by us, because we spend huge resources, we throw it into the throats of blackmailers who trade in social misery, I would say, who run hostels, etc. I would say that we can agree on this: let's cancel the housing fee, set up, or, more precisely, agree on the principle of giving it a price map, so that we can put an end to the useless waste of funds. I consider the register to be good, too. We don't really need all the other things, they can be arranged by the next House. Once again, I challenge you, let's do the second reading. Let me put it this way: we still have to work here, do three more months, so at least let's work. Let's try. Maybe it won't work out, but let's try to make some kind of deal to fix these things, as I say, in favour of not throwing unnecessary resources through the window and putting an end to the poverty business that bothers us all on the right and left. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u9	Thank you, honourable Member. I don't know about you, but I've been working hard here for three and a half years, Mr. Ambassador. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Vladislav Vilímec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. A point of fact - Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, I must respond to my colleague Soukup. I don't think that's how laws are supposed to be passed and processed. Do not be angry with me, my colleague, through the President. Reminds me of a story about a dog and a cat making a cake. It's really a serious subject, social housing, and it's not just a question of fighting those who earn money from poverty. That's where I think the resources would be different, and I think we've been through this before, except the Ministry had a different perspective on how to deal with it. I think if the municipalities were to deal with this, it would be completely different. And to say that municipalities need this law. Let me put it this way: they don't need it! Because municipalities, if they act normal, they have social apartments that long ago, they manage them, and they really do it by knowing about these people. And I'm going to join the proper debate to tell you why I reject this, what I don't like there, and maybe we could also be interested in the reaction of the professional Union of Towns and Communities. I don't think it's positive for this proposal. If something's wrong, please, it's wrong by nature, there's no way to fix it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u11	Thank you, honourable Member. Mr Vladislav Vilímec is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u12	Mr Vice-President, fellow Members, I was already performing on the first day of the discussion, but since the seventh hour had passed, I had to interrupt my performance, so now I will follow up on the opening day's performance. First of all, even on the first day, and today it's the same, he surprised the lack of interest of government officials. On the one hand, the government, at least that's how I understood it, is trying to tell the public how much it cares about the adoption of the social housing law, on the other hand, look at the series. The Minister of the Environment and Minister Marksová are here. I also pointed out in the previous debate, and here I will also follow up with my colleague Adamec that the law is, on the one hand, very non-standard, that the law, whose implementation is to be voluntary, is also strange; secondly, it is a very expensive law and we consider it very dubious to quantify the effects put forward together with the law. And thirdly, it is a law that we are discussing here at the end of the parliamentary term, but if we were to discuss it in some form and approve it, it will eventually be filled with other governments, not the current government, which is already almost in demise. I have also expressed my consideration as to whether we need such a law at all. This is where I'm going to follow up with my colleague Adamec, the mayor of a long time. I'm also an elderly municipal politician. At least in this form, no way. We have all seen many changes made by the law over time. Unfortunately, not all versions could be expressed by those affected by social housing and without which no social housing system can work. Now I'm thinking of communities first. For one thing, the Union of Cities and Communities is against, and in principle, municipalities have a key role to play in the proposed social housing system - or should logically. Perhaps the final proposal is more lenient to them than the original one, so their participation in the system is to be voluntary, but in my view it lacks quite meaning, after all, Minister Marksová and other government officials presented after the government approved the proposal after a few delays, that the volunteering is only at the beginning, that it is a kind of legislative screen, and the municipalities will later have to join. Moreover, the most important thing is missing in the proposal - the system of financing ambitious plans for the construction of social housing. At the same time, providing sufficient funding should motivate - or should, according to the bill - municipalities to start creating social housing in accordance with the law. At this point, we really do not know exactly how the flow of finance will be directed, what conditions will be laid down for the municipalities and when the municipalities will be able to draw some compensation, for example, in the construction of new flats. The explanatory memorandum does not indicate and does not quantify the supposed involvement of municipalities that will not be negligible, nor does it provide any other costs that can be expected following the huge administration that would arise in connection with this law. Due to the limited number of available apartments owned by many municipalities, it is clear that private apartments or owned by private individuals would have to come into the social housing fund in this concept. But the question is, why should privates do it at all? Although the municipality will pay the owner a fee for providing these flats, if it is not higher than the market rent, it is not clear to me the motivation for private homeowners to participate in the social housing system, notabene in a situation where flats should be called. allocate to troubled tenants who are in danger of destroying the apartments in the foreseeable future. [[17.50 hours]] We called last time for a representative of the Ministry of Finance to be here, we don't have it exactly, but I see here probably the future finance minister, so that's also important. And why did we want that? Because the Ministry of Finance, in principle, rejected the bill in those forms of work. It fundamentally disagreed with this bill proposal or with the previous versions. Perhaps it would be good to quote the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, although it does not concern the very last text, because the last text simply did not pass through external comments, but it concerns the wording of the previous text. I'm just gonna pick something so I don't quote the whole Ministry of Finance position here. I quote the Ministry of Finance: The bill does not complete the government's programming declaration. It does not meet the objectives set out, compared to the current situation, it only increases with certainty the administrative intensity of all involved. It requires an increase in government and government employees in a number of thousands of new jobs, yet it is real that the solution will continue to prevail through benefits. The Treasury also resented the fact that it would have to modify a number of things. They will have to adapt the implementing rules, which we simply do not know. Again with the quote. I quote: The solution to social housing will in principle be determined by implementing regulations that are not part of the proposal. Without knowledge of these implementing regulations, consent cannot be given to the draft law. Now there's a list of the rules, and I'm not quoting them. As regards the financial implications, the Ministry of Finance states that the material shows that the proposed legislation will have an impact on the state budget and other public budgets. In this context, it should be pointed out that these are new expenditures which are not secured in the medium term. With regard to the impact on state budgets, in 2018 it is 548 million, then it is billions, then it is necessary for the relevant organisational units of the State to ensure them when preparing the relevant budgetary documents. Under the material, the cost of the social housing system is administratively related to the implementation of the social housing system itself, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and other central authorities of the state. We are of the opinion that any efficiency of the system is lost in such great administrative difficulty. So it's just a list of Treasury opinions. Perhaps I will read the last sentence, the original sentence of the Ministry of Finance - or several sentences - in relation to the impact assessment of regulation. I quote: In our opinion, the whole text of the regulatory impact assessment is a defence of only one proposed solution. It does not contain critical assessment and comparison of individual variants. The text is inconsistent, it does not always correspond with the solution in the law, it states unsubstantiated claims. We thus fundamentally disagree with the interpretation of calculations as a conservative variant. So that's the Ministry of Finance's position. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, this law, like the previous government, presents itself at the very end of the parliamentary term, and it is of course already problematic, because the law cannot be discussed anyway, and in my opinion, we are merely suffering here, because perhaps most of the House can calculate that any likelihood of such a law being passed or modified is limited to zero. But now I return to the original question of whether we even need the law in this form. The municipalities are already spending considerable resources to build social housing, homes for seniors. We have asylum houses and other types of social services that can be further developed with the help of additional funding. I don't think it's appropriate to criticize self-government, especially municipal, for the lack of help for people in need and threatened by the loss of housing. On the contrary, municipalities expand their capacity for socially needed people in other areas and invest where needed. We can talk about whether some of the special-purpose subsidies they are using are set correctly, whether, for example, they could not be simplified, re-set the drawing rules. In principle, however, I do not think that in the Czech Republic we would have the so-called irresponsible municipalities and cities, for which the state would now suddenly have to take over the problem of social housing. Yes, the problem remains mainly for people in excluded localities and in inadequate housing, whether it is some hostels or houses of various poverty dealers. You will remember that six months ago, we voted on the amendment to the Law on Assistance in Material Need, which will start to work from 1 June. Let's see how it works. We tried so that municipalities could become more involved in whom and under what conditions a so-called housing supplement will be provided. It hasn't started to work yet, and we already have a proposal to cancel the housing supplement and basically a completely different system. In conclusion, I will allow for such a more general consideration, because I do not want to read everything I have prepared because much has been said. You know, a good solution about social housing is not an all-embracing system that will be so-called entitled and will give out apartments to all those who meet the conditions laid down in the law. The good solutions are also partial steps that take into account the differences between, for example, individual groups of residents in financial or housing distress, or a more courageous and expensive system, but which will be thought out, functional and supported by the necessary finances, which is certainly not the proposal. Functional to me means mostly permeable. One that gives all the needy people a roof over their heads and at the same time motivates them to deal with their lives and thus move on to a better kind of housing. Something like this does not come true. I don't know how the proposals were made in those first two days, when it was discussed, if a motion was made to return the petitioner to work, I don't remember. If it hasn't been administered, I'm serving it. If he's been served, I identify with him. In order to proceed by analogy with the previous dispute proposal, I also submit a proposal if the petitioner's return did not pass, a proposal for an extension of the deadline for committee discussions by 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u13	I thank Mr Vilímc. Another duly signed up is Mr Benda, who I do not see. His application is therefore forfeit. Another duly applied for is Mr Ludvík Hovorka. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u14	Thank you for the floor. Dear Vice-President, Madam Secretary, dear colleagues, we have said a lot here. I will focus on the contested provisions of this law and on the risks of this law. There are two types of social housing in the proposal: firstly with compulsory social work and secondly without compulsory social work. The construction of the law is very badly chosen for the start of this. In my opinion, it is right to start from the most necessary, it is with the group with compulsory social work. Ensure the functioning of a system with clear boundaries. Only when certain experience has been gained can it be extended to the second group. According to this proposal, persons in housing distress should be entitled to help. But that's too broad a definition. People entitled would include those who live half a year in hostels, institutes, or shelters, and those who spend more than 40 percent of their income on adequate housing, and they will not be left with a minimum of 1.6 times life. In addition, seniors, disabled people, victims of crimes, or young people should get a social apartment after leaving children's homes. Injurable people should have the position of a man in housing distress and gain an apartment indefinitely, with others within two years they would be judged again. [[18.00 hours]] It would be voluntary for municipalities to provide social housing if they joined the system, they would have to draw up a plan, how many social housings they would need and for whom they would need. If municipalities had not joined the system, social housing would have been provided by the State Housing Development Fund. I will leave aside the costs associated with this, but one issue here is that municipalities are to allocate social housing to the needy voluntarily, and if they had not done so, they would have been provided by the State Housing Development Fund. But there's no clear item of cargo at all. There is no standard for building apartments for a social housing unit with respect to the locality. And if no normalities are established, how will the overpriced social object be controlled, for example, with ten apartments after reconstruction? Now I'm going to mention the risks of this law. The law does not prevent the spread of excluded localities, on the contrary, it rather encourages this in the current version. As a result of the adoption of the law, there will be a number of other socially excluded sites and the risk of segregation will increase. Cheap apartments, cheap locations with all negatives. Inevitably, the market for small-scale flats and changes in market rents will fluctuate. Price regulation from the state undermines the price at the place usual, but paradoxically, it may also increase. The standards for price calculations for the acquisition and operation of social apartments are not set with a link to the local price. The current wording of the Act envisages that housing benefits paid to inconvenient premises will be abolished on a flat-rate basis, regardless of whether people have an alternative in the form of social housing or not. As a result, tens of thousands of people could end up on the street, and a transitional period is not a sufficient guarantee. The law is clearly to bind social work and social housing. It is intended to determine the time period for which individual housing types are provided. My conclusion from this law is this: when we want to start, the state must ensure the functioning of a system with clear boundaries. But there are no limits to this law. I believe that such a chaotic law cannot be corrected. After all, a number of comments from the Ministry of Regional Development contain that the law is chaotic, that it has no unified terminology, defined concepts, etc. In my opinion, it is necessary to prepare a new law in a minimalist version and then, if necessary, consider extending it. These are my comments on this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u15	I thank Mr Hovorka. Another duly applied for is Mr Karel Fiedler, who is not present, so I delete his application. And the next party to the general debate is Mr Ivan Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, colleagues, I will follow up on my point of order. Social housing is a serious issue, and let me say a few words about it. If we want social housing to work effectively and for those who can't, of course, anymore, it means seniors, disabled people or other people who have their problems that don't allow them to be included in normal life, then for the rest, if the law doesn't have motivational elements, then we're just gonna spend money. And speaking of efficiency, I certainly don't think the state is the institution that's always the most effective. Most of the time, we're criticizing the fact that it's the opposite. And who can effectively intervene here are communities. Maybe I'll give you a few facts from the past. Municipalities mostly after 1989, respectively. 1991, when they were established as legal entities, privatized housing funds with the fact that most of the housing fund should not be in the administration of the municipality, that it is a private matter, whether it be in the form of cooperatives, whether it be in the form of personal ownership, and most municipalities did so with exceptions. But, of course, there are no uneducated and ignorant situations in the villages, some of the apartments have never been privatized, they have remained the property of the village. Finally, some of the apartments were built after these years, especially those for seniors, sometimes referred to as nursing homes, where other and other services were provided, where rents remained regulated, and then, of course, social apartments for those needed, but with an incentive element that the social apartment is not always, that it is for a certain period, that it will be determined whether the tenant in question has the desire to work, whether he wants in any way to break out of the situation that he has been in. And I have to say, that's how it works. I'll give you an example. We had about 5,000 apartments in our city, privatized about 4,200, 800 left for social purposes and others, I don't know, 200 we built, or 300, now I don't know. I think that the municipalities really know best how it is, as it should be. [[There's noise in the room.]] I must say, this bill fascinates me in that it actually... I'll wait... This bill fascinates me by not allowing two ways of social housing, as it is written in the law, but there are three systems. It is forgotten that most municipalities, because city councillors and performances are definitely not stupid and they know why they do it, so they just run social apartments today and they have and of course the difference of rents pays out of their money, from their budget. So I think that if we want to make an effective law on social housing and not just meet the mark in the coalition program, the main view should be directed towards the municipalities how to do it. Because the situation across the state is not the same. I understand that we have excluded social sites here, somewhere more, somewhere less, but it is always in a specific place where there is a particular self-government, and we should create conditions such that it can deal with this problem. I have already protested during the annual report of the Housing Development Fund that financing for both construction and repairs and social housing operations should fall there. I really can't imagine how this is going to happen in those municipalities, because some community might want to log in to the system, others wouldn't, but it doesn't mean that in the community that wouldn't want to sign up, that it couldn't suddenly enter the state fund, buy land, and build social housing there, I would even say that the municipality's management doesn't agree. I see it as very problematic here, and I don't think this should be happening. As for who logged into the system, that's also very interesting. I read that the appropriate body of the municipality then in those special provisions that it is the council, where there is no council, is the council. So I think that if we decide on such serious matters in the community, it should always be the municipal council, because it is not just a question for four years when the board, the coalition board are elected, and when someone is in charge of the city, but it should be the whole council, because these decisions are definitely for a longer period than the electoral term of the leadership and city council. Colleague Hovorka has already said that he is concerned that other excluded locations could be created in the case of the construction of other flats. And I think that's true, because apart from seniors where it works without problems, so in the case of apartments where social needs would be placed, I see that as a big problem. And we also have experience with this from the municipalities and cities, because unfortunately this has happened in a number of cases, and not in a targeted way. It just kind of moved in there without any supervision, no driving, and then there was always a lot of trouble. [[18.10 hours]] And what struck me most of all in the bill is that the community can easily write a contract with someone who owes the community money. It's calculated here how much he can owe. But I'd like to say one thing: you know, the greatest order came from the moment those who owed us money lost their claim to anything. And if they didn't pay and they didn't work out in the trial period, they didn't get anything from the village. It really works 100% even for the troubled, I'd say, minorities that we're afraid to talk about out loud sometimes. They are very used to it, because this order, which has been introduced there, they acknowledge and accept that it is, and that they will never receive anything without payment. And all of a sudden, we're saying that they can owe each other and that we can still, in some way, assimilate them into a group of normal citizens. I beg you, how would those citizens who are citizens pay for this, how would they accept it? I can't imagine they'd accept it with cheer and joy. It can't be done like that. We need to be consistent. The biggest problem with working with these excluded localities or with these people is that we're consistent, because once we're not, they're gonna tell each other, and then you're never gonna stop anything. Then there's a line at City Hall, and one of them says, "Pepa Novák got it from you, why don't I get it?" And he owed you money. So I see this place as a big problem. Maybe by concluding what I'm saying here. You could talk here for hours and hours, I could talk about the paragraph after the paragraph, but I'm not gonna do it. I don't think it's that big of a difference when the bill was divided into mandatory and optional quotation marks, because if the municipality doesn't sign up, it's gonna be worth it, and it's gonna be there if it wants to. I wonder if we have any statistics within the Czech Republic, how many such apartments are needed. If we are even aware of the evil that can cause the municipalities to rent apartments for this purpose. That sounds very smiling to me. I remember the '90s, when some unsolidated colleagues bought objects in other villages and then moved their inadaptable citizens there. This isn't the way. That's wrong. The village is supposed to take care of its citizens and its troubled citizens. The purpose is not to drive them out of the village, the purpose is to assimilate them, return them to life, and the purpose is to act like proper citizens. I have to say, it may not have been here yet, but rather than making a mark in the government's programming statement that you've fulfilled - in the end I think you've done quite a lot of things that we didn't like and we're condemning. And when we say today that through bureaucracy, we just don't do anything anymore, and even critics from the government are coming back, that somewhere it's too much, nothing will happen if we leave this to the next House, to the next government. It's really not that simple a problem. We need to deal with this so that we don't make any more problems so that, as they say, we don't spill the baby with the tub. Otherwise I repeat - in order for the system to be effective, the interest of municipalities must be there and must be active. Those people who get into an emergency temporarily need to meet the motivational elements to get them out of the emergency to start acting normal like everyone else. I will overlook the economic aspect of this entire social experiment. I suggest we reject this bill at first reading, not experiment and play, because what's ahead of us is something like throwing a cube of sodium into cold water. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u17	I thank Mr Adamc. I'm registering his motion for rejection at first reading. Mr. Vice-President Jan Bartošek is another party with priority rights. Please, Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I have already spoken the last time in the debate, and I have asked several questions that I have not received answers to. First of all, I want to say to the Minister that some of her comments are not entirely happy, because it would be good for her to better watch what I say is in direct conflict with what I say. One of the things concerns, for example, the list of the target group that concerns it, because from my point of view it is defined too widely and should be narrowed down. That's the first thing to figure out how many people are going to be involved because the interval I've studied ranges from 80,000 to 460-480,000 people. I wonder what impact this will have on the state budget. Because if I'm moving at the bottom line, I'm moving on some - albeit in the time spread - 150 billion. I suppose the amount will be higher than the lower, and I'm only talking about investment, investment money, not operating. This concerns the implementation of the law. The second thing that comes to mind and concerns this law, too, is quite essential. When I went over the calculations proposed by this law, on the one hand, yes, we are helping a group of people who are disadvantaged, but the practical impact of this law - if you deny it to me if I am wrong - means that it will actually affect seniors, senior couples, singles, and families with young children, because changing the payment of housing contributions will be taken away from them. Fix me if I've studied it wrong. But just for example, if a senior who has an income of more than 13,000, his monthly income will be reduced by 2,000 due to a change in the housing allowance. In the case of seniors with a higher income of more than 19,000, their income by failing to receive a housing allowance will be reduced by 2,700 per month, by up to 3,000 singles, and by 3 410 CZK per month for young families with a monthly income of more than 22,000, due to the fact that they do not receive a housing allowance. Maybe I'm wrong, but if I'm right and you're right, I'd hate to put this law into practice by favouring one group, but on the other hand, we're putting most of the people in society at a disadvantage by losing their housing allowance. In practice, it means that they will fail income, even if they are offered a social apartment, but in practice it means that they will have to move to another apartment, we will break their social ties, we will have to offer them other apartments that we probably do not currently have, and we will place them in a completely different environment instead of allowing them to normally exist, be, and, despite the housing allowance, pay rent and pay our obligations. So I'm asking: it means putting this law into practice that a number of families - and I'm interested in how many they will be, what the impact will be on the state budget, because I understand the argument that in that case we'll save as a state, but I'm interested in the social impact, how much it means to save, against how many flats we're going to have to build, and I'm not talking about the human fates for which it just means moving. Those are the questions I ask myself. I said I'm in favour of this law moving on through first reading, but I expect to get answers to these questions during the second reading. Personally, I have a big dilemma as to whether I will be able to support this law if it puts seniors, singles and families with more children at a disadvantage in the future. That's a big personal dilemma for me. In addition to the fact that social housing and available housing can be implemented in practice without law, and it is only on the willingness of mayors to engage intensively in social work, to support their housing fund, and as a former deputy mayor, I can say that I have done so, that we have been able to build apartments for both young families and seniors, and for people who have been socially disadvantaged, it is simply that the city's leadership cares about communicating with people, knows what it is that it is suffering from and what social services it can offer, so I am interested in these issues that are purely factual: how many people it concerns, how much impact it will have on the state budget and whether those who are currently operating normally will not lose their resources and fall away socially at the expense of those whom we want to help. These are my questions about this point. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u19	I thank the Vice-President. Now with priority rights - excuse me, Mr Benda duly applied for? Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u20	Mr Vice-President, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, I almost felt that the Minister would sometimes rise and answer questions, in particular those which are so sensitive that Mr Bartošek here pointed out. In my speech last time, I pointed somewhat more closely to the legislative shortcomings, the obvious contradictions that are in the bill, the obvious errors that are there, but here it comes - and the rapporteur has said it repeatedly - to point out that everything that we so-called face is going to be dealt with will only get worse and complicated. This is a system that, as a result, may suit the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which will employ two thousand other officials, that is excellent, but if we are adopting laws to employ officials, I am not sure that this is our goal entirely. Possibly to the State Housing Development Fund, respectively. developers connected to it, who will most likely have to build tens in the coming years, maybe hundreds of thousands of malometric flats. Again, I don't understand why these flats couldn't be created on a normal market and why we imagine that they should be built by the state and re-establish a system of state housing, especially after the experience we have with this not only from this country, but from all the countries of the world that operate in this way. We know that the ghetto is really there, and that we're just going to go down the path of their deepening. And then there are very clear questions: Will it not come to pass that those on whom we save will be organized for you? In particular, there will be pensioners who may, from someone's point of view, live in a slightly more valuable apartment today than perhaps the idea of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs they have of living in, but live there their whole lives, often worked their whole lives in this country, and we will now say no to them, so we will rather build for you the social housing that we will move into, because we are no longer willing and able to contribute to you living in where you have lived your whole life, because it seems too expensive to us. I'm asking real questions, maybe it's not, maybe the secretary will come out and convince us. So far, neither the bill nor the explanatory statement have convinced us completely. Madam Secretary, with his usual peace of mind, believes he's gonna sit here, so we can say anything, and she'll wait quietly for the government coalition to back her up at the end of the vote and release the law to second reading. It can happen, of course. But I ask: Will there really be no harm to those who deserve these benefits today and, on the contrary, to deepen the problems that we have with those who, in fact, in many cases, would I say almost not deserve them, or is it at least questionable whether they deserve them? And we're going to set up thousands of new civil servants, two who will take care of them so-called to get them to work. I'm not mayor, I've never been one, but the experience of most mayors says that it's almost impossible that those people who want to work and have some will usually work. It is simply not true that if we create thousands of jobs at the site and bring in a civil servant who will ensure that the person concerned is not willing to fulfil his obligations and is unable to earn money to start working, that someone will start working. I think it's a really naive idea that doesn't really work. Plus, sometimes those people work in black jobs somewhere, but then they don't admit it, or it's some kind of income that goes completely out of the system and doesn't show up at all. So I would ask very much if it could be answered before the general debate is over. I understand that the Minister may not want to answer legal objections, which I would still understand is that we are able to tune in between the first and second readings, and I tried to prove here last time - and everyone can find my speech - what are the cute things in terms of terms and other things, how much we want from the people we look for, that it is necessary in some way to help them, how much we actually want them to do, how much paperwork, office, how much they have to report, what they have changed in eight days, and similar and similar things. But, let's see, I understand that we are able to resolve between first and second readings if there was enough time for that, which obviously is no longer and clearly will not be. I think the law will, at best, end up like the previous one, that we'll extend the deadline by 20 days, and the secretary will say, "I'm done, I've got the law by reading it first." And the sněmovna takes a breather and says, well, we're not gonna worry about this kind of thing anymore. It's a possible compromise. I consider it pointless because I think that here it is not only legal and factual problems, but that here it is a completely conceptual problem that comes with the idea that the state is to build thousands of new apartments, the state is to supervise housing, the state pays a single levy, a single contribution, and the whole system is set up in a uniform way. I just don't think it can work that way, and if we try, it always ends badly. The problem is that the help that is to go to the needy is to go in place and in time and in the finances that are common and necessary in that place. And no one can determine it centrally for Prague 1 and 2 as well as for Ash or Jablunkov. It just can't be done. And the more we try, and the more we introduce these normalists into the state, the more complicated we get. Instead of what we'd be able to say to the municipalities, they have some trust, or we'll add some money to them, so we're still trying to create unified state systems, and then we're so surprised that they're not working for us. Because the country is a bit diverse and the conditions in the individual places are very diverse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u21	Thank you. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová. Mr. Chairman. Madam, please, the President is a gentleman and he will give you priority as a lady. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u22	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say some of the things that have been said here by my previous speakers, that although this is a right-wing opposition, I also agree with them in some respects. I also have to say that, as a KSČM, we have long called for a high-quality draft law on social housing to help address the escalating housing situation of citizens who are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. At first, however, let me say, although my previous speaker here has been told that these are matters relating only to some regions, yet I dare say a few figures from 2015, which are statistically documented. 606 socially excluded localities and approximately 700 residential hotels were identified in 2015. However, not all hostels are only socially excluded people. The total number of sites doubled from 310 to 606 compared to 2006. The number of sites increased in all regions, in the Karlovy Vary and Moravian-Silesian regions there was a triple increase. There has also been an increase in the number of socially excluded persons and it can be assumed that the current population has increased from 60,000 to 80, 95 to 115,000 compared to 2006. Most socially excluded persons were added in the Ústecký Region and Moravian-Silesian Region. More than half, 51 percent of all locations were created by natural removal and another 35 percent were created by controlled moving. [[18.30 hours]] Let me again give examples for the Ústí Region. There was an increase in the number of socially excluded localities in the Ústí Region. 63 were identified in 2006, the 2015 analysis refers to 89 locations. In connection with this, the number of socially excluded persons has also increased, and the 2006 study lists 21 to 22,000, and the Gabalův analysis shows that socially excluded persons are currently between 36 and 38,000. Socially excluded sites occur in 71 percent in all municipalities with extended scope, i.e. 145 municipalities out of 205. The most socially excluded localities in the Ústí Region are in the district of Rumburk, here we have 14, and further we have socially excluded localities transferred to smaller municipalities to a greater extent. The average number of people living in socially excluded localities is decreasing in the Czech Republic. In the Ústí Region it is the opposite - an increase of 41 percent on average to a socially excluded locality. The government submitted a draft law on social housing, which was already in the performance so called. The concept of social housing meets with great criticism. The draft bill submitted to the Chamber of Deputies is significantly modified against the concept and fundamental changes are made here, which we can call a compromise between the cooperating ministries, if you can say so, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, the Ministry of Regional Development and also the Ministry, pardon, the Ministry of Human Rights and Equal Opportunities. According to the Ministry of Labour, the law currently targets between 115 and 120 thousand. population of the Czech Republic, which represents about one third of citizens who are at risk of poverty or social exclusion. These citizens often include seniors, singles, but also low-income citizens. The law, as it is written, brings more questions than answers, and unfortunately, it is rejected by the authorities. It is seen as further suppression of self-government and its decision-making powers. According to the information available, the municipalities are not interested in entering the system, solving the necessary problems in practice and rather bringing administrative and financial burdens. I see one of the main pitfalls in decision-making institutions about the need for social housing. The municipality, the employment office, the State Housing Development Fund. However, if the municipality or the city does not enter the system, it may decide on the State Housing Development Fund's social apartment. How would this contradiction be dealt with in practice? I do not think that the relevant municipality would identify itself with this decision without expressing its opinion and position in any way. I think a decision lawsuit could become a standard. An example can be seen in the Ústí Region. There is a real concern that the numbers I gave you a moment ago may increase even more because of the decision on the need for social housing and will be intended for clients from another region or region, which would lead to a deepening of residential segregation. I'm not talking about any other related expenses to this law. I'm sure these expenses won't cover this bill. There is also a large question mark on the very way of obtaining apartments in the necessary locations. We understand the construction, there is probably a clear reconstruction, but what about when buying apartments from private owners, often real estate agencies and often natural persons, which are also from another region or from another part of the Republic? We still have the lowest housing prices in the Ústí Region. How will the Ministry of Regional Development then guard the price at the usual place, which will play a role in the purchase of flats under the Public Procurement Act? We do not need construction in the Ústí Region, we have enough apartments available and that is our problem. How will an artificial increase in housing prices be avoided? What's cost-effective for the state? What are the criteria for buying apartments in the sold housing fund of municipalities? We are in favour of the creation of a social housing network, which would only be under the control of the municipality or owned by the State in the care of the relevant municipality. We see the introduction of a non-profit sector into this area as further obstruction of state control over the use of the most necessary. Unfortunately, I must say that the compromise tabled by two ministries, namely three, in the form of a proposal for a social housing law, does not bring the desired help to people who are in need of housing or are at risk of social exclusion and poverty. It brings only a lot of concerns about the implementation of this law in practice and all its implications for the citizens themselves. And let me also respond to your speech through you, Mr President, to Vice-President Bartošek. His questions are really real. And when I did that assessment with the people at the employment office, we came to the same conclusion. About 20 percent of clients in the district of Most in material distress are seniors. In fact, these seniors would immediately lose their housing contributions at some point in time. Next, we have singles, low-income people. And these people would have to have a social housing status so that the contributions would go to them. Of course, the fact that the housing allowance and the housing supplement would merge into one, we can call it that, because it might have made it whole and made the system more transparent. But on the other hand, say that if you don't have a social housing status, you're not getting any allowance, so we're not really aiming at 120 grand here. population, but about half a million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u23	Thank you. Mr. Adamec. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, when the numbers were calculated here, I thought of something else. Those municipalities that run the social housing in their own regime today - what would be the next step? The State would have paid for the differences, or it would have said: you did that to each other back then, that would have been another cost. I'm sure the Treasury Secretary would say, "No, since they've been paying for it so far, let's keep paying for it..." There's another inequality. So I think there really is a lot of preconceivedness, and it needs to be prepared so that, of course, there is a good preparation by the Ministry and an agreement on the government and a proper discussion in the House. I really think that we're sewing something with a hot needle and the consequences and consequences that will come along can be fatal, or even such that the new government that comes out of the new parliamentary elections in the fall will see what to do with it, because it will simply not be possible under the given conditions. Please support the motion for a resolution. And don't panic if you can fix it. It won't!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u25	I thank the honourable Member for calling us not to panic, even for his speech. prosit, Mr. Chairman of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u26	First a few political notes, then some material. I have really waited a very long time and have played many speakers. I've been waiting for Madam Secretary to perform. I couldn't wait. I'm not entirely surprised, I must say. One. Two. The chairman of the Economic Committee nominated as Minister of Finance - I just read on the servers that he said: I am stingy. I assume it wasn't his personal characteristics, but his concern for public or trust funds. I think that's what you meant, it wasn't a personal trait. And I would like to call on you, Mr President, through the Vice-President, to either vote together with us in favour of rejection or to return to recast. The law is a dangerous socialist experiment that brings tens of billions of senseless spending. Because if we talk about regions facing excluded localities - I will stay in my Moravian-Silesian region, for example. I know there are hundreds, maybe thousands of empty apartments in Ostrava in our county town. There's no reason to build another if we don't want to give jobs through contracts to developers. That is, of course, possible, but it is not entirely effective. Don't trust those optimists who think that when we take it a third time today, the Minister didn't answer those serious questions that he would learn about it during the second reading. It won't be like that. You will be driven by coalition discipline to release it to third reading and then to approve it at third reading. If we had done a trial check-out and log-in, and I would have asked my colleagues from the opposition, from all the opposition parties, not to sign-in, you would have found that, at this extremely important point, I do not think there are 67 government MPs who would have been able to secure a quorum when opposition MPs were shut down. Even the full benches of the government testify to how important this is. [[There are two ministers sitting in the government bench]] It's formal, Madam Secretary, but since she's already declared the fight, I accept it and I will continue to fight it. [[18.40 hours]] I want to say at the beginning that we have three groups of residents that we should protect: seniors, handicapped and then young people who leave children's homes. That's what I think there are groups we're supposed to protect. However, this bill does not allow this, and, on the contrary, it makes it difficult for them to take care of these citizens in particular. Madam Secretary, although she has also worked, and maybe still does, in municipal policy, as if she did not trust those who are active in municipal policy until today, have some experience, whether older or current. So, Madam Secretary, try asking your fellow Member at the Václav Klučka parliamentary club, who was my deputy in the statutory town of Opava, how we dealt with social housing. He's a government MP. Or ask Mr Opálka, who was an opposition representative in Opava. We did it. No state. We even managed together to prevent the creation of hostels in non-compliant buildings in former administrative or office premises. Systematic pressure and the use of all legal means, which the Authority has extended scope from the construction office, the trade office, hygiene and so on. We prevented it from coming into existence. At the same time, we have long supported those organisations that do real social services and care for those who deserve help. They had our support. We didn't do any gigantic projects. For example, for multi-member Romani families, with one nonprofit, we set up apartments that rented the city, guaranteed rent to private owners, and accommodated those families that fulfilled - I must say, we have good experience with this - they fulfilled their responsibilities, including worrying about their children's exemplary attendance at schools. And it worked. It wasn't something that we would declare: we'll sort it out for everyone at the same time. And I trust these little steps, these little projects that almost all city halls do today and every day. Basically, I don't know the village or the city, he's more of a problem of larger cities than small towns that wouldn't solve it. Somewhere more successful, somewhere less, but he's doing his best. And now we have a bill that I think is three times overwritten. There's no obligation, it was completely meaningless. However, it's almost an obligation. We have 2,500 officials to recruit, and we're supposed to build apartments. It doesn't make any sense. Perhaps we could have a debate, Madam Secretary, about how you imagine a social housing system. Because social housing is a system. This is not the number of flats and the number of doses and the amount of doses. So we can talk about how this system is going to be accessible. As one who fulfills the conditions and proves himself, he will advance to a higher degree - from dormitories, asylum housing, conditional rents to housing rentals. That's not what we're talking about. We should make all the work out of the three groups I've been talking about conditional. Even the housing benefits. And today and every day, we hear from our employers that they can't get people. So what are we talking about? Those who can and won't work. And before you use any arguments again, I will repeat: there are three groups of people our right-wing party wants to protect about housing. Seniors, handicapped and young people who leave children's homes. It's not about giving out apartments at all. Let us remember how we have adopted, by a significant majority here, the quite right authority of the municipalities in the creation of the residential hotels and in the payment of the housing supplement. We agreed, I think, in addition to one Member, everyone voted in favour - that then ministers for social democracy should do something that is unheard of. The Minister of the Interior and the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs actually destroyed the law by their interpretation. They said that the obligation that is in the law is not really an obligation, that it is merely a recommendation. Again - ask in the cities where the left-wing town hall is, for example in Karvina. They welcomed it, they invented a system of how to work, they invented a system of how to support those who deserve it, and how not to support those who don't deserve it. These are the two groups - the all-powerful ones who do housing in inadequate spaces, and those who do not try, work and just take. You and your fellow government in social democracy have allowed them to continue to do so. Then we accepted some compromise that wasn't so advantageous. Let's see how it works. Mr. Vilímec has already spoken of this. But that was the first big chance with a big consensus on how to do something about it. Everyone here likes to - I use everyone, I don't say you - we talk about how to fight this naughty business with housing and poverty. And when we came up with some kind of tool together, you guys destroyed it. We're repeatedly saying that the hostel probably has to be. But the community knows very well whether the establishment is run by someone who actually does social services, or by someone who just wants to make money or doesn't care. All you have to do is have a caretaker with a hippo skin and it works. Long term, we say... And if we set a uniform rate of CZK 1,000 per bed and a month in the hostel. That's not enough. Where there are lower prices of flats and lower rents, that's not enough at all. It'll do the job. It won't cost as much money as it has been. And he won't give me and I have to read here the opinion of the Legislative Council of the Government of the Czech Republic, a working committee for evaluation of the impact of RIA regulation. The opposition wouldn't have written it better. Torn from A to Z, from the first to the last paragraph. I'll read you the conclusion first, but then I'll give you the details of the individual opinions of this government material. Given the scale, complexity and complexity of the issue, given the nature of the lack of the RIA report, key problems or main issues which the RIA report has to answer cannot be stated at the end. - In other words, it's such a bollocks that we're not able to produce a final statement. What will Madam Secretary do? Instead of redoing it - I'm giving a procedural motion to rework so I don't forget, because I got so excited in my performance - so she brought it to us, sent it and probably expected us not to read it. But we read it, Madam Secretary. But for you and for those who haven't read it, I dare quote something from the not-so-long message. [[Member Zavadil sits in the first bench and nods his head in dissent.]] The chairman of the Social Committee says no. He had the first to come out here and say: I am the guarantor for social laws, I propose to return it to the Minister, it is terrible, I read the report of RIA, inadmissible, our officials do it under the excellent service law. Even the Legislative Council of the Government belongs to the Ministry of the Czech Social Democratic Party. He's not even a bad opposition partner. They're their own people. I'll skip the introduction. Maybe one sentence. The proposal assumes that the cost of creating and operating a system in the order of billions... So units of billions and 100,000 people who need apartments. If you divide it well, it actually works for you to build a new apartment for 100,000. I don't know. It's such a heating tent. I don't know. But okay. The proposal envisages that the cost of creating and operating a system in the order of billions will be balanced by savings that will arise by successfully integrating socially excluded people into the labour market, thus the State will not have to provide them with benefits and, on the contrary, it will have tax revenue from their salaries. - I thought it was a long-term interest of the state so that those who can work would work so as not to abuse the welfare system, to be employed, to pay taxes. And if they didn't, if they had low incomes, their employers at least had social and health insurance contributions. But the proponents of the proposal believe that this will not be the case until we adopt the genius bill on social housing, and then everyone goes to work. I feel like it's starting right now - I'm used to saying on CT2, today it's CT Art - Evening. Children's fairy tales. That's a fairy tale, too. Maybe for adults. We'll adopt the law, and those who haven't abused the benefits yet and who haven't worked will all go to work right away. Employers will be happy, no doubt, to stop complaining that they don't have the workforce, not to say that we have to bring them workers from abroad. [[18.50 hours]] Comments and proposals for amendments. Some colleagues have already said that, and I remind you, it's government material. The draft law has undergone significant changes in the basic parameters since the opening of the notice procedure: from the form of the obligation to provide social housing to municipalities, through the stage where the participation of municipalities would be voluntary and the obligation would be taken over by the Ministry of Industry and Trade - the idea that the MPSV would establish an office for the construction of flats and houses is quite original; I know that it is very difficult to find the purpose of further operation of the State Housing Development Fund, so the Ministry has left the idea that it would be a special office, we already have one office, he is not an office, he is a fund, but we are prepared for it - and the obligation would therefore take over the Ministry's office in the form that this office is replaced by the State Housing Development Fund. The RIA report does not explain these fundamental changes in the direction of the petitioner in any way, nor does it describe them as alternatives to the solution, nor does it work with them and respond to them only by changes in the text depending on how the bills were changed. I have the idea that perhaps the Minister said: it will be compulsory for the municipalities. And now she has heard from the mayors completely justified: for no reason. What about it? I'll create an office without justification, without any rational economic, operational considerations. Then she probably found out it wasn't that simple, and then she realized: we have a State Housing Development Fund here. It's not with me, it's with the Minister of Regional Development, but it's handy. No reason again. Madam Secretary, first specific question. How did you get that? How is the variant of the State Housing Development Fund better than the independent office? What is better than the obligation of the municipalities is clear, it cannot be explained, so I cannot ask you to explain fairly. I understand that, and I'm trying to be fair. I quote again from government material: RIA on this bill formally - I underlined this word - meets the required structure of the report. In some sub-topics, it provides detailed calculations, including some uncertainties related to such calculations, and explanations of possible variability. - On the other hand, I must appreciate the language of the officials. Once again: with some uncertainties attached to such calculations and explanations of possible variability. Two and two are four, and now I don't know what the variability is - 3.9, 4.1 - I don't know exactly, but it sounds so learned and so professional. RIA as a whole, as well as many parts of it, continues to be government lawyers, not formally or in content to meet the general requirements and the report also has significant formal shortcomings. - In the first sentence, the government lawyers tell us that he formally satisfies it to write in the second sentence that there are considerable formal flaws. I wouldn't mind if I didn't. I don't care about the content flaws. I know we have an expert here on the search for formal errors, I see Mr. Koníček, who is known for not even missing the wrong numbering of tables and images, but I really mind the content errors. The most important are listed below. Let me quote. One of the key shortcomings of the RIA report is the assumption that the costs of providing social housing and social work associated with it will be balanced by the entry of a part of the supported people into the labour market, thereby reducing the amount of benefits paid and increasing tax revenues. - I just said that in other words. But it's also written by government lawyers. However, the report not only does it not specify the conditions... [[The MP is silent due to the discussion at the rapporteur's table.]] You're talking about the subject, but you're squatting at the table. I don't know if that's quite right. I don't mind. I think it's an important law, and you're disturbing the secretary, and she's sure to miss it. I'll really wait, I'm in no hurry, you've extended the negotiations, we're not under any time pressure. Thank you. Let's do it again. One of the key shortcomings of the RIA report is the assumption - and I would like the Minister to respond to that paragraph when he decides to speak sometime next time - that the cost of providing social housing and social work associated with it will be balanced by the entry of a part of the supported people into the labour market, thereby reducing the amount of benefits paid and increasing tax revenue. However, the report does not only specify the conditions under which such an assumption may apply but does not seek to state them either. - Madam Secretary and her people just decided that if the government majority here voted, people would start working. That's not even a fairy tale anymore, that's - now I don't know how to choose words behind this microphone - really too much optimism, naivety, inexperience, I wouldn't be afraid to say even difficult to explain the argument, difficult to justify some facts. The RIA report does not even try to give examples from the past and, where appropriate, the degree of success when the combination of social housing...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u27	I'm very sorry. I will ask my colleagues and colleagues to transfer their calls to the lobby and let the Prime Minister finish talking.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u28	I can even increase the power of my voice.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u29	That won't be necessary, colleague.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u30	Thank you. So RIA doesn't mention past cases and success rates, where the combination of social housing plus social work in itself led people to find and keep their jobs for a certain period of time longer than a few months, to keep their housing acquired and to get back into society. In the absence of such examples or at least credible sufficiently complex models working with specific conditions, all assumptions on the cost balance of the benefits on which the RIA report is based are inconclusive and cannot be accepted. If such examples or models exist, the RIA report must state them and provide information on the success rate and conditions of integration success. - If I translate it from that hypercorrect official language - because officials serve the government and write the material to the secretary, they made it up: they have nothing to prove it. That I translated into general Czech this text from official Czech. The description of the problem is general, short-cut, incoherent, difficult to understand, and neither provides sufficient information partial, nor an overall picture of the problem the law seeks to solve, its causes and scope, and therefore it is not possible to assess in other parts of RIA the extent to which part of the problem and its causes it wants to eliminate or improve, and RIA does not only do so but cannot do so. - Let's try to translate it into general Czech. I guess if I didn't want to be completely sharp, he said the lyrics were meaningless. Try to replace it with one word when government lawyers tell you that it's general, short-cut, incoherent, hard to understand, it doesn't provide sufficient information or a complete picture of what they actually want to deal with, government lawyers write. And the third time we've been suffering from this material here, the Minister is wise to nod his head, he's probably thinking about it, and he's going to want to convince us that the description of the problem is concrete, complete, coherent, well understood and provides sufficient information, and provides an overall picture of what the law is trying to solve, what its causes and scope are. I firmly believe that the Madam Secretary will at least try to do so in his performance. I have to say, if the officials write me an evaluation like this, I'll take the material, I'll put it on the head of the state secretary and all the employees of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs who are under the service law, and I'll say, "Not like this, look at what the MPs will read about me, not just the ones we like most, the coalition partners, but also the opposition partners." Madam Secretary, the fact that you admitted that we were reading this material at all shows that - certainly you, who else, who submitted the bill to the government, we certainly did not - that you were actually relying on us not to read it. But those who provide social services read it, don't worry. They instructed us in time to read it and concentrate on the ruthless evaluation by your minister's lawyers, not your ministry, who are responsible for the pasquil that came here, but for how the law is written and how it is evaluated. [[19.00 hours]] The RIA seems to indicate that the problem is the lack of housing supply at a sufficiently accessible price level for certain groups of residents, but it can also be assumed that the problem is a lack of funds for certain groups of residents, and they are difficult or at all unable to secure housing on the housing market. The problem is also considered so called. trade in poverty - that is what I was talking about a moment ago - homelessness, negative phenomena in socially excluded localities, inefficient, non-motivative and expensive social welfare system for housing and many other generally mentioned partial problems, but their analysis based on empirical data is not included in the RIA. It's not contained. Since social housing is targeted at certain specific population groups...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u31	Mr. Chairman, I ask my colleagues to stop making noise.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u32	I think that other Members also have the opportunity to sign up and, if necessary, oppose government lawyers. I'm just reading it. I didn't write that. I'm not usually that sharp to the government, I wouldn't dare. I don't know if it was for Minister Dienstbier or Minister Chvojka yet, but it's really nutritious material, and we need to let the public know that the Government's Legislative Council is working honestly. Since social housing is targeted at certain specific population groups whose simple list of RIA reports e.g. on str. 15 or, on page 33 to 36, the RIA report shall describe problems broken down into these specific groups, the causes or contexts of the problems of these specific groups, as well as the extent and causes why the existing instruments are not functional, dysfunctional or inadequate for each specific group. In the chapter describing the problem, an estimate of the extent of these target groups is probably correct and with acceptable accuracy, but there is no information, arguments or evidence to describe and explain the causes and different specific needs of each group in relation to the existing system. The chapter therefore does not allow itself to take a framework picture of the initial situation and to assess whether the proposed measures target real problems, their causes and whether they do so to a sufficient degree. - this paragraph, as government lawyers write. [[unintelligible]] This Chapter of the RIA does not allow for a framework picture. In other words, there's nothing at all. We cannot make a picture of ourselves, and therefore, quite rightly, when we cannot make an image of how we can evaluate the proposed measures if we do not know what to do, why we are to deal with it, but we know that we are to build apartments and adopt two and a half thousand officials. In the chapter, homeless people (living in shelters or hostels) are listed among the target groups, whose needs for characteristics and causes of not having housing and having difficulty in obtaining or maintaining them are fundamentally different from those of other target groups. Seniors, families with small children, people who suddenly lose their jobs, people who have long-term illness etc. These differences are not stated by the RIA and do not work with them, although the nature of the housing problems of the individual sub-groups as well as the potential and willingness to address these problems vary considerably between these groups. - In other words, this paragraph confirms our claim and our political idea that there are groups that deserve support and assistance and are completely different from those who do not deserve it, and the questions raised by Vice-President Bartošek and some other Members here are justified. The bill really wants to withdraw support from those who deserve it. That's just a fact. Madam Secretary, I'm asking why. Why don't you take these examples, the family of the seniors, 2,000, 3,000 a month, and then say, "we raised our pensions by 300 crowns, that's us"? Three hundred crowns! But I'll take 3,000 or 2,000 to make it correct from the calculations. These are the calculations of your coalition partner, Vice-President of the House of Bartošek. I didn't control them, and I have no reason not to believe him. That's nice, isn't it? I take $2,000, I keep my mouth shut about it, and then I add $300. That's still minus 1,700, and that's not small money. The RIA report in the Troubles section often only lists the current situation without stating and explaining, the less so in the context of the problems of individual specific groups, in which the current state is inadequate, inadequate or problematic. See Chapter 1.2.2.8. providing a list of types and forms of social work or Chapter 1.2.2.4. indicating the offer of social housing, etc. Praise. First. The RIA rightly states that the problem of social housing is a relationship between housing and demand. - We wouldn't have thought of that. Housing is a problem of housing supply and demand. It's a good thing we have an MPSV. I remember that legendary international treaty we agreed that a woman is a female and a child is a minor. Do you remember, Madam Secretary? To be fair, Madam Secretary said it's what our union wants us to approve. Long-term. Perhaps that's what President Zavadil was asking for. So we approved it. We're clear now. Now we know that housing is a problem of housing supply and demand. But the government lawyers appreciated it, Madam Secretary. That's really nice. However, this relationship is not analysed - it is not - and is described to a limited extent. For example, the RIA report almost ignores the causes of insufficient supply of available apartments for people in shelters, nor does it address the specific nature of the demand of different groups at risk of loss of housing. Madam Secretary, ask your colleagues, e.g. Social Democrats, how asylum housing is dealt with. In many cities they are houses owned by cities and municipalities, they take care of operations and nonprofit organizations, respectable, Salvation Army, charity run these houses, provide social services and it works. So it's not like the communities didn't know anything until now. I've said before that I don't really know a city that doesn't pay attention to it, because that's a real problem, and every council is handling it regardless of the political composition of the coalition in that city. Therefore, even in other parts of the report, it cannot work with changes in the demand of each target group due to the adoption of a new adjustment, and even those partial conclusions or quantitative estimates are somewhat unbelievable. - In other words, totally unbelievable. This cannot be written by government lawyers, but a rather untrustworthy assessment is indeed steep. In other words, we don't know what can happen. We do, actually. We will spend money, take it from those who need it, and we believe that those who abuse social benefits will go to work. I don't believe it. In general, the report states that social housing problems concern physical availability. Apartments are not, or are, but are not offered or are in inappropriate locations, financial availability, apartments are, but for a given group too expensive, and discrimination, owners do not want to rent some group apartments. The RIA report does not reveal what the composition of these partial problems is, nor can it be indirectly estimated to what extent and which groups are related to these partial problems. - I know, Mr. Chairman. [[19.10 hours]] The entities concerned are not sufficiently identified and are not described in such a way that the RIA can continue to work with their characteristics. Instead of being characterised by individual target groups and the nature of their demand for social housing, respectively. their specific problems, a list of target groups without qualitative characteristics is listed at different sites of the report and quantification is made as an estimate of persons by group which do not correspond to the target groups referred to elsewhere. In addition, with the indication that the individual groups for which quantification is carried out may overlap. In fact, even though I've read it three times, for the first time out loud, I don't know exactly what those government lawyers were going to say in this paragraph, except that they're still saying: insufficient, unbelievable, aren't estimates. I have completely misunderstood the meaning of this paragraph. But the paragraph concludes with the sentence: This is an aspect whose seriousness would likely be demonstrated by a detailed analysis of the actual situation, which, however, in the analysis of RIA - what? It's not! - So again, we have a list of many sentences, many maybe in quotes of good ideas, but government lawyers say that there's no way to judge it at all. The target state is intended to describe in particular the extent to which, in the manner and parts of the problem described earlier, the proposed regulation should be resolved. Instead, in the report presented, the target state describes regulation itself and not how the situation will improve, what target groups and to what extent. The solution options represent another major deficiency processed by the RIA. The translator proposes variant zero, current state, and variant 1, new design. Although the regulatory proposal has changed several times during the processing process and the previous discussion, the options for solutions do not work with these changes, do not evaluate them, do not discuss them, even no information about them in the RIA report. Therefore, it is not possible to assess whether the changes that have been made during the negotiations are better or worse. - And when we say to each other completely, how it normally works in life, if we don't know if changes are for the better or for the worse, they're definitely for the worse. If they're for the better, I'm sure someone will write it down and try to justify it. I mean, I got about 20 percent in the RIA quality rating. I'm 80 percent short, and it would be a shame if we didn't hear the other 80 percent. I have a few suggestions at this point - I'm gonna take a break for a while. I've already made a procedural motion to re-work - that's such a merciful procedure. Then I suggest we extend the deadline for 20 days to 80 days. If some optimists think you can fix it, at least you can't make it. I suggest to the Minister that she or her office take the time to answer the many questions that have been raised here. And so allow me, on behalf of the Civic Democratic Party MEP, to ask for a break at the club's meeting so that we can prepare further questions on this bill for hours and 48 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-17-ps2013-057-02-007-075.u33	I thank the President, I respect his request for a break, and I interrupt the House meeting by 9 a.m. tomorrow morning, when we proceed with the letter of reply to the written interpelation. Have a good evening.
