ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u1	7. Government bill on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Sb., on administrative fees, as amended (Law on the Protection of the Monument Fund) /Smummal print 666/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal presented by the Minister of Culture will be given by Daniel Herman. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u2	Thank you. Mr President, colleagues, let me remind you of the most important of what has already been said in the first reading and some of the circumstances and the reasons for the processing, on the Government's proposal for a law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of monuments. The new legislation highlights the public interest in the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund and creates conditions for the care of this fund linked to the core related laws, in particular to the administrative rules, the construction law, the law on basic registers, the new Civil Code, the cadastral law and others. At the same time, it aims to make the system of monument care more flexible and efficient by using information technology and to contribute to the transparency of the whole area. The bill also brings a number of very important changes, which are mainly the following: Uniform declaration of landmarks, i.e. conservation reserves and conservation zones, measures of a general nature. Possibility by the State to compensate the costs of property owners in conservation and conservation zones. Establishment of tools to respond to non-compliance with the obligations of the owner of the cultural monument or the owner of the property. The obligation to process comments by the professional organization of conservation care in the recovery only in the essential legal cases. Modification of the conditions for carrying out a constructional historical survey, only in the context of the restoration of cultural monuments, and the abolition of a declaration for cultural monuments. Modification of archeology, in particular the implementation of archaeological research including the introduction of archaeological research projects as an important control mechanism and an element of some predictability of the impact of archaeological research on the builder. Regulation of sanctions in accordance with new legislation in the field of offences. Let me remind you that the Ministry of Culture has invited various entities in the area of conservation care or entities affected by the care of the conservation fund from which the expert team has been composed throughout the period since the processing of the material intention. And although there are and will be reservations about the bill by some groups and individuals, the proposed law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation of the conservation fund has also gained broad support from important institutions dealing with conservation care or for which conservation is an essential activity. The proposal was also repeatedly discussed separately with regional representatives. As regards second reading, I welcome the recommendation by the Guarantee Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports The Chamber of Deputies to agree with the bill as amended by the amendments adopted, which are in agreement with the amendments of the Sub-Committee on Culture, and that other amendments were not adopted by the Committee. I believe, my dear colleagues, that the bill which is long-awaited by comprehensive legislation replacing the existing Act No. 20/1987 Coll., on State Monument Care, and bringing important changes to better and more effective care for the conservation fund, you will support. Thank you for your attention and understanding.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u3	I thank the Minister. We ordered the proposal in the first reading to discuss the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports as a guarantee committee. Furthermore, the press was assigned to the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development as a further committee. The resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports Committee was delivered as House Press 666/2. The record of the Public Administration and Regional Development Committee was delivered as House Press 666/1. I now ask the rapporteur of the guarantee committee, Mr Roman Procházka, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and to justify any amendments. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Science, Education, Culture, Youth and Sports No. 205 of 26 January this year. The Committee on Education, Culture, Youth and Sports, following the reasoning of Deputy Minister Ouroda for the Ministry of Culture, the report by Mr Roman Procházka and after the debate, first recommends: The Chamber of Deputies agree with the Government's proposal for a Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Coll., on administrative fees, as amended, the Act on the Protection of the Monument Fund, House printing 666, as amended by these amendments. I'm not gonna read you these suggestions right now. You have them all in print 666/2 and you have them all at your disposal. He also instructs the President of the Committee of Mr Zlatuška to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. He also instructs the Committee rapporteur, Mr Procházka, to deliver this resolution at the Chamber of Deputies meeting, which I am doing. Thirdly, the rapporteur of the Committee instructs Mr Procházka to make appropriate legislative technical adjustments in cooperation with the Legislative Department of the Chamber of Deputies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u5	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I now ask that the rapporteur of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, Mr Stanislav Berkovec, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u6	Please, Mr. Ambassador, go ahead.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let me introduce you to the resolution of the Committee on Public Administration and Regional Development, which was adopted at its 51st meeting following the reasoning of the engineer Vlastislav Ouroda, the doctor, the Deputy Minister for the Cultural Heritage Section, following the report by Mr Mgr Stanislav Berkovec and following the debate this resolution: He has not adopted a resolution on the House of Press 666. Secondly, it empowers the Committee's rapporteur to brief the Chamber of Deputies in the course of the hearing and has instructed the Chair of the Committee to send the record to the President of the Chamber of Deputies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u8	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Herbert Pavera first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u9	Nice and pleasant afternoon, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Let me ask you to support the amendment, which is registered under number 5762 in the system. Section 87 of this Act states that the costs of rescue archaeological research are borne by the person who caused the need for rescue archaeological research by his activities, except where he carries out construction for the purpose of his housing up to 150 square metres of built-up areas and related buildings necessary for the use of the building for housing. In this case, the costs of rescue archaeological research are borne by the Archaeological Institute, the Monument Institute or the archaeological person. Personally, I think as the mayor of the village, who is meeting each year with the fact that on the grounds where some municipal building or other construction is being prepared in the village, archaeological research is being carried out that a completely archaeological survey should be paid by the Czech State, through both the Archaeological Institute, the Monument Institute and archaeological persons. When I looked at the Minister of Culture, Mr Herman, what about the cost of these archaeological surveys, it amounts to about CZK 350 million a year. I don't think it's so heavy on the state's budget that the state can't meet investors, municipalities, and builders of family houses that have an area of more than 150 square meters. I think it would significantly reduce the cost of construction. This would significantly speed up or simplify negotiations between the monuments and the builder, because they often have to find some agreement in order to conclude a contract on how the builder will pay the costs to the Archaeological Institute or the Monument Institute. If the State were to pay for it, the State would better watch its own costs than just bill them to this very builder. I believe that this is a logical proposal that we can support, so as to make it easier for municipalities, cities and other builders. I will come forward again in a detailed debate on this proposal. Thank you for your understanding and possible support.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u10	Thank you, Mr Paver. Another duly signed is Mrs Jitka Chalánková. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u11	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Allow me to comment on this bill and also to convey the opposition of the professional public. I submit a number of amendments, and I apply a number of amendments, and I have six in order under the number 5791 to number 5796. Let me justify the first amendment. This amendment concerns § 52. The following paragraphs 3 and 4 are inserted after paragraph 2 of the Government proposal: Paragraph 3. The body shall issue an assessment within 30 days of the date of application, in particularly complex cases within 70 days. Paragraph 4. Assessments issued after a period where they are binding opinions in proceedings decided by another administrative authority under another legislation shall not be taken into account. The provisions relating to paragraph 3 of the amendment deal with frequent situations where proceedings conducted under a valid conservation law or procedure in which the authorities of conservation services apply a binding position contrary to the administrative order are being dragged without justification for many months. Such situations threaten the applicant, respectively. owners of cultural monuments and other buildings on landmark reserves and zones in the consumption of property rights. The Government's bill does not treat this situation in any way. The amendment explicitly provides for a period of time for the body to issue an assessment even in particularly complex cases. With regard to paragraph 4, a frequent case is the proceedings in the field of landmark care, where the administrative body of the monument care issues an assessment on a matter which is competent to decide by another administrative authority, in particular the building office in proceedings under the construction law, i.e. a binding opinion. However, if the body does not issue an assessment within the time limit laid down by law, it is understood that the application does not constitute a risk of endangering, damaging or other reducing the historical values of the case and thus of public interest in the protection of conservation values, otherwise it would have issued an assessment in the case. The periods of 30 and 70 days given by the law of the body of conservation care are also sufficient for the assessment of difficult cases. The amendment under which such assessments are not taken into account is a clear incentive for the body of landmark care to comply with the administrative deadlines laid down by law, otherwise it will bear substantive and, in particular, cultural and professional responsibility for any consequences of delay. The proceedings in which the administrative authority of conservation care issues an assessment in a matter which is competent to decide by another administrative authority cannot be exceptional in terms of the actual administrative deadlines implemented by the body of conservation care within the Czech legal order. In the case of separate administrative procedures in which the body of conservation care it issues in the matter of the decision is competent, the owner may apply the provisions against inactivity under the administrative rules. Amendment to Section 51. The entire Section 51 of the Government Bill is amended to the following text: § 51 Statement of the Monument Institute. Paragraph 1. Upon receipt of a request pursuant to § 48, 49 or 50, the conservation authority shall request the opinion of the Monument Institute on the intended work or restoration and shall deliver the request to it. Paragraph 2. The Monument Institute shall examine the application as received and shall not require it to be supplemented. Paragraph 3. The Monument Institute shall deliver written observations to the body of the Monument Care within 20 days of the date of receipt of the request for its preparation. In particularly complex cases, the body may set a period of more than 20 days. However, the total time limit for receipt of observations may not exceed 40 days. Paragraph 4. The body of conservation care shall not issue an assessment until it receives an opinion from the Monument Institute. If the Monument Institute is not expressed within the period referred to in paragraph 3, it shall be deemed to be in agreement with the application in its entirety. Paragraph 5. For the period laid down in paragraph 3, the administrative time limit for the assessment shall not run. General justification. The Government's proposal, which distinguishes in paragraph 2 between situations where the expression of the Monument Institute is mandatory at the national cultural monument, the request for restoration, the monuments with international status, and where it depends on liking for the administration of an official or the Monument Institute, is the other cases which represent the vast majority of the administrative agenda, is a potential source of corruption on both the part of the Administration and the Memorial Institute. This provision is particularly dubious from a professional point of view, for example, in cultural monuments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-21-ps2013-055-01-004-007.u12	I am very sorry, Madame, but the 16th hour is near, when we have a firmly placed other point, which is why I would like to interrupt you. I'm sorry, thank you for understanding. I interrupt the discussion of the Government's draft law on the protection of the conservation of the conservation fund and on the amendment of Act No. 634/2004 Coll. I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. [[16.00 hours]] It's 16 o'clock and we have a fixed point for 16 o'clock, which is
