ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-016-028.u1	28. Government decision on flights and transits of armed forces of other states through the territory of the Czech Republic in 2018 /German press 14/ - first reading This material will be presented by Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-016-028.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleagues, I present to you the material of the Government's decision on the flights and transits of the armed forces of other states through the territory of the Czech Republic in 2018, which the Government of the Czech Republic took note of by its resolution of 23 October this year, Resolution 741, which was discussed by the Defence Committee on 6 December 2017. The subject of the material is basic information about the standard approval process during the crossings and transits of the armed forces of other states through the territory of the Czech Republic according to the Constitution of the Czech Republic, but which is technically difficult to implement due to the frequency and short deadlines of submission of the requirements for crossings and transits, and is therefore presented in this way. By its resolution, the Government authorised the crossings and transits of the armed forces of the European Union States which ratified the Treaty of European Defence Agency, further authorising the crossings and transits of the armed forces of the Member States of the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation and States participating in the Partnership for Peace programme, not least the countries with which the Czech Republic maintains partnership relations. Allowing the crossing will also be possible for the armed forces of other states, but only provided the consent of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Czech Republic will be seen as a reliable and trustworthy partner in this area with our allies by the approved procedure. The Government's decision is also entirely in line with the Ministry's analysis of the existing legislation on the subject, which the Government of the Czech Republic took note of by its resolution No 580 of 22 July 2015. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-016-028.u3	Thank you, Minister. This House Press discussed the Defence Committee, whose resolution was delivered as House Press 14/1. I ask that the rapporteur of the Defence Committee, Mrs Jana Černochová, take the floor, inform us of the committee's deliberations and present a motion for a resolution to the Chamber of Deputies. Madam, just a second. I have an apology here. From 16.15 to the end of the day, Minister Ťok apologizes for reasons of work. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-016-028.u4	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, as has already been mentioned here by the plaintiff of the Minister of Defence, the subject of this press is information on the Government's decision to fly over and transit through the territory of the Czech Republic through the Czech Republic in 2018, which was adopted by the Government on 23 October 2017 in accordance with Art. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Annex V.Part 2.116 (d) (a) the Constitution of the Czech Republic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Government therefore informs the two chambers of Parliament, which may repeal this decision, by a non-conformity resolution of at least one of the chambers. With regard to the practical impact and the number of crossings and transits of the armed forces of other States across our territory, the practice has been such since 2001 that the government has decided on the plan of these flights and transits always for a year in advance collectively, in the case of a year still in addition to this plan and subsequently twice a year Parliament will inform back about which flights and transits have been implemented. The Government's decision on flights and transits ensures that the Czech Republic will be able to meet its allied commitments by creating the conditions for operational crossings and transits in the fulfilment of collective defence. This decision further creates the prerequisites for effective cooperation with partner states, mutual trust, of course for reciprocity in the authorisation of flights and transits of our aircraft or units through the territory of partner states. This is very important, for example, if we need to evacuate our citizens quickly from abroad on a Czech military transport plane in danger of natural disasters or soldiers injured in missions. I would like to inform you that at its 2nd meeting on 6 December 2017, the Defence Committee adopted a resolution which reads as follows: On the decision of the Government on flights and transits of armed forces of other states through the territory of the Czech Republic in 2018, the House's press number 14. Committee on Defence of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after the opening speech of the Minister of Defence of the Czech Republic Mgr Martin Stropnický, Chief of General Staff of the Army of the Czech Republic Army General . Josef Bečvář, Chairman of the Committee Mgr Jana Černochová and after the debate first recommends The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to take note of the Government's decision on the flights and transits of the armed forces of other states through the territory of the Czech Republic in 2018, House's press number 14, Secondly, instructs the Committee's rapporteur to familiarise the House of Deputies with this resolution, which I am doing; Thirdly - of course, to choose a form through the President of the House. After the debate, Mr Vice-President, I would still be allowed to sign up for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-016-028.u5	I thank the rapporteur of the committee, Jana Černochová. I am opening a general debate in which I have no application other than Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-016-028.u6	I would just like to draw the attention of my new colleagues in addition to my news report, which is why I signed up for this on my own, that the practice of deciding on the flights and transits of other states through the Czech Republic is not entirely ideal in terms of the Constitution. There is indeed some even more rigid interpretation that the government thinks should decide each flight and passage separately. Of course, as I said, that's not real, no matter who's in that government. For this reason, because, in some cases, they actually have to make decisions in the order of hours, perhaps even minutes, so for this reason alone, I am calling upon and please you, if we agree on the Ministry of Defence or on the parliamentary initiative that we would like to have this part of the Constitution - and I am glad that the members of the Constitutional Legal Committee are also listening to me - that we need to change this part of the Constitution. Of course, the Constitution should be changed ideally if there is agreement across the political spectrum, which may be here, so that the text of the resolution in question really comes into line with practice and that this practice is not contested, even though this process has been going on for seventeen years. But I think that we are legislators from bringing things together, and I think that the Constitution is exactly the document that should really be absolutely strict in this regard. So thank you and I will expect a proposal either to be made by the future Secretary of Defense or to be submitted under some initiative by Members. I would argue that the Constitution should really change from the government's initiative. We have proposed this on the initiative of Members in the last parliamentary term, but that is only because we have very little time left until the end of the parliamentary term. Thanks for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-016-028.u7	Thank you, ma'am. Minister Martin Stropnický applied for the floor. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-016-028.u8	Thank you, Mr President. In all brief, I would like to support what has been said here. We tried to do it in different stages of the past period. There would be at least one other issue in the Constitution concerning the amendment of the military. It's more of a challenge. I think this is a rational proposal based on common practice, and we are now moving on an ice that is not illegal, it is not unconstitutional, but it is not ideal at the same time. It's beyond development. So if a group were to be set up here to deal with any minor amendments to the Constitution, I also very much intercede for this matter to be dealt with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-12-12-ps2017-004-01-016-028.u9	Thank you, Minister. Do we have anyone else for the general debate? I don't see anyone in plenary or on display, so I am ending the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I don't see anyone either. I'm ending the debate in detail. Is there interest in final words? Mr. Secretary? The rapporteur is not interested in the final word. So we will vote on the motion for a resolution. Let us vote on the motion for a resolution as tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, I will vote immediately. Initiating vote. Who's in? Who's against it? Voting number 27, 178 Members of Parliament, for 121, against 11, abstained 46. As a result, the resolution was adopted. I'm done discussing this point. Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur and we will proceed to discuss another point which is:
