ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-006-006.u1	6. Government bill amending Act No. 281/2002 Coll., on certain measures related to the prohibition of bacteriological (biological) and toxin weapons and on the amendment of the trade law, as amended /German press 1055/ - second reading Under the Government's authority, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka will give the bill to which I hereby give the floor. Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-006-006.u2	Thank you. Mr Vice-President, honourable Members, if you ask yourself why this proposal is tabled by the Prime Minister, I must say that this proposal has been developed professionally in cooperation with the State Office for Nuclear Safety, which is therefore an independent authority, and I have therefore covered this matter from the perspective of the legislative process as Prime Minister. I would just like to remind you very briefly that the government is responding by this amendment to the fact that our current legislation does not reflect the requirements of certain UN Security Council resolutions, particularly in the area of the security of certain biological and toxin elements, their security against alienation, also in the area of the ban on financing activities aimed at developing, producing, holding and further handling biological and toxin weapons. This is therefore an implementation of the requirements of UN Security Council Resolutions, whose exact description can be found in the explanatory memorandum of the proposal. The common denominator is the effort to increase the so-called biosecurity, security in the area of the handling of this type of weapon. The law also responds to some experience from the practical application of existing legislation. The proposed wording of the law makes the terms clearer and overall increases the legislative level of a number of provisions of the law. At the same time, it should lead to a reduction in the administrative burden on all the entities concerned due to the abolition of declarations of planned activities. The amendment also simplifies the handling of vaccines and diagnostic kits containing high-risk biological elements. The amendment also lays down the lack of requirements for the security of biological elements and toxins against alienation and possible misuse. The obligations in the field of the disposal of these substances are also further clarified. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I would like to ask that this proposal be released by the third reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-006-006.u3	Thank you, Prime Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution has been delivered to you as House Press 1055/1. I ask that Mr Petr Kudela, Mr. Petr Kudela, take his place as rapporteur for the economic committee, inform us of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. You have the floor, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-006-006.u4	Hello, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable members of the government. We are discussing the House Press 1055. It is a matter of rights and obligations of natural and legal persons related to the possession, handling, storage, securing, trading, registration of substances that could be used as biological or otherwise similar weapons. The aim of the amendment is to update the current wording of the Act. The updating of the Act is based on experience gained with its practical application in the exercise of control and on the process of international negotiations under the Convention on the Prohibition of Biological Weapons and on requirements for the security of chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear substances and materials. The proposed wording of the Act clearly defines the conceptual apparatus and increases the formulation and legislative level of a number of provisions of the Act. At the same time, it brings a reduction in the administrative burden on all the entities concerned. The amendment also simplifies the handling of vaccines and diagnostic kits containing high-risk biological substances, expertly using the word agens. The amendment also responds to recent developments in the area of administrative punishment, when it amends the provisions in question...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-006-006.u5	Mr rapporteur, I am sorry. Could I ask the club presidents to move their discussion somewhere else instead of in front of the speaker's counter? Thank you. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-006-006.u6	The amendment also responds to recent developments in the area of administrative punishment, where it amends the provisions in question in accordance with the wording of the Act on Liability for and Procedure for Infractions. In the area of the management of biological agents and toxins, the amendment of the Act sets out the missing requirements for the security of biological agents and toxins against theft and possible abuse. These requirements result from Article IV of the Convention on the Prohibition of Biological Weapons and from the Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament and the Council, respectively. the Council conclusions on strengthening chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear safety in the EU. At the same time, the amendment should fully correspond to the requirements for individual States set out in the UN Security Council Resolution 2004 on the non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery, respectively. Resolutions 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2012, and obligations arising from the article of the Convention on the Prohibition of Biological Weapons, respectively. non-proliferation of biological weapons. The proposed legislation therefore takes into account international developments that have taken place in recent years in the area of the prohibition of biological weapons. The maintenance of the existing text represents the preservation of space for the different interpretations of many provisions and the resulting different approaches to the fulfilment of the obligations arising from the law. The law concerns a very narrow circle of subjects, whether state or private. The supervisory authority shall be the State Nuclear Safety Authority. The registration of entities in this market moving is carried out by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The area affected by the law is interdisciplinary. It's about health care. For example, the State Health Institute keeps a collection of strains of viruses and bacteria, etc. It concerns laboratories for the food industry and its supervision. It concerns laboratories for the feed industry and its supervision, etc. Subjects to be affected by the new standard shall be agreed with its discussion. The bill was sent to Members as press 1055 on 14. 3. 2017. The Organizing Committee recommended discussions in the Economic Committee and designated Mr Kudel as rapporteur. The first reading took place on April 5, 2017. The Committee on Economic Affairs was designated by the Guarantee and Single Committee. The bill was discussed at its 51st meeting on 19 April and adopted a resolution recommending that the Chamber of Deputies discuss and approve the House's press, as amended by the Government Bill submitted; empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the proposer and the legislative department, to make legislative technical adjustments in the draft law which do not affect the substance of the draft law; Instructs the Committee's rapporteur to present a report at the Chamber of Deputies meeting on the results of the discussion of this proposal in the Economic Committee; Instructs the Chair of the Committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies. At the same time, I would like to apologise and thank Mr Pilný for presenting the report at first reading at the House of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-006-006.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which I do not see any written application at the moment. I'm asking if anyone's interested in getting out of this place. It's not like that. I am ending the general debate. I'm asking if there's an interest in final words. It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate, until this moment no one is registered. I'm asking if anyone's interested. I don't see anyone. I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking again for interest in final words. It's not like that. So I'm saying we've exhausted this point. I finish second reading of this proposal and thank you all. We have four minutes left to negotiate. I'm asking the plaintiff if he's interested. I've been informed that the club presidents' agreement is to comply with the 19th hour of today. For this reason, I think there is no point in opening another point, and I am interrupting this meeting on Wednesday 17. 5. 2017, when we continue the 9.00 points from the third reading block. Thank you and have a lovely rest of the evening.
