ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-018-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, as amended, and some other laws /house print 931/ - second reading We have dealt with this proposal on 25 May this year, we have interrupted the general debate. Please have Mr. Martin Stropnický and Mr. Bohuslav Chalupa, Mr. Bohuslav Chalup, take the seats at the rapporteur's table. I'm asking the plaintiff and the rapporteurs if they're interested. The Minister is interested, please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-018-018.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, at second reading, we are discussing a draft law amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence. He's been interrupted at least once, I think, if not twice, it's already a pattern that drags a long-term story behind him, and I appeal to your collegiality, and I believe that the second reading will be successfully concluded today. The fact that the standard is needed is probably not a big dispute, but of course it's kind of a breakthrough, or a novelty, let's say, at all in the area of defense, so I understand that it brings different questions, different controversy, different proposals, etc. But I would ask very much that we take an active and constructive approach to this, if possible. Because it is unbelievable, but almost every time we deal with this topic, there will be some relatively massive cyber attack in the days immediately past, as it was yesterday in Ukraine, and not just Ukraine. So, about the need to move this material, I don't think there's a dispute. There were a number of questions during the previous discussion, some of which were asked by Mr Stanjura, the President of the House of Deputies here, some Mr Skalický, who is not here, so I will at least allow myself to answer them quickly, because there really were a number of questions, at least at a speed to the more important ones, at least as I captured them. The topic has been raised here, whether to regulate legislation first and then to create skills, which is the path we have chosen, or whether it would not be a better way to go the other way, which was Mr Stanjura's proposal. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in those countries - and these are, that is, the allied countries - where this was the case, these abilities were created without legislative attachment, they were operated under a high secrecy regime and only after their publication, e.g. The famous case of Edward Snowden, these states are trying to treat the whole area and legislation. But frankly, I cannot imagine that in the Czech legal environment it would be possible to carry out activities within state institutions for which the institution would not have a legal mandate. And so I clearly think that our path, when we first change legislation, or we create rules for that activity, binding rules, and then we build specific capabilities, is the right one. We are trying to adapt legislation so that at this time, when technical development goes relatively dynamically forward, it also does not prevent the performance of cyber defence even in the future, without the need for significant adjustments. Because I would also like to reply to a comment or comment by those who call for a much more specific technical solution. Believe me, we are convinced and guided only by a material motive that this concretation would be essentially again, and perhaps very soon, a brake. Another topic that raised controversy was the question of passive elements or active elements, with the fact that Military Intelligence should admit that, actually, if there is talk of active defense, then there is actually talk of an attack. The border is very thin, very fragile, it smells like, if we use the word attack, it smells like some kind of aggression association, but that's not what I think we all know, it's not here at all. The active defense is, I think, to understand that this is not just a passive reaction, not just a cover, if I compare it to physical self-defense in some classic attack on the body, but that it will also be an active defense, that is, "the wounds will be re-enacted." There have also been comments that the Secret Service is not the subject that should perform such a thing, that the tasks there are primarily in defence and information collection. I just want to stress that we have also prepared this standard in cooperation with our allies or some other states in this area, one might say, for the top, and that they have it handled in a similar way in this respect. [[17.30 hours]] As far as the EU's ICT proposals are concerned, I can guarantee or confirm that we have been in contact with the EU's ICT over the past few months repeatedly, that the two entities are communicating, some of these amendments, I think, also reflect this dialogue. Several meetings of representatives of Military Intelligence with the ICT Union took place and the positions of both parties were discussed. The reasons for the adoption or non-acceptance of individual proposals have been explained. But I dare say that it is not possible to accept such proposals, which will significantly limit the ability of the Czech Republic's adequate defence in cyberspace, or proposals aimed at expanding the circle of institutions with access to very sensitive information regarding location, for example. technical means of cyber defence. I would also like to mention what also appeared as a reservation - liability for any damage caused to operators' customers. I would like to say that, as part of the discussions on liability for damage, it has never been declared that the State would resist compensation for damage caused by cyber defence technical means. The claim for damages was also part of the first amendment proposal. However, in the light of the comments of the Legislative Council of the Government, it was excluded because this, and this is significant, the responsibility of the State is already enshrined in other legal regulations and there is no need to repeat it. On the other hand, the requirement of the Union's ICT under the general responsibility of the State cannot be accepted in the event of damage caused by these facilities. In addition, the fact that operators are already excluded directly by the Electronic Communications Act cannot be ignored without any justification. Therefore, if damage were to be caused to the operator by the conduct of Military Intelligence, it would be dealt with in accordance with general regulations dealing with liability for damage. Next, there's the topic of data storage. We clearly agree as the Ministry that the data obtained in cyber defence must be adequately protected. No argument whatsoever. However, specific data protection rules within the intelligence community are not already being regulated in the law and I do not know any similar law abroad that would accurately impose and thus disclose how the intelligence service is to protect its data. Nor are any amendments aimed at this issue. The proposal refers in general to metadata and it is possible that some of these metadata will be stored and processed for some time as part of the activities of the cyber defence technical means. But I don't think there is, I believe, a legislative solution that would have any real positive significance in this area and somehow contribute to protecting the privacy of citizens, apart from general proclamations without real effect. After all, this can be shown on specific examples. Both the laws governing the operation of the security forces of the State and the Electronic Communications Act and the Personal Data Protection Act impose on processors their data protection against misuse, but they never say exactly what data and how to protect them in particular. So these provisions have no specific effect. It is therefore envisaged that the data processing area will be part of the material to which the government will determine the rules for the use of specific technical means and that it will be possible to deal with the functionality and legitimacy of their processing at the beginning and, at the same time, control compliance with all control mechanisms. Furthermore, some of these remarks concerned the budget. We believe that this increase, which has been done precisely under the influence of the need to fulfil this alliance challenge, which we clearly have as a NATO member, and this budgetary measure for the first phase of the start-up, allows us to implement the matter, with the fact that, of course, in the years following, the amount will have to rise. But even in this, for the next financial year and for the two prospects that we still have to prepare, we are counting on this increase. Furthermore, it is not enough in the law to regulate the relationship between the State and compulsory private entities. And then, a repeated mention of possible damage. I would like to stress that we agree with the request of the EU ICT that, in the event of damage caused by a technical means of cyber defence, the State is obliged to pay for the damage suffered. There's no controversy about that. As has already been said in one of my previous points, this proposal has been removed from the amendment proposal by the Legislative Council for overcapacity, because it is governed by other standards. That, in all brief, would be one of those topics that I remember as controversial or inspiring questions. Maybe even sides of those passive elements, respectively. installation of active elements that could lead to a reduction in the operation of the network or to a failure of the network. Technical means of cyber defense, that is the term for a group of multiple types of means that can be used to prevent, stop and reverse a cyber attack threatening to secure our country's defenses. By exclusive monitoring and analysis it is not possible to fully perform the cyber defense of the Czech Republic, or data collection is not enough. Passive elements would thus only fill one necessary part to secure cyber defense. However, in the event of such a restriction, it would not be possible to carry out the activities for which this element is currently being set up. And we understand the concerns about the technical problems associated with the involvement of these resources in the networks of individual operators, but the process of deploying technical means will be preceded - and I would like to stress this - by a process of negotiation and testing with each operator separately, so as to eliminate any non-standard situations in the operation of the networks. These are the concrete results of the negotiations I was talking about. Individual network operators have experience in implementing active elements, so, in cooperation with Military Intelligence, they can certainly design a method of use that minimises possible network failures. Perhaps so that I may not speak too long and not have your patience, at least to the most important thing I've seen in the last debate. If I've forgotten anything, it'll probably be remembered. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-018-018.u3	Thank you to Secretary of Defense Martin Stropnický. And before we go any further, I'm gonna read an apology. From 16.30 p.m. to the end of the meeting day, my colleague Josef Uhlík apologizes. Now we have intelligence reports ahead of us. First of all, Mr - I'm sorry, I'm sorry, so in that case, Mrs Černochová is reporting with a point of fact, which is why I gave her the floor before the rapporteur. And then, of course, you have a chance to keep talking, if my colleague Chalupa respects it as a rapporteur who has a preferential right, so you can also speak in a proper speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-018-018.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I wanted to ask for what we have already said here, if the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec could be present here when discussing this standard, which quite fundamentally interferes with matters relating to the Ministry. Unfortunately, he's not here. For this reason, I beg to interrupt for ten minutes, fifteen minutes, as colleagues from the ČSSD will be able to get the Minister to be here. Because my questions are directed at the Minister of the Interior of Chovanec and it concerns provisions, virtually. the decision of the Constitutional Court on this matter, when it is the communication of information between the Police of the Czech Republic and Military Intelligence that is being dealt with. For myself and for the ODS club, I note that it is not our intention to be any more or less obstructed, but we are actually discussing a standard that will very fundamentally affect the lives of citizens of the Czech Republic. And I think that Minister Chovanec here should answer our questions at the moment, as should Minister of Defence Stropnický, for which I thank the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-018-018.u5	Thank you, co-worker Černochová. Should I take that as a procedural proposal? Okay. So I'm gonna let him vote on this without a debate. I'll check you out first, ask you for a new registration. Log in with your ID cards. The procedural proposal to suspend negotiations on this point for 15 minutes, if I understand correctly, will be decided in vote number 59. But I'll wait until there's enough logged in. [[Present by board 39, after a moment of 40.]] I ask the President of the MPs to ensure that their colleagues attend the meeting so that we can... I'm gonna sing, I'm sorry, it's true. [[at the request of Members]] I'll try to attract my colleagues. [[According to the board, 44 were present.]] [[After a while.]] At least 19 more colleagues. [[There's 51. Gong again.]] Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club. Please, Mr President, with priority rights.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-018-018.u6	Dear government colleagues, I think that's enough for today. I don't know why you're bothering us so much. Remember the morning words when I told you how many double laws you have. If you are not willing to be here to vote in favour of your proposals, don't worry about the opposition. At this point, I am asking for a break at the meeting of our club for one hour and 17 minutes, and only to end this undignified theatre, where we are waiting at every point for 67 government Members present, you have 111. [[Reactions in the O.R.]] I know I'm telling those who are present. But maybe someday those who are not present will listen to it or read it. I thank those who are present. Of course, the criticism is unfair to them. So, as far as you're concerned, I'm sorry, because you guys are here just as much as we've stayed to this day. And I don't want to hear, I really don't want to hear that somebody's bouncing around. If anybody's building up, it's the government MPs. The absent ones, not the present ones.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-06-28-ps2013-059-02-018-018.u7	I, of course, still have to say to Mrs Jana Černochová's procedural proposal that an apology from the Minister of the Interior has been received since 15 o'clock, so she cannot do the answers. And all I have to do is make a break for the ODS meeting, which the club chairman asked for, and wish you a nice evening with the fact that I am interrupting the item number 18, the government bill amending Act No. 289/2005 Coll., on Military Intelligence, secondly, I interrupt this meeting by tomorrow by 9 o'clock with the fact that we are starting with answers to written interpelations, and it is written interpelation to the Minister of Education and the Minister for Regional Development, it is two interpelations. And at 11 o'clock, we'll continue with the fixed points. So much for today's meeting. Have a good evening.
