ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-001-999.u1	Promise by Members We will take the pledge of new Members to Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová, Jiří Hlavatý and Martin Půta, who gave up their parliamentary mandate on 24 November. First, I will ask Mr Stanislav Grospič's chair of the mandate and immunity committee to inform us of the steps he has taken, and then he has read the Constitution's prescribed promise to the new Members in my hands. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-001-999.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The honourable Members, honourable Members and honourable Members of the Government, on 24 November 2017, with their statement made at the Chamber of Deputies, gave up the mandate of the Member elected for the ANO 2011 movement for the electoral region of Central Bohemia, Mrs . Jaroslava Pokorná Jermanová. On the same day also a statement made at the setting-up meeting of the Chamber of Deputies gave up the parliamentary mandate of the Member for the ANO 2011 movement for the region of Královéhradecký Mr . Jiří Hlavatý and Member of the Mayor's movement and independent for the Liberec Region, Mr . Martin Půta. On that date, their parliamentary mandate expired. At its 3rd meeting today, the mandate and immunity committee adopted a resolution which I was assigned to introduce to you. The mandate and immune committee notes that: 1. on 24 November 2017, the mandate of the Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Ing expired. Jaroslava Pokorné Jermanová, born 17 August 1970, On 24 November 2017, the mandate of the Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Ing expired. Jiří Hlavatý, born 27 July 1948, On 24 November 2017, the mandate of the Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic Ing expired. Martin Půta, born 13 September 1971, in accordance with the provisions of Section 3 (1) (a) and (b). Article 4 (1) (a) and (b) (c) Law No 90/1995 Coll., on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended; On 24 November 2017, the mandate of the Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was established by Mr . Milan Pour, born 6 June 1965, On 24 November 2017, the mandate of a Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was established, Mrs. Eva Matyášová, born 15 July 1959. On 24 November 2017, the mandate of the Member of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic was established by Mr . Petr Pávek, born 13 May 1963. In accordance with the provisions of Section 4 of the Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies, new Members shall take a parliamentary oath. I now ask Mrs Eva Matyášová, Mr Milan Pour and Mr Petr Pávek, to appear before the Chamber of Deputies and to take a prescribed oath by the Constitution. At the same time, I ask the President of the Chamber of Deputies to accept the pledge of new Members. [[The present rise.]] "I pledge allegiance to the Czech Republic, I promise to uphold its Constitution and laws. I promise on my honour that I will carry out my mandate for the sake of all the people and according to my best knowledge and conscience." I now ask Members to join the President of the Chamber of Deputies. [[The new Members come before the President of the Chamber of Deputies and handshake, with the word 'promise' and sign their vows.]] Thank you. Madam Members, I congratulate you and wish you every success in your work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-001-999.u3	Let me once again welcome Mrs Eva Matyášová, Mr Petr Pávek and Mr Milan Pour, and wish them every success in the parliamentary work. We shall now proceed to the designation of the two verifiers of this meeting. I propose that we appoint a Member, Markéta Pekarová, Adamová and a Member, Kateřina Valachová. I'm asking if anyone else has a proposal to identify the verifiers. If that is not the case, I shall begin the vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? This is the number 1 vote, in which 182 Members have been enrolled, for 179, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that we have designated Ms Markéta Pekarová Adamová and Mrs Kateřina Valachová as the verifiers of the second meeting of the Chamber of Deputies. [[14.10 hours]] I have already read the apologies, so we will proceed to the agenda of the second meeting, the proposal of which is presented on the invitation. On the basis of the decision of today's Gremia, I tell you that, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, we have item 32 on the agenda, which are the answers to written interpelations, but to date this item has not been fulfilled. So you can cross it off. Furthermore, the Grémium proposes to include new points in the proposal for a second meeting, namely a request for the consent of the Chamber of Deputies to prosecute Mr Bohuslav Svoboda. Furthermore, item Proposition for a change in the composition of the institutions of the Chamber of Deputies. And then from the Gremium comes the proposal that we point 2 of the draft programme - The draft sitting order of the Members in the Chamber of Deputies - was included as item 4 of the draft programme. Furthermore, paragraph 29 of the proposal for a programme - The proposal for the reimbursement of electoral costs to political parties, political movements and coalitions for elections to the Chamber of Deputies in 2017 - has been included as item 16 of the draft agenda, which is the convening of committee meetings. That's from the Gremium and from my side it's all. And I am now asking, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to comment on this proposal or add further proposals to it. If this is not the case - and I do not see anyone - then I propose voting on the agenda by one vote. Vice-President Hamáček will vote with replacement card number 6. Can we vote? [[Yes.]] Okay, so if that's the case, then we'll... If you wish, Mr President, to clarify which points you want to vote separately - do you want to include the two new ones separately? We will vote on proposals from Gremia - four changes - one vote. Okay. So now we are going to vote on the proposals from the Gremium, as I have made them. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? In vote number 2 registered 185, for 183, against no one. This proposal was adopted. We will therefore now vote on the whole proposal for a second meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended by the approved proposal. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of the draft agenda. Who's against it? In vote number 3 registered 186, for 186, against no one. This proposal was adopted. Thank you. So let's continue with the point.
