ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Government, I am opening another sitting on the 60th session of the Chamber of Deputies and welcome to all of you. I'd like you all to sign up with your ID cards and, if necessary, tell me who's asking for a replacement card. I would like to inform you that the following Members of the Government have asked to apologise for their failure to attend the meeting: Mr Adámek within 16 hours, personal reasons. Mr Babiš working grounds, Mr Běhounek working grounds, Mr Urban Kasal grounds within 16 hours, Mr Blažek without giving any reason, Mr Číp medical reasons, Mr Fiala working grounds - Mr Novotný Josef hlasovat with card number 72 - Mrs Fischerová working grounds, Mrs Golasowská without giving reason, Mr Grebeníček working grounds, Mr Grospič from Zahradníček working grounds, Mrs Hnyková within 17.00 working grounds, Mr Holeček family Zemánek, Mrs Jelonková working grounds, Mrs Lorencová until 15.00 personal Skalický, Mr Vondrášek personal reasons, Mr Koloversovník from 14.30 to 19.00 Kolovratník reasons, Mr Korte working grounds, Mr Váňa working Vozka, Mr Korte cocerek until 15.00 working reasons, Mr Kostřica medical Šrámek, Mrs Nováková from 16.30 to 19.00 working reasons, Mr Nykl medical Kořenek, Mr Korte working grounds, Member of Nytrová work reasons without a Member on Rykala Pastuchová, Member of Parliamentary working grounds, Member of Parliamentary working grounds, on 18.00 reasons, Member of Parliamentary reasons, Member of the case without a Member of the case of the European Parliament of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the European Parliament of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case of the case. Mrs Aulická Jírovcová also apologizes for the whole day for personal reasons. Mr. Vice Prime Minister Bělobrádek apologizes from the members of the government from 16:00, working reasons, Minister Brabec working reasons, Minister Herman - but I see him here. I'll ask Minister Herman... Minister Herman! I assume you're interrupting your apology. [[Minister Herman answers off the microphone.]] So Minister Herman is present and cancels his apology. Minister Chovanec foreign travel, Minister Štech health reasons, Minister Ťok working reasons and Minister Zaorálek also working reasons. So many apologies. Today we should look at paragraph 28, the second reading agreement, which is the House Press 1000, the Canada - EU Treaty, and the points from the report block and others. No proposal has been made from Gremium, and I have two applications so far, Mr Plíšek, and then Mrs Černochová.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the committee of inquiry, I propose that today, as the first item in today's meeting, we include the Final Report of the Chamber of Deputies of Investigation to investigate whether there has been an infringement in connection with the possible unauthorised acquisition of files of law enforcement authorities or information from these files, and whether the information thus obtained has not been used to influence political competition or destabilise the democratic rule of law. I refer to House document 6740 under which this report and the motion for a resolution are contained in the House of Deputies system. I propose this final report as the first item in today's negotiations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u3	Yes. Thank you. Mrs Černochová and Mr Ondráček will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. On 23 May this year, the Chamber of Deputies adopted a resolution to politicize UNESCO on Jerusalem. We have proposed this resolution together with Mr Bartošek and a number of other colleagues. In this resolution, we called on the Government of the Czech Republic to stop all payments of the member contributions of the Czech Republic to the UN Organization for Education, Science and Culture of UNESCO from the state budget this year, and to stop these payments in the years to come, if this organisation continues its hateful rhetoric towards the State of Israel and continues to be subject to politicisation. What didn't happen. After a few weeks, Minister Lubomír Zaorálek sent a letter to the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Hamáček, when he offered to extend the consultations due to some of the votes of the House, which - I quote precisely - are not entirely comfortable with the government's foreign policy applied, can trigger tensions and potential negative effects may harm bilateral relations between the Czech Republic and foreign partners. I was as surprised as most of you who got it, so I turned to the Minister of Foreign Affairs for Interpellation. I asked what the poet was trying to say. What specific resolution has damaged foreign policy interests, which the state and at what level and how it complains about the resolutions in question or in question, and I have learned the following. Minister Zaorálek responded by really instigating the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies, which was critical of UNESCO's policies and which called on the government to consider stopping funding for this organization, unless its politicalization by Arab states has ceased and if they continue their hateful rhetoric towards Israel. Foreign Minister Zaorálek was probably frightened by diplomatic notes, which were retraced by the Palestinian Embassy in Prague, and the summons of the head of the liaison office in Ramallah to explain to the Palestinian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. At the same time, Mr Zaorálek writes that the Czech Republic cannot stop paying contributions to the international organization UNESCO because it would be contrary to international law and therefore contrary to the Constitution of the Czech Republic. [[It's noisy in the hall.]] I have had colleagues and colleagues process an analysis of the Parliamentary Institute whether the failure to pay a contribution by UNESCO would actually violate the Constitution of the Czech Republic or the commitment to respect international treaties. This analysis was not confirmed by the Minister of Foreign Zaorálek. I then intersected the Minister again -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u5	I am very sorry and I ask the House for peace!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u6	- asking what was the content of the aforementioned diplomatic note and what was the content of the explanation of the head of the liaison office of the Czech Republic in Ramallah at the Palestinian Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In response to this interpelation, Foreign Minister Zaorálek stated that the note of the Palestinian Embassy contained concern about the discussion of the UNESCO matter in the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, where the manner of discussion is supposedly not based on historical facts and could create an illusion that Jerusalem is the unified capital of Israel and that the Czech Republic supports - I quote - the occupation and ethnic cleansing practiced by Israel. A concern has also been expressed about the misuse of the name of the Czech Republic in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, as Israel has declared negotiations and resolutions of the Chamber of Deputies a major breakthrough in international politics. At the same time, the government was asked to reject the debate that took place on the plenary of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Colleagues, colleagues, does that seem normal to you? [[There's still a lot of noise in the room.]] There is also information from the meeting of the head of the liaison office of the Czech Republic in Ramallah with representatives -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u7	Once again, I ask the House for peace! Please take your seats on the left and on the right. And those that belong to the right and are now on the left, please move to the right. A fellow Member knows who I mean.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u8	So let me get this straight. Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek threw overboard our largest and historical ally in the Middle East of Israel when he feared the Palestinian position and reprimanded the House. This is not and must not be the foreign policy interest of the Czech Republic! Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek indirectly supports the rhetoric and intentions of countries that are far from democracy and are attacking the only real democracy in the Middle East, namely Israel. Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek shows that he is willing to trample on values that we returned to after 1989, such as democracy and individual freedom. Foreign Minister Zaorálek, by being willing to close his eyes to the politics of UNESCO and hiding behind foreign policy interests, becomes an accomplice to the transcription of history. It is the same as silence when repressive regimes decide in the UN on human rights or women's rights. Foreign Minister Lubomír Zaorálek excuses himself at the Institute of the Czech Republic that it is not possible to suspend contributions to UNESCO. Its interpretation means that the Czech Republic cannot behave sovereignly, like Israel and the United States, which so protest against the unilaterality and politicalization of this UN institution. His statement is very alibiistic and, according to the Parliamentary Institute, there is no violation of the Constitution of the Czech Republic by the position of payment of contributions by UNESCO. Even the UNESCO Institute itself in Part C of Art. 8 itself predicts and regulates the process and consequences of non-payment of the UNESCO contribution. It is strange and alarming that the Minister of Foreign Affairs does not have that information. The Government, as a matter of fact, the Minister of Foreign Affairs should explain and explain to the House how they responded to the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic of 23 May, which they took concrete steps to end the politicalization of UNESCO and to avoid distorting historical facts on the issue of Jerusalem in international terms. At the same time, they should explain how they stood up to the challenge of not paying the Czech Republic's membership contributions to UNESCO, especially when it is not unconstitutional, as the Parliamentary Institute claims. [[Just pointing out the time, my colleague!]] I'm sorry, but I had to stop for a while.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u9	I've given you more time, but it's been really five minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u10	Yes, I'm almost done, Mr. Chairman. I wonder how the government will react or react especially to the note of the Palestinian Embassy, which included, among other things, a threat to the revision of Czech-Palestinian relations and a call for the government to distance itself from the Chamber of Deputies. For this reason, we have - I know this is the last time we are here this week, but this information has really stopped me, and I think that all of you who voted in favour of this resolution should also be stopped. For this reason, I propose today to include in the agenda today's meeting the title of the resolution Ignoring the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the issue of the politicalization of UNESCO by the Government of the Czech Republic and its policy in relation to the State of Israel. Mr President, I propose this point as a fixed point for today as a second point, I suppose, after the report by the committee of inquiry. First of all. And secondly, in the event that the CETA is discussed after the investigation committee report, I propose this point as point number three after the commission, after the CETA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u11	Thank you, and I ask all the performers to heed the rules of the Rules of Procedure, that is, to try to fit in within five minutes. Mr. Ondráček, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the government, esteemed colleagues, that was a cadence of words. My colleague, that's more than a machine gun. I'm definitely gonna be slower, but I'm gonna pick up the machine gun and we're gonna talk about guns. I, ladies and gentlemen, would like to include a new point called Information of the Government on the current problems in the guarded area of Vrbětice. As you may have noticed, the media isn't talking about it that much, but it's very crucial information and a very crucial thing. On Friday, I first noticed that the police accused and apprehended several people who were walking into this guarded space, basically as part of us or most of us into the woods for mushrooms, except they didn't collect forest fruits, but collected machine guns, assault rifles to roll there. And information from the media talks about tens of thousands of pieces. So if we realize that there are 10,000 SA 58 machine guns lying in this area after the explosion, a plethora of ammo and local citizens, possibly. Someone else walks into this guarded space through the holes in the fence, and as they describe themselves, wait until the appropriate guard, whether he's a police officer or who's doing the guard duty, turns around because he smokes there, and goes through the space, collects machine guns, assault rifles, and then continues to deal with them, so I wonder who's watching the guarded space and how he's watching it. I thought that the guarded space should be guarded so that it would be guarded as far as possible, and if anyone penetrated this guarded space so that the service knew about it, she was able to hold it, but not to be able to walk there through a hole in the fence, through a hole in the fence, which is known to them, so I assume that when local citizens know about them, they also know about them, the Police of the Czech Republic, possibly. other security services. And I don't know if it's just the Police of the Czech Republic or the Army of the Czech Republic, or if they've already hired a private security service. I would assume that such fences are also controlled at some intervals, and if they find problems there, they should take all technical precautions so that it cannot happen that anyone comes into this space and collects assault rifles. I would like to ask how we, the Czech Republic, are to be viewed abroad. Abroad, where the Czech, Czechoslovak attack rifles are traded, where terrorist attacks by the hands of Islamic terrorists are committed. We can talk about how these rifles are degraded - and we know that there were problems in Slovakia. But then, what reputation should the Czech Republic have in the eyes of abroad? And I will ask another question, and I would like you to ask yourself this question: How are other spaces guarded? Can anyone infiltrate other guarded spaces without being known by the service? How it is guarded e.g. nuclear power plant and other special purpose objects? This is essential information for me, and I think that this information should also be of interest to you, Members and Members of Parliament of the Czech Republic, because this information will certainly reach abroad, and if it is known about them in the vicinity of this protected area, people who may not always have a collector's or business spirit, and serious violent crime can be committed with these weapons, not only against citizens abroad, but also against citizens of the Czech Republic. So once again, I say a point that I would like to hear today, and it may not be long, either the Prime Minister or the Minister of the Interior, or another authorized member of the government: Information from the government on the current issues of securing space in the guarded area of Vrbětice. If you, my esteemed colleague, are interested in the security of the Czech Republic and this schlendrian, who unfortunately is, I would like to suggest that we place him as the second item in today's meeting, because I assume that the first item will be the final report of the commission of inquiry. Thank you for your support and for listening to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u13	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the Faltýnek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u14	Good afternoon. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, I have a proposal to amend the agenda and, in particular, it is two points of the Minister of Finance, which are under number 82 and 86. This is the information on the public administration control system for the drawing of public funds and point 86 is the analysis of the system for the control of local authorities. If there was a will in the House for technical reasons to put it as point 49, which is the last item of the Treasury Secretary's report block. This means points 82 and 86 to give for point 49, which is an overview of the activities of price control authorities for 2016. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u15	Yes. On the agenda? If you don't, we'll vote. I'll ring the bell and read a few apologies. Mr Šarapatka apologises between 14 and 15 o'clock for working reasons, Mr Skopeček for working reasons all day and Mr Gabrhel between 14 and 15 o'clock for working reasons. Mrs Wernerová has card number 82 and the Prime Minister has card number 83. We will take the vote. First of all, Mr Plíšek's proposal, namely that paragraph 89, which is the final report of the commission of inquiry, etc., should be placed at today's first item. I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's a 110 vote, 128 logged in, 112 against no one. This proposal was adopted. I still need to get something straight with Mrs. Černochová. You said if it's not the second point of CETA, you want it for her. Now it's in the situation that the second point is CETA, if of course we still have to...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u16	Mr President, I have been informed at the parliamentary club that one of the colleagues will try to include the CETA point as item 2. So if the CETA point passes as point two, I suggest that my point be as point three. But before that, I would have competed fair and square to make my point before CETA.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u17	Okay, well, in that case, I'll put it to a vote. This means that the point which is the Ignorance of the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies on the matter of the politicalization of UNESCO by the Government of the Czech Republic and its policy in relation to the State of Israel, so that this point should be included as a new point, namely the second point of this meeting today. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? The vote has number 111, registered is 132, for 43, against 32. This proposal was not adopted. We now have a similar situation with Mr Ondráček's proposal. He wants...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u18	Mr President, the proposal has been made as an alternative. [[- Understood.]] He didn't pass the second point, so it's an alternative. We're gonna vote him third, that's after CETA.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u19	Yes, I'm sorry. This means that we would now vote on the fact that this new item by Mrs Černochová will be ranked as the third item in today's negotiations following the CETA Treaty. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 112, registered 132, for 40, against 36. This proposal has not been adopted. With priority rights, Mr. Chairman of the ODS Club.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u20	Dear colleagues, my dear colleagues, the proposal was helpful so that we should not delay those points that you yourself have identified as the most important today. However, I would like to remind you of the situation we are in. The Chamber of Deputies has committed, by a clear majority, the Government of the Czech Republic to some sort of step, followed by a government or foreign minister who should comply with the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies and who answers to the Chamber of Deputies, will receive a letter from the Palestinec and decide to despise the Chamber of Deputies rather than risking diplomatic note. And you let the majority take it, and you don't want to fight it. It's too bad.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-12-ps2013-060-05-000-000.u21	We will therefore now vote on Mr Ondráček's proposal, which wishes for a new item Information of the Government on the current problems in the guarded area of Vrbětice, for today as a second item. That's how it was designed. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 113, registered 133, for 56, against 23. The motion was not accepted. And President Faltýnek suggests that we place paragraphs 82 and 86 after paragraph 49. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? It's vote number 114, registered 139, for 46, against 28. The motion was not accepted. I believe that these were all the proposals that fell on the agenda here, and so we can open the first point today, that's the point.
