ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u1	18. Government bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions of acquisition and recognition of competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and the pursuit of activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws (law on non-medical health professions), as amended /German press 880/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Miloslav Ludvík, Minister of Health, will present the draft bill. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] My colleague Pastuchová is already at the rapporteur's desk. I just, Minister, state before I give you my word that we ordered the bill first reading to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee and the committee's resolution was delivered as Parliament's press 880/1 and 880/2. [[Minister Louis is ready at the microphone]] I will wait for the House to calm down, and I will give you my word, Minister. I hope that you will transfer the discussions that are not related to non-medical health professions to the lobby and will not disturb the Minister of Health in his presentation. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u2	Mr President, thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, let me briefly mention the discussion of a government bill amending the Act on non-medical health professions, in the second reading, which is inexactly called the Law on Nurses Education, but it is the education of all non-medical health professionals. I would like to start by stressing that the proposed bill aims, above all, to stabilise and improve qualifications for non-medical health professions. The related aim is to contribute to increasing the number of most sought-after non-medical health professionals in the Czech health care sector, which are general nurses and children's nurses. In preparing the bill, we fully respected the European regulation on the preparation of the general nurse for the pursuit of the profession, which was also confirmed by the agreement of the Department of Compatibility of the Office of the Government. One way to achieve these objectives is to allow for greater penetration of study programmes for certain professions. However, changes need to be adjusted in order to maintain the quality of education, which is one of the prerequisites for quality and safe provision of health care. In respect of these principles, it is proposed, inter alia, to extend the possibility of obtaining professional qualifications for the pursuit of the profession of general nurse and child nurse and to propose amendments allowing certain qualified workers to perform their profession without professional supervision. On the other hand, for example, training is required if a health professional or another professional has long interrupted the exercise of a medical profession. [[10.10 hours]] If I translate it a little human language, today's situation looks like everyone who's a senior, and it doesn't matter if they have it from high school, or if they have it from high school, or if they have it from industrial school, then they have to go to three-year supplementary education at a higher vocational school or a Bachelor's education in college, so that they can then be qualified general nurse from today's point of view. This amendment to the law in the case of those sisters introduces such a change that the person who goes to secondary health school, which means four years of secondary health education, is just one year's study at a higher vocational school to become a qualified general nurse. I say it has become, I think it has become, because the number of men in this profession is rising rapidly to my great joy. I consider it appropriate to mention that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports, we are also working on the creation of a new framework education programme aimed at making future graduates of secondary health schools better prepared for practice and studying more focused on teaching in client fields. On this point, I would like to stress and point out that today's high school education qualifies you for a profession called. A medical assistant, which is basically an early nurse. This means that this medical assistant cannot work alone, has to work under supervision and has very little competence compared to a qualified nurse. After all, we want to get away from it. The truth is that the difference between secondary health education and higher education or higher vocational health education is today mainly that in secondary health schools teaching so-called "schools" is not taught. clinical disciplines, and even so, that today the income bar at high school really isn't set high. And we want to get back to the fact that high schools are the standard of quality that they used to be. We are also preparing a follow-up amendment to the related legislation, in particular Decree No. 55/2011 Coll., on the activities of health professionals, where, in cooperation with professional companies, we propose an increase in competences for selected health professions, which should once again be linked to the fact that today, when we have university-qualified nurses, there is no reason for certain competences within health establishments to be transferred to some things that are now reserved exclusively for doctors. Finally, I would like to mention that the Committee on Health, which has discussed the proposal, adopted a resolution to which the Chamber of Deputies recommends agreeing to this Government proposal, as amended by the amendments adopted by it. I support these proposals, which are above all technical and specifying nature, for the Ministry of Health. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this legislation will contribute, on the one hand, to improving the access of health workers to education, and further facilitate the exercise of certain professions in practice, thereby enabling the labour market to maintain and, if necessary, to increase the number of workers in such an attractive profession. We assume that the proposed modifications will put more medical workers into practice, especially general nurses. In other words, we assume that we will increase the number of qualified nurses who can work separately, thus helping us to sort out to some extent the current deficiency, which we first experience in hospital health care facilities. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the proposal will be supported, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u3	I thank the Minister of Health Miloslav Ludvík and ask for the floor of the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mrs Jana Pastuchová, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in committee, to justify any amendments and then, of course, we will continue. Madam rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u4	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Dear Government, dear colleagues, at first reading on this law, there was a detailed substantive debate on this amendment. Its views have been expressed outside the Minister of Ministers by 12 fellow Members, ten of whom are directly from practice in the health sector, and two non-medical colleagues, but they also agree with the amendment, which I am very happy about. The House Press has been assigned to the Health Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Health Committee has discussed the amendment and adopted two resolutions that I will read to you. "The resolution of the Committee on Health of the 42nd meeting of 3 November 2016 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising competence for the performance of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, House printing 880. [[Act on non-medical health professions]] Following the opening remarks of Dr Radek Policar, Deputy Minister of Health for Legislation and Law, Member Mgr Jana Pastuchová and, after the debate, the Committee on Health recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with the Government's draft law amending Act No. 96/2004 Coll., on the conditions for obtaining and recognising eligibility for the exercise of non-medical health professions and for carrying out activities related to the provision of health care and amending certain related laws, House printing 880 including adopted amendments. Secondly, Ms Mgr empowers the Committee's rapporteur. Jana Pastuchová, to familiarise herself with the committee's opinion with the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies." Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u5	Thank you, Mrs Pastuchová. Now she's in the role of the rapporteur, and I'm going to ask her to speak again because she's the first one to sign up for the debate. Now, then, your word in the debate, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u6	Thank you for the floor. Once again, Mr President, dear government, colleagues. I have already performed on this amendment at first reading, but I have to say, which I also expected is the pressure not to approve part of this law, and specifically the proposal for a reduced study, is really great and I think it will still be. I have heard that various groups will address you to Members and explain to them that it is not good for a nurse not to have a university degree. By not having it, we are said to degrade this profession, make it worse to care for patients and so on. It is even taught that there has been a study that says that when a college-educated nurse cares for patients, there is less mortality in these departments. I asked where this research was going on. It wasn't in our republic. Another reason for being influenced will be that you will be presented that this sister will not be able to work abroad. Please and I repeat again, no higher education is cancelled. Anyone who wants to work abroad can still study at university. You will also hear what students are now attending high schools of health. It's not like it used to be, maybe I can agree with that. But then I ask how it is possible that most of these students will then graduate from college. It was said last time that a shortened study named so-called. 4+1 will cover secondary health school students who have been preparing for their future careers for four years. This does not apply to other students in other fields who, up to college or higher education, first learn about something to learn and actually learn after three years. I guess four years of medical school isn't for professional education if we're three years old after that. So when someone comes to you and tells you he represents the sisters, ask how many sisters he represents. If it's the 80 grand in our entire republic. [[10.20 hours]] Education and credit system. Another wrong move that someone has taken, and now everyone is looking forward to getting it right. I'm certainly in favour of compulsory lifelong learning, but let each organisation create education according to their own needs, and not to be a credit hunt, even if the lecture or seminar doesn't tell me anything. Cancellation of professional supervision. Who knows how this works in hospitals, even knowing that this professional supervision is often not respected. Let each hospital management or organization determine its adaptation process and decide when to let the new recruiter into shift separately. This amendment corrects many other things. Let me now comment on my amendments, which I will read in a detailed debate. One of the amendments responds to conceptual changes where, instead of putting an administrative offense, it turns into an offence. It is based on conceptual changes in the area of administrative punishment governed by Act No. 250/2016 Coll., on liability for offences and proceedings about them. The next amendment concerns a number of matters. This is a follow-up to the amendment of terminology resulting from Act No. 347/2011 Coll., on Medical Rescue Services, as amended by Act No. 385/2012 Coll. and Act No.372/2011 Coll., on health services and the conditions for their provision. I propose here that a medical paramedic with no professional supervision can go to the medical emergency services after only one year in the field of acute bed care or urgent income. As you all know, the rescue service has moved to another plane when RZP crews are leaving today, RV crews, and I think there are few places in the Czech Republic where we have a crew of RLP, which means that there is a doctor, a nurse and a driver sitting in that crew. The RZP crew is therefore composed of either two paramedics or rescue and rescue drivers. Many of the higher vocational schools and the Bachelor's studies come to us by rescue-students who can't tap the cannula, they can't decide so quickly, and I think that in the position of RZP this is really very important, and ensuring the venous line is one of the great prerequisites for often being given pre-hospital emergency care. So that's my amendment. I am releasing another amendment or suggesting that the midwife be removed from child care because I do not think that the midwife is responsible for the care of the child. Separate nursing care for children of all age groups, i.e. and the infant, the midwife is not eligible. A child nurse is qualified for this care. Another amendment concerns an aprobation test which has so far been carried out in the Czech language. Here it should change that the first - I repeat the first - written test could be in the language Czech, English, French, German or Russian. After successful completion of these written tests then follows a practical examination and it is already underway in Czech language. I propose another amendment to the new non-medical medical field, and this is the therapist of chronic wounds. Currently, training in the care of persons with an unhealing wound is carried out within certified courses or modules in the framework of specialisation education. In view of the significant socio-economic impact of prevention and, in particular, chronic therapy, that is to say, non-healing wounds, it is necessary to unite educational activities and, in particular, to use evidence-based knowledge, information that will subsequently affect the extent and quality of the care provided. And the last amendment, which I will read in a detailed debate, concerns the field of pharmacy. In the amendment, I propose that the pharmaceutical assistant, who has completed six semesters of accredited medical master's study programme, should work six months under professional supervision...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u7	I understand you, Madame, and I will ask the House for peace so that you may -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u8	... which will satisfy the condition of practice which corresponds to the length of practice within the accredited medical master's study programme of pharmacy, and after that time the pharmaceutical assistant will be able to fully engage in the operation of the pharmacy and can carry out all the activities that the pharmaceutical assistant performs during the normal operation of the pharmacy. I thank you for your attention and believe that we will approve this amendment as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u9	I thank Mrs Jana Pastuchová for her speech, and before I give the floor to Mr Rostislav Vyzula for his speech in the debate, I will state the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies, Mr Jiří Holeček between 10.05 and 14:00 in the wake of negotiations in the electoral region and also the Minister of Agriculture Marian Jurečka apologizes, starting at 13:00 from today's meeting. Mr Rostislav Vyzula now and Mr Leoš Heger will be prepared. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. First of all, let me comment on the next step in the legislative process in approving this very important, absolutely fundamental document, which concerns nurses and others. It's an extremely important novel. Please pay close attention to her. And please, let's try to think about what our nurses really want, what they really want and what they're going for. Only a small percentage of them require higher education, and this is, of course, also allowed in this amendment. No one is questioning college education, but the maximum majority of nurses want a proper, good, thorough, high school education, which needs to be further arranged in the next step. And this form now, which is here, so-called. 4+1 actually makes it possible to take a transitional step to keep our nurses from leaving the health department. And now please allow me to focus briefly only on my amendment, in which I basically follow up on yesterday's absolutely excellent seminar, which took place here in the House in room 205, House One, and concerned traditional Chinese medicine. We cannot close our eyes to the fact that traditional Chinese medicine does not exist here (?). On the contrary. We all know that there are many of these experts in our Republic, or quasi-professionals, who are nowhere to be classified, we do not know about their quality. And the people who attended yesterday as conspirators of this seminar, which were leading professors from universities such as Yale or Cambridge or Gustave Roussy, the Institute of Paris, so these above all unisono are cloning and stressing that quality is important. They themselves do not want this field to be profanized by that a number of so-called. experts will attend to this. [[10.30 hours]] I therefore took the liberty, in agreement with the Ministry, to present here an amendment which I will later apply to and which clearly states what it will be called. therapist of traditional Chinese medicine or specialist of traditional Chinese medicine. It makes it quite clear what extent of study should be involved, even though the details will, of course, be supplemented by an implementing decree. The proposed provisions are presented in order to clearly and transparently regulate education for traditional Chinese medicine. At present, there are a large number of entities operating in the Czech Republic that claim to operate traditional Chinese medicine, but it is not possible to clearly verify their education and the extent and quality of the care offered. In this context, it is also necessary to emphasise the huge interest of both the professional and the general public in traditional Chinese medicine. By granting the Nobelův Prize for Medicine and Physiology in 2015, he also promoted this interest to Chinese scientist Tchu Jou, who in the 1970s discovered the most effective cure for malaria called Artemisinin. In the course of the research, it came out of old Chinese herbalist texts. That is why I come up with a clear legal regulation that will enable health professionals to be educated in the field of traditional Chinese medicine, whether existing health professionals who can supplement or extend their education and thus also the possibility of their application, as well as new workers who are interested in this particular field of medicine. I think that's good enough to explain. I think it's clear that we want to be clear in this little so-called. alternative, for many misty medicine. However, it is a good thing that we should also have a legislative alignment with the country as it is to the west of us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And please Mr Heger, Mr Svoboda will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u12	Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the floor. I wish you a good morning and allow me to speak with my views and amendments in the field of the education of non-medical workers. In the first part, I will mention the law in general and then make a comment on my two amendments. The law we are discussing here today is similar to that of doctors and other professions in this type of medicine a few weeks ago, and it will probably trigger similar emotions and long discussions. I've already performed at first reading, and I'm not gonna stretch it out. I just have to mention the 4+1 model where I really have to give the rapporteur the truth that the model is compatible with European rules. However, it has a negative in that it introduces triplicity into the education of nurses. I already talked about that. And it's kind of an experiment in my day that would be acceptable to me if there was at least some indication in the law that further professional education as a specialization training of nurses for different higher disciplines will somehow take into account the three possibilities of sister education at least the length of practice before entering higher education. It's not there. I'm sorry. But I still think there are so many positive things in that law in other passages that, like the controversial law on medical education, will shift the education of non-medical professionals, so it is very likely that TOP 09 will agree to the law, and so will the education of nurses 4+1 if there are no dramatic changes. I would also like to say or stress on the general part what Minister Ludvík mentioned here. One of the aims of the law was to increase the permanence of the profession, and therefore I am a little concerned about the overview of amendments that are likely to be tabled regarding the various specializations that should be based on a sister's profession. And we have enough room in our system for these special activities to become subject to higher certification specialization training, as can be demonstrated on the proposal that will probably be submitted, namely the wound healing specialists. Who else would have a sister's basis than a wound healing specialist? But that will still be in the discussion on the Health Committee, and I only wanted to demonstrate it in some way under the principle of the law. Now, on to my two amendments, which I will put forward in the next detailed debate. This one concerns a profession called an expert in laboratory methods in the preparation of medicinal products. It's § 26 in the head 2 odds. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objectives of the programme. It's usually a matter of magistrates, if any. naturalists who take an accredited course and then become a profession, which, as I said, is called a laboratory worker. The government proposal suggests that workers who work in the area of blood services that are not yet there should be very good, and that there should be workers working with germ cells such as sperm, ova and embryos eventually within assisted reproduction. Since this activity, which concerns the germ organs, is a kind of subset of the activities relating to the law discussed about a month ago, the tissue and cell law, is directed by my amendment to a broader concept, and instead of the laboratory activities relating to the handling of sperm, ova and embryos, it should be written at the outset of this letter that everything takes place within the framework of activities relating to tissue and cell handling, thereby specifying the logic of this matter. And another, more detailed information will be on the Health Committee. [[10.40 hours]] The second amendment concerns the whole of the law, because it is a more general principle that defines the lifelong education of non-medical workers. Lifelong education is known in the field of the Law on the Education of Physicians, in the field of nurses there has been a kind of overload and a great criticism of the administration associated with the lifelong education and the government draft reduces the administration very correctly and significantly effectively. I took the liberty of bringing an amendment, which further reduces one part of the education, and these are the workers who are in Title 2, who define the professions that are under the section of workers who always have to work under supervision, or are not sisters, they are not midwifes, they are not higher lab workers, they are professions such as ambulance workers, nurses, drivers of health transport services, but also other professionals who come from other fields, mathematicians, engineers, naturalists, but have not studied the field of health, they have studied the field in general and are useful. Sometimes they work and have to work under surveillance. These disciplines can make an accreditation course that will make them health professionals and can then be included in higher medical disciplines where they no longer have to work under supervision. The amendment, in a simple way - and thus ending - says that all workers who do not have to work under the law under supervision will have to have lifelong learning, while those lower professions, such as hospital caregivers according to the old nomenclature, do not have to have this education. This does not mean, of course, that they cannot be educated, but it will be organised according to the normal rules of the Labour Code, which the employer cares for, it will not be something special that belongs to the health sector, when lifelong education and its organisation depends on a worker who has to do some sort of independent and in a way creative work. That's all, and then I'll sign up for the specific numbers of the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I beg Mr Svoboda and Mrs Chalánková will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Have a good day, everyone. I have also spoken to this press, but I feel the need to repeat or say some of the things that I consider essential at second reading. It is a law that is really narrowed down to the law on nurses, but it is a law on all non-medical health workers and has similar or similar problems in all those areas as the area of nurses, e.g. the area of pharmacological assistants is also an area which is actually dealt with in the same way and not dealt with, as is the case with nurses. The problem of nurses actually arises somewhere else. In fact, we currently have three possible ways to educate ourselves and get into the field of work, which can be seen as a nurse's work in a simplified sense. And I think this is where the buried dog starts. I think that this law is dealing to some extent with the current situation and I think it is necessary to accept the law in this form, and I am very convinced that we will support it as the Civil Democratic Party, but it has to be said that the whole problem is actually based on a wrong setting. In life, it must simply be that every education must have a work application before it, it must be clearly defined what extent of activity the person will be doing and what, in fact, the aim of his education is. We currently have the possibility of training non-medical health professionals in the area of those nurses, I say in a simplified, three-way way. At the end of the climb there will be workers who have graduated from system 4 + 1, there will be bachelors and there will be magisters. I think that this is precisely the mistake for which the huge problem of discussing that it eliminates university education begins today, or, on the contrary, reduces the level of sister care. I am convinced that the development of medicine goes towards narrowing the scope of medical activity and that this activity must be transferred to a non-medical doctor at different levels of education and at some stage to a non-medical doctor educated in higher education. That's a thing that actually works in the world and still doesn't work with us. Of course, I have a problem with having sisters with different quality of education in my ward, and actually their activities are the same. I know a number of girls who went from grad school to bachelor's degree to master's degree - now to hit those educational ranks - and who will say that education was actually the same, that neither its scope nor its professionality changed. Whether the anatomy is six hours or twelve hours, but no connection to the activity. They're actually just doing it because they want to move on with the rankings. I don't want to say they want to have something in front of their name, behind their name, even though it can appear there. And then at the end of the day, there's really no job for them other than the nurse's work load by the bed, because the bachelors are gonna be station nurses, the magists are gonna be top nurses, or the main ones, we're gonna move on - so what? That number is defined, their number is standard, and all the others will have nothing to do. That is why I think it is necessary to do this inter-step in order to resolve the current situation. It's not gonna be that easy, because it's gonna take a while to change the quality of applicants for medical schools. Each of us who has the opportunity to teach or appear in health schools knows that the applicant's level has deteriorated significantly. There was a long time ago when first-graders, second-graders, or decorated students entered medical schools. Today they're applicants who can't get into hairdresser or anything else. And if you look at their grades in primary school, unfortunately, they're four-year-olds, and that's not a good thing for this profession. And that's before it breaks, before the general understanding, not the girls or the boys, but their parents change before they understand that the profession has some meaning again, it's going to take some time, and it's definitely running on a track that moves just to ten years. The way it works in the world is that you have an etalon of educated sisters, or college-educated sisters, at the level that they actually replace doctors in many of his activities. And that impact, of course, is very important for the whole health sector. [[10.50 hours]] I served in Italy in the 200-bed operating department, and there was a doctor on duty. The whole program was covered by nurses and college-educated non-doctors. That means the doctor was called when the patient had to be reviewed. I'm not going to discuss it, it's a purely medical issue, but it meant that one doctor on the 200 beds really was enough, and when he needed to operate, he called in a field service from home. And for those sisters, it meant that they had a very specialized good job and, of course, they were different from those nuurs who did regular sister work. It was in Italy, so there was still a variant of church care at the sister level very, very strong. [[There's a lot of noise in the hall!]] And we just have to come to that because it is not financially possible to do so, nor is it possible to provide staff. The moment we start having employment problems with the number of services, the time spent on overtime, when we have a problem with the fact that the hospital work will not be as attractive and those doctors will be leaving, we need to build the solution as it will be. And that's my very strong appeal. Now, we're dealing with something, and we're going to try to help, but it's extremely necessary that all these Department files work on it. And it's not just an assignment for the medical part. That's really why we have to cut the slice of bread that's in that hospital again in a different way. They cut it in a different way. And I say again, if the scope of activities and powers are not changed in another way, until then, the problem will still be on the table simply because someone will be too educated for the activity, someone as little educated and nothing there will be stimulating. It's not even stimulating to learn. Because you learn and do what? You're doing the same thing you did before. So the option, the sextet of the same schools, is really, in my opinion, the way to hell, which is going to deepen this problem again, but at this point, there is a possibility of a transition option, but we have to take it that way. We can't say yes, now we've worked it out, and we've got enough nurses. No, the problem will deepen again if the fundamental contradiction is not removed that the type of education and quality of education does not have a clear perspective on the scope of the activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Before I give the floor to Mrs Chalánková, with priority rights, the Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u16	Thank you, Mr President. By your means to Mr Svoboda. Definitely the Ministry of Health, which I did not mention in my introductory words, is committed and will work to correct a competence decree that shifts the competence of nurses between the individual degrees or those levels of education. This means that we will really want to adjust and shift competences precisely to make it work in this way. Otherwise, I can actually respond to Mr President by saying that every brook that brings a single sister to beds is good at the moment, but it will certainly not be a long-term program. Now it really aims to address the issue, and later it will really be our goal to strengthen teaching in secondary health schools so that we can avoid this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u17	Now Mrs Chalánková has the floor, which is the last to be entered into the general debate so far.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to justify the amendment under number 5833, to which I will then sign up in a detailed debate. It concerns § 43 and concerns the acquisition of professional competence and is referred to in paragraph 2. Professional qualifications for the profession of another professional are acquired by e) higher education in the field of humanities or health care, i.e. graduating from higher education in the field of humanities or health care, completing a comprehensive training programme accredited in education, aimed at obtaining theoretical and self-experience training and therapeutic skills, in accordance with the field of which he focuses - dramatherapy, art therapy, music therapy, dance-motion therapy - to the extent of at least 400 training hours, or artistic and therapeutic university studies and at least 120 hours of professional supervision of his own therapeutic practice of art therapist. You have this whole design in your system, so I won't read it in detail. However, I would like to justify that the re-inclusion of artetherapy in Act No. 96/2004 Coll. appears to be a partial measure which does not address the whole issue of artistic creative therapy, which is comprehensively addressed in the draft amendment of Act No. 108/2006 Sb. and went through an interdepartmental reminder procedure. Therefore, a proposal for a similar solution is submitted in the framework of the amendment of Act No. 95/2004 Coll. with the possibility of extending qualifying conditions for health care. Here you also have the whole reason available, there is talk about complex requirements for the exercise of this profession, accreditation, therapeutic skills, self-experience, there is a question of supervision and supplementing the paragraph on universities. In a detailed debate, I will then formally sign up for this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u19	Thank you and the rapporteur in the general debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u20	Thank you for the floor. I would also react quickly to Mr Svoboda's contribution to the fact that I totally agree with him that this is actually a longer course, because it is necessary to set up a new framework education programme in secondary health schools, a completely different one, that is, four years of this actually new setting. I would also like to thank the Ministry of Education for participating in this amendment and working with us, because they really did compare education at high schools, higher schools and universities, and if we weren't sure that the students were really spending time there for nothing, because they were listening to the exact same thing, we wouldn't be able to do the same thing, and I don't think even the Ministry would be able to present this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u21	I also thank you and ask if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. If not, I am ending the general debate. I will ask whether there is an interest in the final words after the general debate. It's not like that. I am opening up a detailed debate, and the rapporteur is the first to sign up, and then Mr Kasal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u22	Thank you. I would like to sign up for my amendments under 5157, 5163, 5164, 5540, 5640 and 5856. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u23	Thank you. Mr Kasal, please prepare Mr Vyzula.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to apply to three amendments with a short explanation. The first is House Document No 5857, which concerns and complements the new field of ABA therapy. It is proposed to complement three new medical professions - behavioral analyst, assistant behavioral analyst and behavioral technician. The aim is thanks to these new health professions to enable the use of applied behavioral analysis in the Czech Republic, so-called. ABA, according to standards, principles and rules established by Behavioral analytic certification board. It is a method that is also approved by Government resolution 111, which is currently helping to address people with an autistic spectrum. The guarantee of implementation and development of internationally certified ABA in the Czech Republic would be the Czech Professional Society of Applied Behavioral Analysis in cooperation with the Working Group on Applied Behavioral Analysis at the Czech Medical Society Jan Evangelista Purkyn. [[11.00 hours]] I would also apply to the House of Document 5853, which deals with the section on pharmaceuticals. The proposed provision is intended to address the legal status of pharmacists who have acquired professional qualifications in the Slovak Republic in the period between the break-up of the federal state and the accession of the Czech Republic to the EU. Education acquired during this period is incompatible from the point of view of EU law, as the reference day for pharmacy is up to 1. 5. 2004. There are a large number of Czech citizens working on the territory of the Czech Republic who have received education in Slovakia in the field of pharmacy and the Czech Republic cannot give these people a decision on the recognition of professional qualifications. The Slovak Republic cannot also issue them a certificate of compatibility of education because they have never worked on the territory of the Slovak Republic. The proposed provision is therefore intended to create legal certainty for about 700 pharmacists who work with qualification education and in good faith in pharmacies, but in strict interpretation of the law de facto work illegally in the Czech Republic. And the last document I'm reporting to is under number 5876, based on what was approved by the Health Committee. The proposal is as follows. Point 7 of the amendment contained in the resolution of the Committee on Health of 3. 11. 2016 to replace the text: "7 to point 52. Point 52 is 52. Article 19 (2) is deleted.' In its meeting, the Health Committee approved the amendment, which was the release of § 19 para. 2 as amended by the Government Bill, Parliament's Press 880. From a factual point of view, this was the launch of a proposal which would also obtain professional qualifications for the profession of pharmaceutical assistant by completing at least six semesters of accredited medical master's degree programme of pharmacy. In the event of approval of paragraph 7, as set out in the resolution of the Health Committee of 3. 11. 2016 - 7. To point 52, point 52 is deleted - remains in Act No. 96/2004 Coll. Section 19 (2) (a) 2 in the current version of Act No. 96/2004 Coll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u25	Mr Vyzula, please, and Mr Heger will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to my amendment under number 5560, which concerns clarifying the status of a therapist and a specialist in traditional Chinese medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u27	Thank you. Mr Heger, please, and Mr Kaňkovský will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u28	Thank you for the floor. I am applying to Amendment 5502 and the other is 5843. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u29	Mr Kaňkovský and Mrs Chalánková after him.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u30	Mr President, honourable Members of the Government, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, allow me to apply to six amendments to the present House of Press 880, amendment to Act No.96/2004 Coll., on the education of non-medical workers. These are the numbers of the House documents: 5867, 5869, 5870, 5871, 5872 and 5873. I hope I didn't scare you. I would like to draw attention to the fact that these amendments are six options for solving the education of a professional group of pharmaceutical assistants. I present this alternative solution because there has not yet been a complete agreement between the representatives of the professional public and the Ministry of Health and I assume that we will be dealing with the final solution at the meeting of the guarantee committee. Personally, I prefer the option under the number of House document 5873, which anchors the new education of pharmaceutical assistants in the same regime as for nurses, i.e. in the so-called regime four plus one, i.e. high school education with graduation followed by one year of education at a higher vocational school. Furthermore, this amendment gives the opportunity to recognise the professional qualifications of a pharmaceutical faculty student who has completed three years of Master's degree but who has to follow six months of professional supervision. Here it must be realized that practical training is the domain of higher education at the pharmaceutical faculty. Therefore, the requirement for a six-month supervised work is the absolute minimum that a candidate should undergo under professional supervision to learn those practical skills. The proposal also deals with a transitional period for the education of pharmaceutical assistants who study in the law's current diction and recognition of professional competence to those pharmaceutical assistants or laboratory technicians who have studied according to applicable or previously valid legislation. In any case, however, we should align the final position with the real requirements of practice, which I firmly believe will then happen. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u31	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Mr Heger's point of fact? If so, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u32	Thank you. I'm really just gonna ask technically, and I'm sorry about that. So I checked the amendments this morning, and these numbers were not in the system. Is there any explanation for that?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u33	I will give room for Mr Kaňkovský's factual comment.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u34	I'm very sorry to my colleague Leoš Heger. I originally entered under other numbers of House documents, but there was a mistake in the header, which is why I subsequently entered them. They're the same thing in substance, but they're loaded the way I read them now at second reading. So it's under the numbers I've been reading in plenary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u35	So that explains it, and please, Mrs Chalánková. Mr. Benda will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u36	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to my amendment, which you have in the system under number 5833. I have already spoken about it in the general debate. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u37	Mr. Benda.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u38	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to sign up for my amendment, which I will read orally: in Article 1, paragraph 91 is deleted. It's about the famous artetherapy, but because I gave some justification for it that was attacked, and now it's running - who's on the health committee - that there's some discussion going on between two hostile groups, who I'm being misbehaved and who I've offended and who I haven't offended, so just in case, I'm suggesting that point. I think that is correct, but I do not sign up for a proposal that is in the system so that this proposal, like this justification has not officially been put on the table, is not presented as a justification. I think there's been enough talk of art therapy, and everyone who's on the Health Committee knows what the dispute is. But I am merely speaking this way before another oral, not as the number of the House document.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-02-24-ps2013-055-04-004-018.u39	So, Mr Benda was the last speaker in a detailed debate. I'll ask if anybody else is checking in. If not, I will conclude a detailed debate and ask for final words. Not interested. And since I was taking over the mid-point meeting management, I will ask the rapporteur if there was a proposal that could be voted on. It's not like that, it's great. In that case, I'm ending the second reading of this press. [[11.10 hours]] We'll continue with point 17, which is
