ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u1	8. Government bill amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to State Employment Policy, as amended, and other related laws /house print 926/ - second reading I ask the Minister to state this bill under the authority of the Government. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Vilímec and Mr Antonín, to prepare themselves with their news speeches.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u2	Hello. Mr President, Members, this proposal contains amendments to four basic social insurance laws and can actually be described as so-called technical. I have already discussed this in detail at first reading. [[There's a lot of noise in the room!]] The proposal concerns, in particular, the way in which social insurance is carried out without impact on any premium rates or entitlement to benefits. At the same time, we present and take into account various experiences with the implementation of social insurance from practice. In particular, we want to simplify the situation for self-employed people. At the same time, there are very important amendments. One concerns the removal of the allowance for midwifes so that they cannot confirm the length of the maternity allowance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u3	Colleagues, colleagues, please remain calm.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u4	Mr Běhounek's amendment was also introduced here, which concerns, in particular, the introduction of so-called electronic incapacity and the adaptation of the single information system of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. We agree with this, we also participated in the preparation. Furthermore, there is a very important amendment by Mr Zavadil, which concerns an increase in the percentage rates for determining the amount of sickness if the temporary incapacity to work lasts for more than 30 days. It is an amendment that has actually approved a government coalition, and it is a return for the long-term sick to the time before the changes in past right-wing governments. I thank you and believe that we will discuss this proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u5	Thank you. I'll read Mr. Havlíček's apology. He apologizes from 15 o'clock for work reasons. Mr Lank between 16 and 21 on account of the hearing. We ordered this proposal at first reading to the Committee on Social Policy as a guarantee, and it was also directed to the Committee on Health. The resolution of both committees was delivered as press 926/1 and 2. First, I ask the rapporteur of the Guarantee Committee, Mr Vilímec, to inform us of the discussion of the proposal in the committee and, if necessary, to justify the amendments.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you about the resolution of the Social Policy Committee on the Parliamentary Press 926, i.e. the Government's bill amending Act No. 589/1992 Coll., on social security premiums and contributions to state employment policy. The Committee recommended: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to agree with this rather, as the Minister also pointed out, the technical amendment to the law, which therefore leads to a simplification of the payment of insurance contributions for self-employed persons, simplifies the arrangements for the refund of overpayments on insurance premiums or regulates the conditions for the benefit of sickness insurance and makes further, mostly technical changes. However, the Social Committee or the Social Policy Committee recommends repealing points 10, 14, 16, 20, 28 and 29 in Part Four of Article 7. These are points related to the amendment to the sickness insurance law introducing an obligation and, at the same time, authorisation of the midwife to issue certificates of expected birth day or other statutory requirements in connection with the application for maternity assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u7	Thank you and please the rapporteur of the Committee on Health, Mr Antonín, to inform us also of the course of the hearing.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u8	We have discussed that law only at one point, because the health committee has only dealt with the point that meets, and that is the point about giving cash assistance to motherhood, where we believe that midwifes should not have the right to exhibit this document because it is bound to previous medical examinations and diagnosis, the length of pregnancy that the midwife is unable to perform without ultrasound examinations and detailed pregnancy examinations.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u9	Thank you and I am opening a general debate. I have two applications so far. Please, Mrs Hnyková and Mr Běhounek.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u10	Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present to you the amendment to the Government Bill No. 589/1992 Coll., on Social Security Insurance and Contribution to the State Employment Policy. With this amendment, I want to make it easier to pay for stays in social services facilities for persons with limited autonomy for whom a guardian addresses the issue of finance. The House's press 926 in the third part, where the amendment of Act No. 582/1991 Coll., on the organisation and implementation of social security, amends the amendment clause 46 and 47 of Section 116c of the Act in such a way that it is subject to a terminology that the designation of social services establishments providing social services corresponds to the Act on social services. Furthermore, it specifies how the pension scheme provided for by this provision is not applicable (?) in cases where the client of such a facility is limited in his/her right and has an appointed guardian. Last but not least, it provides for an obligation for such facilities to refund pension payments to the retired payer in specified cases. I put forward a amending proposal at the meeting of the Committee on Social Policy, where it was rejected, but it followed negotiations at the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs with the participation of the Ministry of Justice and the Association of Providers, where they agreed on an amendment proposing to amend Amendment Point 47 and thus apply a specific method of pension payment to social services establishments as well as to pensioners who are limited in their legal capacity if their guardian agrees to this method of payment. It is based on the fact that social services facilities with guardians will treat the way such funds are dealt with by contract, which is what the existing wording of the Social Services Act allows and is in practice carried out. In practice, this will facilitate the situation of both social services facilities and guardians, in particular those of the public, who perform this function in relation to a greater number of clients limited in their legal capacity. For years, the principle applies in practice when social services residence facilities receive a mass voucher for most of their clients and subsequently perform, on the basis of an agreement with the client or his guardian, which is part of the social service contract, the settlement of the remuneration for the stay under the agreement and the rest of the pension are for the benefit of the client. It is used for supplements of medicines, buying clothes or other purchases for clients. All this under the control of the guardian and the custody court and, of course, by communicating with the client. This is now in the amendment, which, as I have already said, has been prepared in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, legally regulated. We will make life easier for our handicapped fellow citizens and workers in social services facilities and we will not burden them with unnecessary bureaucracy. It only costs time and money. I thank you for the attention and support of my amendment and, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for it and for the next one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u11	Thank you, Mr Zavadil, please, and Mr Běhounek will prepare himself.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u12	Mr President, Madam Secretary, fellow Members, it has already been quoted here. The reasons are in the complex material, but I will take the lift from this very briefly. This amendment is an amendment to Act No. 187/2006 Coll., on sickness insurance, as amended, where the possibility of filing forms for a decision on temporary incapacity for work, confirmation of the regulation of quarantine and forms relating thereto in electronic form should basically be simplified. The aim of the proposed electronisation of incapacity, in quotation marks, is to introduce a completely new and functional form of forms used in the assessment of temporary incapacity for work, in the abbreviation DPN, or to confirm the quarantine as a fully electronic route of communication between stakeholders and, on the one hand, the introduction of electronic failure to use and optimize communication while maintaining the possibility of continuing to issue the relevant forms in paper form, i.e. paper sacks. The basic proposals will bring in particular simplification of procedures and subsequent movement of documents, because we currently have five parts of incapacity for work, and there are huge problems with that, because most of them, at least one, will be lost during that journey. Reduction of the number of parts of the temporary incapacity form from five to three, removal of many unnecessary duties of doctors, removal of unnecessary duties of employers, maintenance of data on all temporary incapacity for work of insured persons whose sickness insurance is carried out by the same authority in one register, allowing the use of data from the register of temporary incapacity for work and maintenance of the choice of the attending doctor in the form of DPN forms. Finally, from this elevator, it is appropriate to say that the aim is to accelerate the process and speed up the payment of sick leave, reduce the administrative burden on employers, treating doctors and the social affairs department, and provide electronic communications to employers, to transmit information on the workforce's incapacity. [[15.20 hours]] In the introduction of an electronic disability with all its advantages, the possibility of, alternatively, exposing an incompetent person in paper form will still be maintained. It will depend solely on the choice of individual doctors, which form and for which case they choose to be exposed to occupational incapacity, I assume in cooperation with the employer. It is clear that the success of an electronic failure will be decided to a large extent by simplicity, user-friendliness and the ability of subsequent technical solutions. The purpose of the proposal is to create a legal framework in time that will enable these solutions to be created. In a detailed debate, I will then apply to the figure under which it is recorded in the Houses of Documents.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u13	Mr Zavadil, please, and President Stanjura will be ready.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, my amendment is justified, among other things, because in 2010, at a time when, in connection with the implementation of austerity measures in the state budget, there has been a flat-rate reduction in these benefits, or sickness insurance benefits, and once the economic crisis has subsided, it can be assumed and there is room for the sickness insurance system to better fulfil its purpose and the amount of benefits to be set so that the decline in income for prolonged temporary work incapacity or quarantine is not so significant. It is therefore proposed to increase the percentage rates of sickness to a level which was before 2010. The amount of sickness should be differentiated, i.e. within 30 days it should be the same as it is, above 30 days, from the 31st day, the rate should be increased to 66 per cent and from the 61st calendar day of temporary incapacity would be 72 per cent of the reduced daily assessment base. I thank you and hope that you will support this proposal. I will then join him in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u15	Mr. Stanjura, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u16	Thank you for the floor. I want to comment on what two of my previous speakers have said. With Mr Zavadil's proposal, I would like to say that this is a proposal that can be proposed at second reading and can be voted on because it is, I would say, a basically simple debate. Of course, I personally have no problem with the proposal, because one has two negative things at the same time for long-term sickness - first, the long-term illness itself, and second, the financial evaluation that one receives during the period of long-term sickness. At the same time, however, we should talk about the possibilities to make a commercial contribution to sickness, because the proposal actually helps those who basically have medium or lower incomes because it is limited from above, the amount of sickness. So for employees, but also businessmen with higher middle incomes, the decline is extremely high, even after the possible approval of this amendment. And maybe we could generally choose the principle of payment for sickness as voluntary, let everyone consider it and, if there are products on the market, there is nothing wrong with volunteering. That's what I think if it's a particular person's choice, it's something we could support because that's his responsibility. Just last week, I read an analysis of how disease-free petty businessmen and businessmen don't draw. Why do you think? Those are the ones who go to work all the time and who just can't afford to lose their income. And it's not just for financial reasons. They can't actually afford to leave the business because nobody does the job for them, and we don't really think about it. At most what this government has for them, so tightening conditions, increasing bureaucracy, all stealing and paying more. This is the only help this government offers to small businessmen and businessmen. A much more critical comment deserves the proposal of the Member, the Governor and the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the VZP. We are together in a working group that is supposed to deal with the electronisation of public administration, and I think that this proposal is precisely an example of what we are criticizing in that group and how we should not proceed. Look at the amendment. It is relatively robust, it is not linked to anything else, there was no standard tender, we are introducing here yeti - a unified information system of the MPSV. Madam Secretary, is there something like this today? I don't think it is. The Minister was unable to compete with a single system in 3.5 years, even though over the years she had x press conferences, as everything is wrong, as she competes, competes. Reality is completely opposite! All he wants to do is withdraw contracts from the social administration to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and this proposal opens the door. Who is responsible for this agenda? Ministry of Labour or Czech Social Security Administration? The answer is clear. Czech Social Security Administration! Yet here you are reading the emergence of some unified information system. By the second reading amendment, we are reading the emergence of a unified information system in the resort. It's already suspicious, it's weird. Look at the amendment. It's rather robust. And now I could quote-- and I'll do it so you know-- from a vague diction. There, this text appears several times in several paragraphs. For example: "Data needed to assess the state of health and the activities referred to in paragraphs 1 to 9 shall be kept in the health assessment information system for the purposes of social agendas'. Assessment of health status for social agendas. It's a strange thing to say. "This information system is part of a unified information system of work and social affairs." Not even the Ministry anymore. So I have a specific question for either the Minister or my colleague, Mr Běhounek. What does the unified information system of work and social affairs look like today? Which systems and which subsystems are part of this single system? When was the supplier's competition? Who's the supplier of these systems? What are the annual operating costs of the Single Labour and Social Affairs Information System? Right after that: "The insured register is an information system of public administration managed by the Ministry and is part of a unified information system of work and social affairs." Even the Ministry will graciously allow employees of the Czech Social Security Administration and district social security administrations to use a register of insured persons to carry out their tasks. What's the Ministry's registry for? Second specific question to the Minister. I would like to ask what the Government Council's position on the public administration information systems on this amendment is. Did the Council of the Government discuss this as an advisory body the strongest in this area of digitalisation and electronisation? If so, I would like to see a resolution or a decision. And now the paragraph that says, no matter how we do it, basically we can always say that it works even if it doesn't work. To support my claim, I will read the repeated diction of one paragraph: "The competent health insurance authority shall communicate to the treating physician the consent in electronic form, according to the third sentence, through the insurance information system, if the application for this consent has been made in electronic form..." No problem until then. You ask electronically, you get an answer electronically. But the following sentence goes on: "and if the technical solution of the given insurance information system allows it to do so." In other words, I ask electronically, solve it for me, I answer: I follow the law, according to § 56 last sentence paragraph. The technical solution of the information system shall not allow this information to be communicated. This is repeated several times. [[15.30 hours]] And I'm also a fan of electronic incapacity, but it's not easy to enforce because here you need to reconcile the interests of two professional groups and those interests are legitimate. On the one hand, there are employers, and on the other hand, there are practical doctors. Third question to the Minister and Mr Běhounek: does this amendment have the support of the Association of Practical Physicians? If so, I'd like to know which body decided the association and when. Because if we do this unilaterally, if we don't find a consensus between employers and especially the Association of Practical Physicians, respectively. doctors in general, so it's just useless. And Mr Běhounek took as a terrible advantage that it would be electronically or on paper and that it would depend on the doctor. I would like to hear a qualified estimate of how much you think, Mr President, how many percent of doctors will use that electronic route. I don't mind the principle, the choice. But in order for it to be attractive, there must be some bonus, whether for the employers or for the doctors, I understand that. And now I don't mean a financial bonus, now I mean a simpler administration, something faster. I don't see any of this. Fourth question to the Minister: Why didn't you discuss it in the government bill? Electronization, digitalization, information systems. Mr Běhounek says that he will sign up for that figure in a detailed debate. I would ask him not to do this, so that the amendment will leave us for further discussion, so that he does not put us to the vote, because the proposal is really unprepared. I may be wrong, but I will wait for the answer to those questions, what is the attitude of the Government Council, what is the attitude of the Association of Practice Doctors, why it was not in the government's proposal, why it was not the standard commentary procedure, who would actually appreciate the proposal. And what does that mean if the technical solution to the single labour and social information system makes this possible? I don't understand. Then every blackout, every bug in the software, you can, with a reference to this paragraph, bagulate and say, well, the law thinks about it, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can send paper. But we've introduced electronization and digitalization. Mr. Mr. Běhounka, try not to sign up for this and let's leave it as a debate, because it's a matter that deserves a solution, but not like this. Like this, without a proper discussion, an unprepared proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Thank you, too, Mr President. We're in a general debate, I'm registering two applications. First of all, Mr Běhounek has a factual point and after that, the Minister with priority rights. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u18	I assume that a colleague will be answered many questions. I'm sorry if we try to move something, he's criticizing it. I am convinced that the wordings are solvable, that it is in this way in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and I was informed that dealing with doctors was at the moment when the electronic recipe solution was introduced. I am convinced that this will be easier and more desirable for employers as well. Today, of course, we constantly track the individual parts, as I have commented, there are five of them. I will apply to this amendment and it is for further negotiations and negotiations in the Committee on Guarantees if this is still being discussed with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u19	Thank you. Now with priority rights, Madam Secretary. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u20	Thank you for the floor. Mr Vice-President, Members, well, I would think that if someone criticized a text, some amendment that would at least find out the reality and then criticize it. As for the fact that we promised to compete and didn't compete, I don't know, that's probably some real mistake, because we competed ten of those big contracts and nothing, nothing we promised, or everything we promised, we did. Those electronic incompetents, as they are in this amendment, have no relation to any of the contracts at the Ministry of Labour or the Czech Social Security Administration. The amendment, yes, was discussed by the Council of the Government on Information Technology, just as it was discussed by the Council on Economic and Social Agreements, and this amendment has clear support for employers and trade unions. And so does the doctors. I don't know if it was specifically discussed with this association, which was mentioned here or with another, but it was discussed with them, of course, and it will be presented at the Congress in April. And the last thing I'm picking up, the unified information system, it's already anchored in the Labour Office Act today. Oh, and now I have information that the organ with which it was discussed is the Czech Medical Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u21	Thank you, too. I'm registering you, Mr President, with priority rights, please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u22	Such a uniform information system of work and social affairs is anchored in the Labour Office Act. I have no reason not to trust the Minister. Then why do you want it in the Ministry? Do we understand that the employment office is a different entity from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs? I asked you why you wanted to transfer it to the Ministry. No answer. I asked what the systems of the unified information system were. The answer is - it is anchored in the law. So I'll translate it: Madam Secretary doesn't know. I understand that he doesn't know that today. Next time, Madam Secretary, if you would answer me. I know, I really understand that the minister can't know everything. You didn't answer my key question, why it wasn't in the government bill, why you're dealing with it with the amendment - digitization, the introduction of new information systems. This really isn't easy. And if we want it to be a success, and I want it to be a success, then it has to be well prepared, or you're gonna get it. And it's not well prepared. We discussed it with some doctors. I asked specifically, who exhibits the highest percentage of incompetence? Practical doctors. Because it's close to me, I'm debating this with the Association of Practice Doctors, with the various practitioners, the principle, because I know it would help employers. And their response is that employers and unions have not yet found common ground with them. We can order this unilaterally, but if we say at the same time - and we dull the edge of the resistance - that it won't be mandatory, so I also asked the secretary how much you think it will use doctors, the practical ones, if it isn't mandatory and it can't be as if it meets their legitimate requirements so that it works. No answer. No answer. It's the general motto "we want the electronization," we all sign it. And I'm gonna save the information systems you competed for another House point. I agree it doesn't belong here, it was just a comment. If you consider JŘBÚ to be a competition, you may be right, but giving someone a hand extension of the system and calling it overcompete, it's a rather bold statement. But I don't want to burden this point, it doesn't really belong to that, but if you want, tomorrow I can propose a point that will be called "information systems on MPSV" and we can discuss it quite in detail within any other point. I'm pretty ready for this, I've got these public-source files, and I'm gonna be able to ask questions, and I'm gonna be expecting answers. But try answering the basic questions I've asked. If it's so important, why didn't you, Madam Secretary, put it in the government bill? Why didn't the standard reminder procedure take place? Why did you bypass the Practicing Doctors' Association, which is mostly involved? I don't understand. If I want this project to be successful, I need to find a match for those who are supposed to use it. And, of course, it's better for the employees and the employers if they get it electronically. However, there is a formulation to protect classified information or private information - and what is more private than health information? - it's pretty hot, too. And that's the key to the success of all the electronics in health care, so that we clients, we patients, are sure that the information will only be shared by the person who has it, and that it will not reach anyone else. This is the most important task especially in health care. I don't know any more intimate information than that. And look at the justification for the amendment that is written in private and private to protect these data. It's written again that - I would sign it - we'll take care of it. I understand that, but how are we going to take care of that? Who's gonna build this system? Do we have any specification of the architecture of the unified system of work? [[unintelligible]] Is there any such thing as architecture of the unified system or not? I'm afraid not. But be careful, we've already got it in the Labor Office Act. And that's not enough, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u23	Thank you. Mr Antonín Pavel's point of order now. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u24	Hello. Something out of life. The certificate of incapacity for work is the most frequently exhibited by practitioners or outpatient specialists. And from 1. 1. 2018 each of them will have to have an electronic signature and each of them will have to exhibit an electronic recipe. Of course, everyone's been resisting it for a long time, that's the truth. But the situation will come uncompromisingly. And by the time it happens, to apply it so that they can expose their incapacity for work electronically, it's just a matter of software and the connection of the two channels. I can't tell if they're connected at any given moment and how they work. But in any case, in that paper form, all the sensitive data - I write the number of the diagnosis and I write x papers for each of these individual forms during each check-up, every change in walks, every change in hospitalization, every change in examination by another doctor. Anything, if it's possible to go through one software program, then the doctor will make it much easier. It's always hard to start, but if we don't start, it's never gonna work.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u25	Thank you. Mr Stanjura's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u26	Just a little while longer. It's April 11th. It's not that simple, it's just software to make it work from January 1st to eight months. It won't work, and it can't work. It's just not a real term. That's all. And to have the choice as such - just as those who want to use it will not be able to use it from 1 January. I'd like to see the schedule, the architecture, as it will be. It's not that simple, believe me. And I'm a former programmer. It's "it's just going to be programmed," but it's not that simple. Trust me on that. So that's where we're going... The only thing I wanted was for this project to have the support of the Association of Practicing Physicians or Outpatient Doctors. But nobody talked to them about it, or they don't have the support today. They may have been spoken to, but they didn't have an acceptable condition. Plus, the term really isn't real. And if you want another information system to explode here in January, and that's why there's an increase in distrust when the state does something in the electronic digitization that it's never gonna work, go ahead. Let's just choose vague terms, or vague terms, meaninglessly short terms. There's nothing worse we can do than that good idea... And I said I support the system of electronic disability, but it must be well prepared. And that's it. So don't think of it as a criticism, but rather a warning of the risks of the particular solution that we have on our desk today.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u27	Thank you. Two more factual points. First, Mr Opálka. Mr. Běhounek will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u28	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Colleagues, fellow Members, I must say that we, as well as electronic recipes, have postponed electronic incapacity in the Chamber of Deputies in force. If I'm not mistaken, the Czech Social Security Administration should have had electronic incompetents ready long ago. I am not able to say now because I am not communicating with the Czech administration as far as before the Chamber of Deputies approved the exemption and postponed the raid on electronic incompetents, it is. But I want to hope that it basically builds on the previous preparation and that it shouldn't be that difficult. But that it was always difficult in that system, it was on the doctor's side. Because, unlike other employees who don't have a lot of college education, those college doctors who are already selected as one of the best at school were unable to work with computer technology. And that's the saddest thing I've ever seen. I always thought it would be the other way around, that it would be the first.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u29	Thank you. Now, Mr Běhounek, with a point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u30	In the meantime, Stanjura's colleague left. I, of course, want to say that there are no technical solutions in this amendment. There aren't any things we're gonna be doing. There's a space that we're opening up by law. I really don't understand this here in the House. I'm probably a dumb doctor because on the one hand, we say, "I need to do an electronization, but we can't, we don't have a law." If we want to make a legal standard so that we can follow it, it's wrong again. Then let's resign to everything.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u31	Thank you. Mr Brázdil's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u32	I am sorry - Mr President, through you - Mr Opálek, my colleague. You're dehonesting doctors here who are supposedly unable to learn how to control ones and zeros. It's not like that. This is where health care is often held by people who should already be resting somewhere in the mountains and skiing and so on, if they could do it. So they should be retired, and they're holding the health service. And those people-- I don't know, maybe when you're 70, you won't learn new technologies that young college kids already know. Don't do this.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u33	Thank you. Mr Opálka's point of fact. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u34	Thank you. I would like to respond indirectly to the colleague who spoke before me. I think those 70-year-old doctors were in their 50s 20 years ago. I also learned on my computer quite shortly after the coup, because I knew that without him the next life would be more difficult. I'm not 70, I'm 65. But the five years aren't that big of a difference. So I don't think there's even a problem with the computer control, but he doesn't want to keep track of it. That's the problem. Because it's okay sometimes it's complicated to manage.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u35	Thank you. I wonder if anyone else is still reporting for the general debate. I do not see any more applications at this point, and in that case, I am ending the general debate. I ask the Minister or rapporteur if they want to take the final words at this point. It's not like that. I am opening a detailed debate in which I am registering two applications. First Mrs Hnyková will appear, Mr Běhounek will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me apply to my amendment, which I have put into the system under number 5903. I have already commented on it in the general debate. This amendment is drawn up in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. At the same time, however, I will also apply to my original amendment, which I tabled on the Social Policy Committee under number 5618, because I have been asked to do so by social service providers because it seems better to them, and I will try to convince my colleagues on the Social Policy Committee when we discuss this in the Guarantee Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u37	Thank you, too. Now, then, Mr Běhounek. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u38	After all these discussions, I say that I am signing up for the parliamentary proposal, which is in the system as House document number 6036.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u39	Thank you. With a factual remark duly registered by Mr Zavadil. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u40	I've only had a short time. I am signing up for my amendment 6044, which I commented on in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-11-ps2013-056-05-001-008.u41	Thank you, too. Now, Mr. Hovorka. It is not present, in which case I delete the application for the debate. I wonder if anyone else is reporting for a detailed debate. I see no one, in which case I conclude a detailed debate. Here too, I ask the Minister and the rapporteur whether they want the final word. It's not like that. In that case, thank you. I'm ending second reading of this proposal. I am opening another point in today's meeting, which is:
