ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-021-039.u1	39. Government bill amending Act No. 326/1999 Coll., on the residence of foreigners in the territory of the Czech Republic and on the amendment of certain laws, as amended, and other related laws /house printing 990/ - first reading Under the authority of the Government, the proposal will be made by the Minister of the Interior Milan Chovanec. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-021-039.u2	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, honourable Members, allow me, under the authority of the Government, to present the Government's bill on the residence of foreigners and other related laws. The main objective of the proposal is to strengthen the security features of the migration process and mechanisms to prevent abuse of the provisions of the migration process. This goal is achieved by the government, for example, by changing the frequently abused provisions, by making more effective use of classified information and by changing procedural provisions which do not correspond to the specifics of the alien residence proceedings. The Government also responds with these measures to the initiatives of the Committee on European Affairs, which has asked the Government precisely to strengthen the security features of the migration process. Some of the proposed measures are also part of a government package aimed at increasing the internal security of the Czech Republic. The proposal also transposes two European Union directives into the Czech rule of law which govern the conditions of residence of foreigners and members of third countries. It is both for foreigners to be employed as seasonal workers in the Czech Republic and for foreigners to be transferred to the Czech Republic to perform a specific qualified position within one group, i.e. between the individual components of this group. These activities are followed up by the European Union, and the government by its own proposals strengthens the area of so-called economic migration, but we are still prepared to place emphasis on the security risks associated with this. The government's aim is to promote such forms of migration, which will benefit the Czech economy and the Czech Republic while strengthening its international competitiveness. For this reason, the proposal allows the government to create specific programmes for domestic employers and certain categories of foreigners, their future employees. These foreigners will be allowed to enter and stay in the territory under more favourable conditions. The government will also be able to respond flexibly to the current shortage of workers in a particular sector. It is also proposed to introduce a long-term residence permit for investors planning to make a significant investment in the Czech Republic and to create a fixed number of new jobs within it. These foreign investors will be able to choose between a standard long-term stay and thus obtain a long-term visa for business purposes or, on the basis of newly established mechanisms, obtain a two-year authorisation in the Czech Republic. The proposal also contains other changes resulting from application practice, which must also be implemented in the light of the current developments in the international situation. On the one hand, the government's aim is to promote migration that will benefit the Czech Republic and at the same time take into account the security risks associated with migration. The priority of the government in this matter is for qualified labour to come to the Czech Republic. On the other hand, it is not possible for the security situation in cities and areas where these people are coming to deteriorate. For these reasons, the Government and the Ministry of the Interior will carry out and conduct a security scan in places where there is more accumulation of foreign workers and the feeling of security in these locations is getting worse. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-021-039.u3	Thank you, Minister. I now ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mrs Zuzka Bebarová Rujbrová to present us with the relevant law. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-021-039.u4	Good afternoon, colleagues and colleagues. Legislation in the area of residence of foreigners is changed here basically every year, although we belong to better ones compared to other countries of the European Union, even as regards compliance with it. As a rule, the reason - and this time too - is the need to implement another European directive. And that something will add to it, it's also common. In the present case, the transposition of the 2014 Directive on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of employment as seasonal workers and the 2014 Directive on conditions of entry and residence of third-country nationals on the basis of a transfer within the company should be ensured. A new type of residence permit is introduced for foreign investors, where it is an advantage of long-term residence conditions for potential investors from foreign entrepreneurs. Finally, as far as this is concerned, there is a tightening of the authorisation process in administrative proceedings in matters of residence of foreigners by introducing a number of derogations to the regulation of administrative proceedings in the name of strengthening security aspects. Some of these questions will be for discussion, and I propose that the Security Committee take place on the ground.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-021-039.u5	Thank you to the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate which I do not register any application for. In the absence of a report, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. As I do not see any motion for a return or rejection, we will address the motion for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted for discussion of the Security Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone suggest a commandment to another guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the Security Committee's commandment as a guarantee committee. Initiating vote. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is voting number 47, 133 Members and Members are registered, for 118, against none. The motion was accepted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? It's not like that. In the event that this is not the case, I note that the proposal was directed to the Security Committee as a guarantee. I'm ending reading this bill first. I'll read the apologies I have here. - I thank the Minister and the rapporteur. - Mr Ivan Gabal apologizes today from 15 to 16, Mr Jaroslav Holík apologizes today from 16 o'clock for reasons of work, Mrs Helena Válková apologizes today from 15 to 16 for personal reasons, Mrs Marta Semelová apologises today from 15 o'clock to the end of the day for reasons of urgent negotiations in the region, Minister Michaela Marksová apologises today for afternoon negotiations for work reasons. That was an apology. Let's move on to the next bill that is
