ParlaMint-CZ_2017-11-28-ps2017-002-01-004-003.u1	3. Proposal for a confirmation of the validity of the resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies adjusted its internal conditions and detailed rules of negotiations between 1996 and 2017 (2nd to 7th parliamentary term) /Departmental document 12/ At the beginning of this parliamentary term, a working draft of this document has been sent to you for familiarisation and preliminary examination to each member club. You have also been served with House Document No 12, which contains a motion for a resolution from the Chamber of Deputies and an overview of all the resolutions by which the Chamber of Deputies adjusted its internal circumstances during the 2nd to 7th parliamentary term. I will open the debate by asking, where appropriate, representatives of individual Members' clubs to make their proposals and if they do not wish to agree with any of these resolutions to do so now. If the chairmen of the club have no proposals, I am opening a general debate to which I have no application. I ask if anyone from the scene is applying to the motions for resolutions. Not either. I can therefore end the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. I also have no application for a detailed debate. I'm looking to see if anyone's checking in from the scene. It's not like that. I can also end the detailed debate. I will begin the vote on House Document 12. You have the motion for a resolution on the first page of this document, with the resolution by which the Chamber of Deputies regulates its internal circumstances and the detailed rules of negotiations between 1996 and 2017, i.e. in the 2nd to 7th parliamentary term, the authentic text of which is set out in the Annex, as amended, remains valid during the 8th parliamentary term. Secondly, in the resolution of the Chamber of Deputies number 20 of 12 September 2006, from the second meeting of the fifth parliamentary term of the Chamber of Deputies, as amended, a new point 2 is inserted after point 1 which is - the only amendment against the past: "has laid down more detailed rules for examining applications pursuant to Section 24 of Act No. 218/2000 Coll., on budgetary rules, on the amendment of certain laws, as amended." [[Budget rules]] Point 2 shall be referred to as point 3. Initiating vote number 21 and asking who agrees with this proposal. Anyone against it? Thank you. Voting order number 21, 186 for 164, against no one. The motion has been approved. I note that the motion for a resolution has been approved and these rules will be adopted in addition to the Rules of Procedure. The Chamber of Deputies will manage in the eighth term. Thank you. That's where we discussed point three. According to the approved agenda, we will deal with item number
