ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u1	292. Government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (the Electronic Communications Act), as amended, and Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended /house print 1053/ - second reading Under the authority of the Government, Jiří Havlíček, Minister of Industry and Trade, will state the draft bill. Please, Minister, take the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I present to you the second reading of the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act and the Czech Television Act. As I said about three weeks ago during the first reading, the reason for processing this bill is to ensure and implement the process of transition to a new, spectrally more efficient digital terrestrial broadcasting standard DVB-T2 as a key part of the implementation of the terrestrial digital broadcasting strategy approved by the government last year. Furthermore, the Government's bill contains aspects strengthening consumer protection in the field of electronic communications and the position of the Czech Telecommunications Authority in the field of regulation. The guarantee economic committee discussed the draft law on 19 April and recommended to the Chamber of Deputies its approval as amended by the amendment adopted. I would like to thank the members of the Economic Committee for a constructive, albeit perhaps somewhat turbulent debate, and I would also like to thank for the approach and the final vote on the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u3	Thank you, too, Minister. We ordered the proposal at first reading to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. The Committee's resolution was delivered as House prints 1053/1 and 2. And now I ask that the rapporteur of the Economic Committee, Mr Jiří Valenta, take the floor, inform us of the discussion of the committee's proposal and justify any amendments. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, this time I will not limit myself only to the presentation of the resolution, but I will really inform you about how the negotiations on the Economic Committee took place. The draft law was discussed last Wednesday, 19 April, where 16 amendments were submitted at the duly announced date.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u5	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but I'm going to ask you to keep your voice down so that you understand what you're saying. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u6	So 16 amendments in total. The entire 15 of them were dealt with negatively by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and only one amendment neutrally, namely the amendment proposed by fellow Member Kolovratník. Only the proposed regulation of the law was finally approved by the Economic Committee. One amendment was not delivered to the Economic Committee on a well-defined date, namely by a fellow Member, Mr Luzar, who will certainly mention his amendment today. It was therefore not discussed by the Economic Committee because it had not been settled before by the Ministry of Industry and Trade. As rapporteur, I must say that a large number of private entities, whether professional or professional, are entering the process of adopting this amendment. I can name it at random, for example. The Czech association of satellite operators, who even had the Weinhold Legal memorandum prepared to assess the compliance of the proposed amendment with public support rules, and, as you know, with negative results. It is precisely on the legal position of the Ministry of Industry and Trade itself on the problem of possible illegal public support that I would now allow myself to ask the Minister again. Furthermore, I have registered the ICT Union's ingence or the Association of Mobile Network Operators, as well as the Chamber of Commerce, the Czech Electronic Communications Association and many others. Some of them have even been given the opportunity to present their demands during the negotiations of the Economic Committee. And I repeat here again that I lacked the expression of consumer and consumer organisations to create a complete picture of the situation. And I note that some of them were actually interested in their comments. Personally, I would now be very careful in our subjective assessment of the inputs of individual interest organisations, whether their interests are justified, less justified or unjustified, so that we do not destruct the salami method and then completely catapult this whole standard, even though I fear that someone here will want to do it completely consciously and purposefully, under camouflage of the most professional and systemic intentions. In my opinion, this is a very necessary amendment, for the mandatory transition to DVB-T2 ordered by the European Parliament to be absolutely necessary. Although I don't agree with her in her content. It does not seem necessary to me, and it will also draw several unnecessary billions of crowns out of the pockets of our citizens and also from the state. With the part of the amendment, where the government was implemented, I would say that only once again included the consumer measures, which, by virtue of it, disappeared from here three years ago, in a business relationship called. operator - customer, I just have to fully agree. So please be careful not to pour out the baby with the bathtub, so that by contradicting the not entirely necessary other and not certainly the latest digital standard, once again, we will not harm the quite legitimate interests of hundreds of thousands of Czech customers, who are forced to call very expensively and very expensively to buy mobile data, and this issue of concluding contracts is unbalanced and the regular customer is literally financially shaving. But I am not thinking of the employees of the Ministry of Finance and other umbrella organizations or the Ministry of Agriculture, where their leaders, i.e. Babiš and Jurečka, can, in cooperation with operators, push the price of the tariff with unlimited calls to Polish prices and even lower, up to fifty-coron. However, the problem is that, while in Poland, everyone can get a tariff for unlimited calls with 10 GB of data, at the price of this amount of data for CZK 109 only employees of these ministries. However, a regular customer, such as T-Mobile, will pay almost three times as much a month, namely on the Mobile L tariff of CZK 1,300. But he who can, he can. But at the same time, the question is, what mysterious abilities do some of our ministers have? I think other citizens would want to rule them. Thank you for your attention and I will then add the resolution of the Economic Committee from the 51st meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u7	Thank you, too. I am opening a general debate. Please continue your speech.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u8	So I'm gonna pick up the slack. Decision of the Economic Committee of the 51st meeting of 19 April 2017 on the Government Bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on electronic communications and amending certain related laws, as amended, and Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended, House Press 1053. Economic Committee of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic after hearing the opening words of the Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček, reports by Mr Jiří Valenta and after a general and detailed debate I. recommends to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic to discuss and approve the House Press 1053 as amended by the approved amendment: In the first article. The following point 4 is inserted after point 3: "4. The Government shall set the Technical plan for the transition the date of termination of the terrestrial digital broadcasting in DVB-T standard, but no later than 1. 2. 2021'. The following amendment points are numbered. II. It empowers the Committee's rapporteur, in cooperation with the draftsman and legislative department of the Office of the Chamber of Deputies of the Czech Republic, to make legislative technical amendments which do not affect the substance of the proposed law. III. At the meeting of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic, he instructs the Committee's rapporteurs to present a report on the results of the discussion of this bill in the Economic Committee. IV. He instructs the chairman of the committee to present this resolution to the President of the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u9	Thank you, too. So I am opening up a general debate and reading the apologies. From 17.30 today, Minister Daniel Herman apologizes for the reasons of the ministry, today from 17.30 for the reasons of the work Mr Tejc apologizes and today from 17.30 for the reasons of health, Mr Vojtěch Adam apologises. I'm registering several applications for the general debate. Mr Pilný will be the first to speak, Mr Adamec and others will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to repeat here what the law is and is not, because it has also been said from the rapporteur's mouth that the European Parliament or the European Commission is forcing us to adopt a new T2 standard of television broadcasting. That's not true. There is no institution of the European Union that would force us to do so. The law was supposed to be about releasing the 700 MHz frequency for mobile data. To do this, a number of measures need to be taken, and certainly some of these measures are proposed in that law, even if they are problematic. Now that the bubble has burst here about this law being designed to reduce the price of mobile data, we're going to talk about what this law has revealed and where its weak spots are. I just want to say that what I'm going to say here is just facts, it's not an attack on the new minister, because I understand that he's inherited the law a little bit. But I have a whole series of things to say here that make this law very problematic. First thing. We've got some numbers in our hands because of this law. I'll show them around. The first is that access to the Internet in the Czech Republic does not have 1.5 million citizens. Other people don't have smartphones, so they don't even have mobile data. However, this group has a lot to do with the fact that they will have to buy a new TV or set-top box. Next. In the Czech Republic, 86 percent of citizens do not have access to the Internet at a speed greater than 10 megabits per second. Europe's already at 100. Thanks to these facts and others, we are becoming a sort of museum for Europe. We adopted the High Speed Internet Act with a huge delay. Meanwhile, there was a dispute over who would spend 14 billion EU subsidies on high-speed Internet, and it didn't spend a cent on it. We further discovered that the data in this country are sold at a completely different price than that which is sometimes published. There are institutions, and some have been appointed by the rapporteur, who receive data at a completely different price. Obviously, the price has to be subsidized. Someone has to pay it. It will be paid by ordinary customers who happen to not change the operator to make an individual contract for them. What could change that is virtual operators. It's just for someone who doesn't know who a virtual operator is. It is stipulated by law and regulation that infrastructure owners, these are three mobile operators, must offer this infrastructure to other interested parties. They're doing it, but when you compare the price that those business customers or public or government customers have, they do it at such a price that the data is just unsellable. But virtual operators, because they have a much lower cost to build a distribution network, they are news outlets, they are Tesco etc., so they have huge opportunities to possibly sell the data cheaper, but that's only assuming that the license holders treat them in some way. The Czech telecommunications office for virtual operators has done virtually nothing. They entered the market, but unfortunately they are doomed to sell at some price in the SIM card shops and talk mainly about calls and not about data. The poor role of the ČTÚ is also reflected in the fact that the fines granted to operators are completely banal. And I do not believe that those fines that are in the new law and which are significantly higher, and we are even the second country in Europe, which has them as a percentage of turnover, that they change something about it. The fatal problems we have in infrastructure are also reflected in the fact that it is completely unnecessary in this country to talk about eGovernment. We'd have to have digital infrastructure first. It is completely unnecessary to adopt laws on chip IDs when they are useless - because who will be able to use them and how to use them? That's not all the trouble. That's not what the law is about. But this year we will have huge problems with data boxes that are getting into a critical situation because the Czech Post license ends. The state has not yet bought the program from the Czech Post, the ÚOHS dropped the competition on the operators. We're gonna get in the same situation as the Kapsch myth. The absurd dispute is between the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. Anyone who actually manages this thing is on display. If I were to put out two fundamental problems of this law, the first is that in that law public support is granted to terrestrial television operators. I will now note that part of this support has actually already been given to Czech Television by the fact that we recently adopted here the Act on the fact that Czech Television will not pay VAT on programme making precisely because the cost of switching to the new TV standard was expected to be increased. However, the reference to Section 27, which allegedly states that the aid will not be paid if we do not receive notification from the European Union, is completely inadequate. The notification has barely begun, we have no report, and it would certainly be good to make it conditional upon the adoption of this law by either approving it or not. Because there's no rush. There's really enough time to move on to a new terrestrial broadcast that we probably can't stop anymore. There's no rush. Any shortening of the time limits and the negotiation of this law at the rate that is murderously proposed and affected by the Economic Committee is completely, but completely unnecessary. The second thing I lack in the law is support for virtual operators. Because the illusion of another operator coming here and paying the state 4 billion is an illusion. Operators have a lot of work to do to build networks in the existing standards. Now there is a new selection procedure for releasing another frequency band, where profits are expected to be made in the order of 140 or 150 million. I don't believe that under the conditions that are now laid down by law, anyone will ever come to this country. So the idea that we're in a hurry just to lower the data is completely illusionary, and I'm assuming this bubble has actually burst. So I'm saying again, there's no rush. Unfortunately, even though there were other alternatives, we have to move on to the new television standard. But it would certainly be a good thing if the law supported not only new potential operators, but also virtual operators, and also solved the problem so that citizens who have to pay billions to buy new TVs or set-top boxes would not have to pay a billion more public support, which the European Union will reject. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u11	Thank you, too. With a factual remark, Mr Stupčuk, then with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I hope it takes me two minutes to make a point. The whole point of the problem is, in my opinion, whether there is a competitive environment. I say no, and this is an international comparison within European countries that shows that this is not really the case. I would like to point out that the role of the Czech Telecommunications Authority, one of the most important tasks, is to replace the lack of competition by its regulatory activities. There's been a complete failure here, and there's been a failure in all of us. I would like to refer here to 2015, when the Audit Committee has clearly adopted a resolution on the serious doubts about how the electronic communications market works, and has responded by giving the Authority's initiative to protect competition in 2015. I have witnessed and believe that many colleagues from the Supervisory Committee will support me or testify to my claim that we have witnessed when prices were changed online during the meeting on the Supervisory Committee so that individual mobile operators do not really seem to have a cartel agreement on how individual call prices should look, individual tariffs, whether unlimited or data transfers. The problem here exists, the problem here is everywhere, and I again point out here that there was an inactive Czech Telecommunications Authority, which is supposed to replace the shortcomings of competitiveness by its regulatory activities in the description of work from the law. We called on him to do it, to warn him. And the worst part is that it was also consecrated by the Office for the Protection of Competition in a situation where we clearly declared when individual price lists of the most common and most used tariffs were simply covered by a tenth of a penny.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u13	Your time, Mr. Ambassador. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u14	Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u15	Thank you, too. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u16	Thank you for the floor. I would only respond to two things. Perhaps no one here has said, perhaps not even the representative of the petitioner or the translator, that thanks to this law the prices for calls, calls or dates should fall, but by this law we are clearly heading towards breaking up the oligopoly, which has been running and dividing the market for many years. If that happens, the data will, of course, become entering competition, their price will be reduced, just as the price of calls will be reduced. I would also like to add or correct Mr. Chairman of the Pilný Economic Committee. He knows well and also sat there at the meeting of the Economic Committee when I repeatedly asked the Minister whether the transposition of this European law is mandatory, i.e. mandatory, if you wish, in our legal order, I have been told by the Minister that you do. And my colleague Pilný sat there, he didn't dispute it, he didn't ask, he didn't respond. So I don't understand why he's saying that no one's forcing us now and that you don't have to digitalize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u17	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan has been pilný. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I think the rapporteur should sort out the notes in some way. What we have to do is release the 700 megahertz band that is designed for mobile data. That is what we must do, and we have committed ourselves to this at the conference of the World Radio Association. What no one is forcing us to do is switch to a new form of terrestrial broadcasting. Nobody, no institution of the European Union is forcing us to do this! We're really committed to releasing the 700 megahertz frequency. These are two different things and it would be good for the rapporteur to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u19	Thank you, too. And now, Mr Adamec, duly applied for, and Mr Leo Luzar will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u20	Thank you. Mr President, Minister, colleagues. I confess that I was also a victim of the rush when the deadline for submitting amendments was very short, and I must say that my advisors made a mistake there, too, so I pulled them back and I will be here today in a detailed debate. The amendments I was withdrawing were very simple. This is a clarification of legislation. It is a question of setting up transition networks and determining their purpose so that they are directly in the law and not in the way that it will be conceived as an obligation for holders to allocate radio frequencies. And then there's an explanation of what circle of subjects, i.e. holders of existing allocations, appropriate individual authorisations are to be allocated. I'll read it in a detailed debate. The amendment is in the system. And the other one, which I have considered for a very long time because I know it will trigger, I would say, perhaps controversial reactions, so I admit that when I read sanctions against operators whose pricing policy, of course, bothers us all, and when I read how the Czech Telecommunications Authority was collecting fines, and when I take the view that I certainly do not share the idea that the greater sanctions, the better it will go, I finally think that sanctions should of course be of a warning nature, but also an education. But if you do the liquidation sanctions, the companies will start acting like it. The action will always cause a reaction and you'll be poking the water balloon so long as you tear it up and you can do more harm than good. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] I understand my colleagues don't care about that from the left corner over there. I understand that if we were talking about social problems, they might be more interested. But what I'm saying is, the sanctions really bother me. And I think at least we should get back to discussing whether it's okay or not. Sanctions as a percentage of turnover, President Pilný said so here, we are actually the second country to consider its introduction, but I think that such sanctions belong to competition law and not to the law that concerns the functioning of these companies, these operators. I really don't think that's the right way. I think that, of course, a better way for the telecommunications office to really properly and hard require the obligations to use the values set out in the law, because if you do this from turnover, then of course it can also have negative consequences, such as dividing companies into smaller companies, to reduce turnover...
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u21	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador, but in fact, in the left corner, part of the Members are still interrupting your speech, so I'm asking for your peace of mind. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u22	Thank you. And that's not enough of us here today to make a noise. On my left, on my left! So it can actually lead to hiding with the company and dividing into different subsidiaries and so on, so that sanctions will affect the lowest rate of turnover in that percentage of turnover. It can reduce, let's say, the introduction of new technologies, innovation, because every introduction of new technology is always risky. It can cause some problems, complications. Chairman Pilný here was talking about the fiction of the fourth mobile operator. Well, I don't think that's gonna do any good, I guess, for someone fourth to come here. And, of course, it's going to be a big problem for any small entities that are going to do business on this market, and it could be, as we said here, virtual providers. I think we really need to consider the peace here. I remember that when we've always done fines, sanctions in any law, there's always been sanctions, so especially I have to say that our biggest regulators - the left - those sanctions to do the highest possible to find out that no one is able to pay those sanctions. I really don't think sanctions are meant to be liquidated. The sanctions are intended to straighten the market, set the conditions, raise the provider, and, of course, to put it through his fingers, as the people say, but not destroy it. [[17.50 hours]] So I will, of course, allow myself to make an amendment in a detailed debate, where this percentage of turnover will go away, with the fact that the amounts will increase a little bit, even though I think it doesn't have any meaning. Because if you look, I have done such statistics, where according to the annual reports of the ČTÚ in 2013 fines of a total amount of 9.1 million were imposed. Crowns. Otherwise, by the way, the percentages of turnover are billions to be clear between us. Then in 2014 they were better a little, the selection, probably the operators started a little angry - 21.7 miles. Crowns. And in 2015, they got even more angry, so they got a slightly higher penalty - 24.5 miles. The crown, but all together, please. Not one in particular. And here are the designs, of course, 10 miles, 20 miles, 40 miles. I just think that it's enough and a percentage of the turnover, so we don't have to, no matter what we think about it, make them look very harsh and hard to us, so I think that this measure from the other side is not adequate to the problem that needs to be solved. So I thank you for your attention, and I will read it in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u23	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. I will therefore now ask for Mr Leo Luzar's speech. Marek Benda will be ready. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of my speech I would like to respond to my previous speakers, who, in my opinion, have used an interesting argument here. It was said that they had been heard during the discussion on the Economic Committee, or that the Economic Committee had been informed of certain facts or, where appropriate, of certain facts. materials that show the poor functioning of the Czech Telecommunications Office. His often inaction, often the incomprehensible reactions that were to occur, did not occur, or then occurred when they were not to occur. I would like to point out the events of the last few days when we learned that mobile data can be provided to operators, mobile calls via wholesale access at the level of 50, 60 crowns of the monthly fee. My colleague Pilný here used the expression that it must be subsidized. But I say, if it's really subsidised, then it's a violation of trade competition, because we live in an oligopolistic market where these are companies that are obviously and clearly, if they provide subsidised services, it has to explain why they are subsidised. This is the same as the Czech Railways when they provide subsidised services. Or when the carriers provide private subsidised services on some line. It must be defended before the Antimonopoly Office, in our case the Office for the Protection of Competition, whether they are by chance in breach of competition. So, if it is the fact that these are subsidised prices, at this point, I call on the Office for Competition to immediately start saving this negotiation here and a flagrant violation in the context of subsidising these prices. However, unless it is a subsidised price and these prices correspond to the value of the service provided, so they are not dumped, we have a second authority here that should do so. This is the Czech Telecommunications Office, which should ask for a clear explanation as to how the costs provided wholesale for a particular company, by the order of thousands of employees, are so much cheaper than the individual who hires this service by hundreds of percent of the price. In order to prove that the savings of providing this service to thousands of people on the other hand, operators are entitled to reduce costs by a thousand percent. If the operator is unable to provide this, then it is a clear violation and the Czech Telecommunications Authority is to begin investigating the granting of a fine. This, in my opinion, is without discussion a call for these two institutions to start doing something about this. I will now return to the amendments that I have prepared for this law. There's two of them. The first person I sign up for in a detailed debate may be trying to correct a minor mistake. The law is in § 63 para. The 12th time limit is in place. Time limit, which refers to six months of possible preparation of operators for changes resulting from this law. Because that point 12 is new, there's been talk of six months. There is still point 6, sorry, point 10, I apologize, which in point 6 also refers to six months. It could happen that perhaps by a rigorous interpretation of the law, someone could say that six plus six months means twelve months, and in this case the operator has twelve months to adjust its contractual terms under this law. I propose that the text in paragraphs 10 and 12 be deleted. Of course, in a detailed debate, I will sign up for this, and in written form it is introduced in the system. This should enable the lack of duplication of interpretation and, indeed, at all points, allow operators to change within six months, as the legislature submits. The second amendment, which is based in the system, consists of two amendments. The first amendment refers to a clear determination of the period of notice. In general, the law states that the notice period is given within the framework of the portability of the contract, it is given within the framework of termination but is not given within the framework of termination of data services. It happened to me personally when I wanted to cancel the data SIM card on the tablet that the notice period for my operator was 42 days. With another operator, I've been told, but those there, I'm not going to name a particular company, have 45 days. In other words, the point is that you will go beyond the two settlement periods that will be loaded to you, even if you no longer need the SIM card, or you have sold the tablet, but you will still pay for two months for services that you are no longer using. And second, the operator is buying time - in my case 42 days, to start putting phone pressure on me, so that I don't happen to change my mind. They're starting to offer me different tablets. And you're unhappy with our service, why do you want to cancel it? You'll just get into a certain pressure that the operator is developing on you, if it's not behind it that you want to move on to the competition. At the second point, which I propose to change, it is also an effort to tighten up the competition between companies. I'm sure you all remember the beginnings of mobile operators when each mobile operator was ahead of its customer. When he offered you discounts, when he offered you mobile phones for almost free or for a crown. You remember the time when the customer was really a master and he could choose. And when a new company moved in a competitive market, which kind of stirred up these waters of the existing pond. Barely these companies that operate on our market have gained their size covering the whole Czech territory, the water in the pond has calmed down very quickly and really the oligopolis of companies has formed here. This carries the consequences that are reflected in an effort to reduce benefits. When you, as a customer, have an advantage with your operator when you sign a contract, whether during the transition or when a new one is created, it usually offers you a more favourable tariff or some other discount for signing for two years. Usually for two years, so am I. Yes, many of these companies' customers are hearing about this, and they're closing the contract for two years. But what's a surprise to them is that after those two years, this contract, the advantage, is automatically prolonged. This means, without you noticing, because it is usually written in small print on an invoice three months in advance, which you get, that it is coming to the end of that two-year period, so automatically, if you do not respond, this contract or this will be prolonged for another two years. When you think you've had that contract for at least three or four years, you want to switch to another operator, suddenly you find that the commitment you made for those two years is still going to take you and you're under the impression that if you terminate that contract, you're going to get a penalty for failing to comply with this agreement, you're going to stay with the existing operator. [[18.00 hours]] This is common practice. Even in my particular case, which I can document and which I have already put into the investigation by the Czech Telecommunications Authority, the operator did not take into account any legal terms until he should have alerted, and the automatic prolongation in the year(?) He was only moving forward so that he had an argument that I shouldn't go to another company. So my second proposal here for this is a clear declaration in the law that not automatic prolongation, but on the contrary, if you do not demonstrate your agreement that you want to extend the commitment period, the contract goes to a classical contract for an indefinite period, i.e. without a commitment, and it's up to the operator to try to prevent you from giving you some more advantageous offer, so that you can re-establish the commitment you have for those two years. I believe that even here this point will help a little bit of competition so that the operator has more effort to keep you, so that the offers he makes are better and better than, for example, two years ago when he committed you. These are the two proposals I have prepared for this law. The third proposal rather specifies, perhaps it could also be legislatively technical, I will leave it to the committee to discuss it as they proceed. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u25	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. We will continue, with a factual remark from Mr Pilný. A colleague, Marek Benda, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u26	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I apologize for having to say relatively trivial things here, but if we are talking about subsidized prices, we have to distinguish, for example, the Czech Railways, which are receiving public support, and it can be qualified as illegal, since mobile operators, which are private companies, simply do some services as loss-making and subsidize them from their own money. There's nothing to regulate - only in case they get a dominant role on the market in this way. But that's not going to happen, because when you look at how mobile operators work, they all just work the same way. These good prices for businesses and state entities, they all just do. Otherwise, I would have liked to agree that things like that consent to the extension of these contracts is assumed, unfortunately, this is a common disease not only for mobile operators, but you see it in almost every contract. Of course, that's wrong. And it's very good that, finally, in that law, what operators have abused greatly is that if there is any modification of the contract, you have the right to terminate it and the operator has to notify you. The paragraph that was approved here by the constitutional majority is simply wrong and mobile operators abused it. Definitely switching to another type of contract is a change of contract that you have to agree to. And this law, I hope, even though the paragraph is not formulated happily, makes it possible. So that's right. But to regulate the prices of commercial companies, if they do not violate regulation rules, it simply is not possible and it is not necessary and it would also be completely wrong.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u27	I thank my colleague Pilný. Now with the priority right of the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. I am only very briefly and I assume that in the general debate for the last time, I would only respond to three things. We can complain that the time between first and second reading was reduced to 20 days and was extremely short, so that the Members who proposed their amendments had at least time to put forward amendments. At least the Ministry of Industry and Trade had time for this as well as the petitioner of this amendment. But beware, it was agreed at a meeting with the Prime Minister of Sobotka, where they were representatives of all the parliamentary parties, and they promised the Prime Minister that they would no longer contradict this period. And I hear it from almost every other person here how short the time is. But it directly leads me to the idea that some of my colleagues intend to smash this bill so far, so that it is not approved by the end of this parliamentary term. The question of liquidation fines - and now I would respond to one of my previous speakers. The proposed increase in fines for administrative offences, up to 5 to 10 per cent of the net turnover of the operator achieved in the last completed financial year, must be considered a very good step towards the enforcement of the legal obligations of operators, and not that they do not. Although this amount may become astronomical, taking into account the annual billion-dollar profits of mobile operators, this amount poses absolutely no threat to them. Operators are therefore not in any way motivated to comply with legal requirements. And the arguments that increasing fines is unnecessary, because even those are not granted at the maximum rate today, stem mostly from the ignorance of administrative punishment, and record it to mobile operators who, of course, do not want the higher fines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u29	Thank you to the rapporteur. With a factual remark first, Ivan Adamec, because he is electronically logged in, and then colleague Luzar. A colleague of Benda will be able to make it with a proper application. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Colleagues, colleagues, Minister, that's exactly what I said here. Well, that's nice to say they have big turns, so we're just gonna ointment them. But I also said that today we can masturbate them, the Czech Telecommunications Authority, if I say it very harshly. But if you look at the results, what's the result of the administrative punishment? Very low. So the problem will be somewhere else.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u31	Thank you. Now, Mr Luzar, with a point of fact and then a duly registered colleague, Mr Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u32	Thank you. I would only react briefly by your means to my colleague Pilný. He talked about a free market business where an entrepreneur can give his goods for free. He's right, it's up to him. But telecommunications doesn't run on the free market in that concept of classic, they're regulated because there's a natural oligopolis. Therefore, the Czech Telecommunications Authority is also equipped with powers to regulate. In other words, the two comments that I had on the situation that occurred, the different prices between the wholesaler, in this case the Ministry in the data package, in the call package for CZK 53, and the citizen, the individual, for the same service in thousands of crowns, are, in my view, a clear violation of either the competition protection law in the first case, or, in the second case, a call for an investigation by the Czech Telecommunications Authority to demonstrate the legitimacy of such high prices for individuals, that is, in other words, the costs they charge them against, say, larger customers than those individuals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u33	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Marek Benda, now duly signed up. Mr Martin Novotný will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u34	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I can see that the level of interest is very low, so I will probably not delay it too much, but I would like to make a few points. There are two things that are reunited here. One is some better regulation of the operator's market, and the Prime Minister has promised that if this amendment is adopted, it will certainly be much better on the telephone market and all citizens will make phone calls much cheaper. It turns out, so far, the ministry has been making cheaper calls, and the citizens haven't been touched. And I'm afraid it'll be exactly the same in the future. Well, let's believe something fundamental might happen. The second part is the so-called. Diginovela, which presents some concept of transition and release of the band, as Mr Pilný here said, the 700 megaherz band. This amendment is actually presented terribly prematurely, because as far as it is known, and I am now actually based on legal analyses that have been delivered here, so we do not have notification, even a preliminary notification from the European Commission, whether we can do this and whether we can do it in a manner that is proposed by the Ministry. Mr Pilný has already pointed that out here. I'm sorry to use it, but he said in part what I wanted to talk about. [[18.10 hours]] The guarantee in Section 27 and the question referred for a preliminary ruling is basically zero, since it would, perhaps, concern directly the aid paid by the telecommunications authority, but it is far from affecting the other things that this bill promises to individual players on the market. And here I'm afraid that we can potentially get into a huge mess, because if we promise something here - licenses, extension of licenses for ten years, and other steps to draw attention to the legal analyses that we have received - and then there is a situation where the European Commission tells us "no, no, no, you must not do that" - but at the same time in the Czech Republic it will be a valid law, so we are all private players on the market, and that is just private players, there are no state enterprises, they are private players, they will start judging: you have promised us something from the law and now the European Commission has blocked it for you, but it was your fault that you promised it by law. And that is the concern that I have and for which I will bring forward in a detailed debate some variants of proposals that say either increase the licence after the transition, but you cannot promise them for ten years, or at least postpone the effectiveness of these provisions until it is clear and clear that this aid is compatible with the law of the European Union. Because if we promise to support someone under the law, not directly financial support, I would say that, let's say, in this Section 27, the direct financial support is somehow addressed, but if we promise some long-term advantages and then we find that these agreements are contrary to the law of the European Union, then we can get into unending arbitrations that can cost this country a huge amount of money. We know this repeatedly from various stories that we have seen here over the past twenty years, when the promises made by the state in the form of laws or individual authorities in the form of decisions have committed us and for a long time have become a problem that no playing machines can be disturbed, no billboards can be cancelled, no one can cancel this or that. Here I would like to be much more careful, and I would very much ask the Minister, at least in the final words at the end of the general debate, to try in some way to clarify how it is with the question of these legal promises and their possible enforcement by arbitration in a situation where the European Commission would say no, this type of public support is illegal. Because we're not going to make it there with Section 27, and that might cause us more trouble. Then I would speak in a detailed debate and, if necessary, justify my amendments to you. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u35	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Martin Novotný, Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u36	Colleagues and colleagues, have a nice evening. This discussion has many levels, many layers of that standard. There is a debate and a dispute between those who believe in the miraculous effect of a lot of perfectly rational and good provisions in this law on the development of pricing on the market, versus those who believe that it is more about the difference that we experienced, for example, on the railways, where it was simply not about improving the legal position of passengers compared to those who provide transport services, but primarily about liberalising the market and embarking on the tracks of some other operators. And where it's complicated, Mr. Pilný here was talking about the virtual ones. Then the subject of potential arbitrage is important here. But I'd like to mention something else. I don't know if we're losing contact with the normal human world of people living in this country anymore. That standard connects the world of mobile phones and televisions. We're all talking about that level of hope that some data will get cheaper, some believe that, and some like me don't believe that much. But in the mutual world of mobile phones and televisions, something quite substantial has happened over the last few years, which I would like to draw your attention to and what I would like to remind you of. If there has been a huge increase in the user comfort of these devices in the computer world and in the mobile phone world, they are intuitive, they can be controlled by anyone, and a huge amount of previously unimaginable services can be used through these machines and almost everyone does it every day, so on the one hand, there has been huge technological progress in the television world, but on the other hand, a relatively significant reduction in user comfort. I don't know if any of you have done that banal thing in recent years that you've tuned your own TVs based on the years you bought it, what software equipment it's equipped with, in connection with the first wave of digitalization. Mr Pilný here at the last reading, in the last reading, pointed out not only to the economic plane that for a part of the Czech population, this matter may become unbearable economically, but also possibly on the user plane. We are getting more and more into a situation where for a number of older citizens of our country it can stop being economically viable not only to buy new machines or new set-top boxes, but necessarily because they are unable to treat these devices and basically to realize the service without any external professional assistance at all in their home, as if we are forcing the situation when receiving television channels and television signals becomes a very complicated situation. With various devices, when you unpack those digital packages, how many times you find that even a person who is quite skilled in the mobile sphere is sometimes unable to tune a whole range of channels without expert remote help from various providers of this service. I would not like to make an argument on the basis of the only argument expressed by the Minister here today, and that is the argument about spectral efficiency - that was the only argument that has been made here, that is, please, the technical term from radio communication, I will not explain what it describes, you can look at the Internet via Googl data, in which units this physical quantity is measured - so if the only argument is spectral efficiency, so that on the basis of the spectral efficiency, we do not, for example, cause blackout for a generation of seniors on television in a few years, because they will not have the money to do it, they will not be able to tune any program without external help at all, including the public service. I think we're gambling with a world that we already know very little about as those who may be able to afford more things than our old citizens. I want to point that out. In the last few days, I have discussed with a number of people who consider today's form of terrestrial broadcasting to be a kind of x-year-long certainty that they will no longer have to invest, and we are inventing another, new wave of necessary investment for them. We haven't heard any answers to why this is necessary. And I want to ask you again, is this just because of the spectral efficiency? And how are you gonna explain that argument with spectral efficiency to the elderly in the country when you get them to buy the set-top box and the TV, Minister?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u37	I thank Mr Martin Novotný. Before we go any further, from 18 o'clock to the end of the day, Mrs Jana Lorencová apologizes, which I see here all the time. We will continue with Mr Michal Kučera's speech. We are still in the general debate. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u38	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, let me draw your attention to the amendment tabled by my colleague Mrs Pekarová Adamová, who is duly excused today, so I would like to present this amendment to her. The purpose of this amendment is to anchor the legal obligation according to which Czech Television, as a public media, would broadcast cinematographic works of foreign production, films and series of foreign production created for television broadcasting, which are accompanied by dubbing, at the same time in the original version with subtitles in Czech language. The proposal gives the viewer the option of choosing a choice, which he chooses on his receiver, with which audio accompaniment he will watch the program. I would like to point out that the dual broadcast was offered by Czech Television until 2003. The subsequent increase in the quality of the sound provided led to a reduction in dual transmission. Due to the limited width of the terrestrial frequency band through which the signal of Czech television is distributed, dual broadcasts are now unavailable, even after switching from analogue to digital broadcasting, which has been associated with more efficient use of the frequency spectrum due to compression. Even so, there is currently multiplex 1, so called. a public multiplex, fully used, and so there is no room for a dual broadcast today. The amendment to the Electronic Communications Act regulates the transition to a new form of DVB-T2 broadcasting. This is once again linked to the saving of the frequency spectrum, which opens up the space to reintroduce dual broadcasts. For this reason, the proposal is presented in this very amendment. The change only affects Czech TV, not private companies. We believe that Czech television as a public media should also fill its public service by providing dual broadcasts, which helps to improve the audience's linguistic amenities. It is far below the European average in our country. For example, according to a study of the Eurobarometer, only 11 percent of Čech agree, which ranks the Czech Republic on the bottom partitions along with other countries that have a strong tradition of dubbing. My colleague consulted a number of experts on the amendment. According to representatives of Czech Radio Communications, the transition to DVB-T2 will be technically possible to provide dual broadcasts. Czech television also does not resist dual broadcasting in principle, and it already offers it to satellite viewers to a limited extent today. However, the aim of the proposal is to make this possibility available to viewers who receive free terrestrial broadcasting, which is about 60 percent of households. The proposal was also consulted in advance with the Ministry of Industry and Trade and also with the Ministry of Culture. The resulting form of the amendment is a compromise solution which seeks to accommodate all comments. At the same time, I would also like to enter into a detailed debate where I will apply to my colleague Adamová's amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u39	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. This has been the last one entered in the general debate so far. I'm asking who else is reporting in the debate. Minister of Industry and Trade Jiří Havlíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u40	Thank you. Mr President, I do not want to prolong the debate too much with regard to the advanced hour, but I think it is important that I say some things again here. I've already responded here to some reservations during the first reading. And by your means, Mr President, to Mr Novotný. He told me here that I only spoke about the spectrally more effective one. I didn't want to extend my opening word too much, because second reading, I suppose, is for amendments to be made to defend themselves. I think, in terms of the Minister's opening words, first reading was enough. However, I think that the debate on the transition to new digital television has been so extensive here that it is worth commenting on in more detail. I mean, it's a forced step. It's a forced step from the outside, which neither this government nor the Ministry of Industry and Trade invented, and I suppose it wasn't made up by operators. The European Union has already decided in 2012 to allocate the 1200 MHz band package to mobile data services, including the 700 MHz television band. In 2015, the International Telecommunications Union decided to allocate the 700 MHz television band for mobile data services. The Council and the European Parliament are currently discussing decisions on the use of this zone, passed first reading in March, and it can be assumed that it will be approved at European Parliament level by the end of the first half of this year. What does the government do? In 2015, the Government of the Czech Republic adopted a radio spectrum management strategy. We have confirmed our commitment to international agreements. In 2016, the government approved a strategy for the development of digital terrestrial broadcasting, which, in connection with the release of the 700 MHz band, regulates how the transition from the current terrestrial broadcasting to the new one will take place. What are the risks if we don't release the 700 MHz band? I can't even imagine it in person. Firstly, the Czech Republic will not be seen as a trusted partner either at European level or at international level. Coordination must take place between States with regard to the release of the zone. That's a forced step, and it has to happen. It's a technical matter. If we do not proceed in this way, if we do not release the 700 MHz band, should we take action on possible arbitrations, international arbitrations from neighbouring countries? I don't think so. With regard to citizens and households, 60 percent of households currently use this single free television platform, so-called DVB-T. If we release the 700 MHz band, this means a loss of 30 percent of television frequencies, with, of course, a direct impact on citizens in certain regions. I'll tell you what regions they are: they are southern Bohemia, it is the Pilsen Region, they are some border areas. Thus, in these areas, if we were to release the 700 MHz band and not ensure a switch to another form of free digital terrestrial broadcasting, these citizens would lose that possibility. What does that mean? It means reducing competition. Undoubtedly, this means a reduction in competition. These citizens will only have the option of satellite TV, cable TV or so-called. IPTV. Competition will be reduced between these platforms. What does the reduction in competition lead to? The reduction in competition leads to the closure of free television broadcasting and, of course, this will enable the prices of the current paid broadcast to be increased. I don't mean to prophesy, but I'm sure there is. What the government, the Ministry of Industry and Trade are proposing is a standard and responsible procedure. I would like to say that we are making the prerequisites for the process, a step that is forced from the outside, to be successful and, in particular - and I would like to underline this - socially sensitively. We create enough space about four years for citizens to adapt to these changes if you want them to exchange their television during that period, which will support the new DVB-T2 format or buy the respective set-top box. Set top box is a matter of several hundred crowns. Over the course of four years, it is possible to purchase it without any major financial impact. As for Mr Benda, by your means, Mr Vice-President, I would like to say one thing to you. You're leaning just like Mr....
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u41	I ask the House for peace.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u42	...like President Pilný for some legal analysis. I haven't seen this legal analysis. I cannot take any position on it because the Ministry of Industry and Trade does not have it. If this is the legal analysis that President Pilný referred to at the meeting of the Committee on Economic Affairs on 19 April, where this has been operated on in quotation marks, I asked that this analysis be officially submitted to us as the Ministry so that we could take a relevant legal position on it. I can believe there's such an analysis, but I don't officially have it. You want me to respond to some conclusions from this analysis. What should I react to? I didn't get any such analysis when I got it, so the Ministry, his legislation, will assess it, and we can take a stand on it. At this point, I really cannot take any such position responsibly. I could talk even further. Of course, it is important for the mobile services market to move, not only the Ministry of Industry and Trade, but also for the mentioned regulator, the Czech Telecommunications Authority, and the Office for the Protection of Competition, who are in charge of competition and investigating possible abuse of dominant position or conduct in concert and so on. Let me briefly comment on the proposed possibility for sanctions to be imposed on turnover percentages in the future. I would like to point out that this view has been expressed here that, at this point in time, the turnover sanctions are only allowed for a regulator in one country. They are two countries, not only Slovakia, our neighbor, but also France. In Slovakia, percentage of turnover was introduced from 1 January 2016. I think the competition between operators in Slovakia works perfectly. As we verified the information, there was no restriction on the investments of these operators. Nobody's gone bankrupt and profits from it to customers. So if someone claims that the sanctions of a percentage of turnover can be liquidation, I say, if I act in accordance with the law, I will behave according to all the rules, no penalty for me can be liquidation, whether it's 10 million, or whether it's a percentage of turnover. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u43	I thank the Minister of Industry and Trade for his speech. In the general debate, Mr Ivan Pilný, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I've never fucked with the fact that we have to release the 700 megahertz frequency. I just want to say one thing, and I don't know if the Minister is aware that there are alternative scenarios to how to deal with television broadcasting. Firstly, restrictions that are relevant for broadcasting on frequencies that are not at risk can be invested there. TV broadcasters will also have to invest in the T2 switch. This will mostly be covered by public support. There's never been any government analysis of how much it would cost to invest on the frequencies on which it is broadcast, which is one of the alternative scenarios that are there. We have one frequency band on which only VHF transmits. This can be used for television broadcasting. Again, this script has never been discussed in the government. Then it was said here that the fact that people would have to exchange TVs is not a major change. So I absolutely don't understand why this isn't a major change if they have to pay for it, and it's mainly about people who don't trade TVs at all on the basis of some natural change, but when they're just wasted, so there's probably a fundamental change going on. As far as the fines are concerned, I had the Slovak Telecommunications Authority check directly how they were handling the fines. All the fines granted there during the period of validity of the law they have there were banal except for one single fine, which was EUR 100,000, otherwise no such fine was granted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u45	I thank Mr Pilný. Before I give the floor to my colleague Benda, I will also read the apologies received by the President of the House, Mrs Jitka Chalánková and Mr Tomio Okamura from 18.30 to 19.00. Now, with a factual remark, my colleague, Marek Benda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u46	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will try briefly - if Mr Pilný does not disturb the Minister, but I want to respond to the Minister - to what has been said here by Minister ad one on the question of sanctions. Of course, it is true to say that sanctions are not annihilation if one behaves well. But we have the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court that even if a person behaves badly, sanctions must not be liquidated. So let's not argue that if he's doing well, sanctions aren't liquidation. We need to know and watch what's going on in the legal order. Second thing. I didn't say that the Ministry was supposed to take a position on some legal analysis that I felt if it was on the Economic Committee that the Ministry had it at its disposal, I would, of course, provide it. I asked the Minister what would happen if certain parts of the law that promise something to existing players on the market prove incompatible with European Union law. I asked if we were in a situation where they would start to sue us and judge us with Czech or international arbitration because we promised them something by law, and then we found that we were unable to do so from the point of view of European Union regulations. Because that is what my proposals are going to do, when I say, let us postpone the effectiveness of these parts until it is clear that they are compatible with the law of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u47	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Mr Martin Novotný's point of fact is now still being made. We are still in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u48	A real comment will take the form of a question for the Minister. The MP has the right to be a layman in the field of radio communication, which is why I want to ask. At a time when you were talking about limits that would mean for some regions of the Czech Republic in connection with the consequences of the release of the band, I want to ask simply the lay language. Are the limits given by the physical parameters of the frequencies that would be available or by the existing form of radiocommunication infrastructure in which it would possibly have to be invested to overcome the limits? If the second question is true, then the answer is simple. Then we transfer investment to citizens, and compared to two variants, I am not satisfied with your answer. If these are the physical parameters of the belt, you'd probably be right. But I'd like a clear answer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u49	I thank Mr Martin Novotný. This has been the last one entered in the general debate so far. I'm asking if anyone is reporting for a general debate. This is not the case, I am ending the general debate. I ask about the final words after the general debate. Is there interest, Mr rapporteur, Minister? It's not like that. Because I haven't been running this point all this time, I'm asking if there's any proposal we should vote on. It's not. So we can continue with the debate in detail. Mr Ivan Adamec is the first Member to enter into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, colleagues, I would like to apply to the amendments to the press 1053. It is House document 6272, it is a matter of legislative clarification, as I have spoken here. It is the establishment of transition networks, how it will work, and then it is to what circuits of objects holders of existing allocations the corresponding individual permissions are to be allocated to. I would also like to apply to the amendment to the same press and it is House document 6294. It's a matter of contractual fines. I must say that what I heard here did not discourage me from filing an amendment. By the way, just to be clear, the fines that are listed there by specific amounts are increasing, but the percentage of turnover is being removed. I don't think two states in Europe are about ten percent of the states. I think it can work quite differently, and the experience shows that it may not be necessary if the Czech Telecommunications Authority acts as it should. My opinion is that if everything works, the fines move in the values that fell here, and then, when it gets hard and it starts fighting competitively, it can be completely different, and the liquidation fines just... I'm not saying that because I'm defending the operators, by no means, I also have my personal experience, but I don't think the fine is supposed to be liquidation, and the percentages of turnover can be liquidation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u51	I thank Mr Ivan Adamc. Now, Mr Petr Kudela, in a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u52	Hello. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen of the Ministers, I come with a sheet. I always tell everyone that the House is dating a sheet, it's a token of my homework. We have spoken here, Mr Pilný, about the lack of competition in the provision of mobile operators services. We have been talking here about the need or desire for the use of the future free 700 MHz band. In the area I will talk about, there is a desire for entry into someone's restricted zone and the possibility of using it. And, as we know, the forbidden attracts. I propose that in the law on electronic communications that we are currently discussing, we allow the Czech Telecommunications Authority to allocate a frequency band to the Czech Radio so that it can broadcast its programs digitally throughout the Czech Republic. I quote from the Czech Radio Act. It is § 3 para. 1. Czech Radio fills the public service in the field of radio broadcasting in particular by... and in letters. (d) operates terrestrial digital broadcasting in such a way as to ensure the fulfilment of public service tasks in the field of radio broadcasting corresponding to the state of development of broadcasting technologies and services, etc. But the Czech Telecommunications Authority is not authorized to assign such frequencies to the Czech Radio. In the state administration, what is forbidden is not valid, it is permitted. On the contrary. State authorities can only do what the laws are allowed or imposed on them. On that point, I tabled an amendment in House document number 6289, which I hereby declare, and I ask that it be voted on at third reading. Annual report of the Czech Radio - I will justify my proposal - annual report of the Czech Radio for 2015 which we approved 15. 9. 2016, and the annual reports for 2014, 2013 and 2012, which we approved at this House, talk about which special station Český rozhlas broadcasts, as the program produces and broadcasts. It's the Czech Radio Radio Junior, it's a broadcast for children and their parents, the Czech Radio Wave, or as it's read, I don't know. One of his priorities was monitoring, commenting on social events, etc. Czech Radio D-dur, classical music, Czech Radio Jazz. These programs have been distributed through all forms of television broadcasting, I don't know which one of you listens to the radio over the TV screen, and through the T-DAB system. Then the Czech Radio Sport and Czech Radio Radio Retro is broadcast. And these programs are only in the T-DAB network. It looks like everything is OK, but the T-DAB is spread around Prague and the nearest neighborhood. I'm from Ostrava, and I want to watch all these programs I've named here in Ostrava. I pay, like many of you, I believe we all pay, concession fees, and we want to have the same rights as the citizens here in Prague and the nearest neighborhood. Other radio stations are also interested in entering the digital broadcasting system in addition to the Czech Radio. This is what the Czech Radio says in the annual report, how great it would be if it could broadcast throughout the Czech Republic. So the approval of my amendment will bring not only the content of the Czech Radio, but also other radio stations, throughout the Czech Republic, and not only around here..... (?) As far as television sets are concerned, if I go back to the original proposal that we are discussing, I think that before we approve this amendment, the possibility of receiving through the T2 network will have a good 15 or maybe 20 percent of the households, and over the three years, the vast majority will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u53	I thank Mr Petr Kudel, Mr Leo Luzar, in a detailed debate. A colleague, Marek Benda, will be ready. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u54	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, Minister, I will take this very briefly now. I want to sign up for two amendments that are in the system, namely 6265 and 6135. I have already justified these amendments in the general debate, and they are also placed in the system with justification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u55	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Now, then, Mr Marek Benda in a detailed debate, Mr Michal Kučera will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u56	Mr Vice-President, Minister, Mr rapporteur, I will just apply quickly to proposals already put into the system: under the House press 6280 - it is a proposal that throws the whole digitization out of this bill, and that it would not be dealt with until the beginning of the next parliamentary term. [[by document]] 6279 - I have them in reverse, for which I apologize, but I think it will be more logical if we vote in this regime. 6279 postpones the effectiveness of the parts relating to digitisation, and especially those which promise something to players on the market, at the moment when the European Commission's decision on notification is made. And 6278 says a little different thesis, but I think it's also necessary, and that the licenses that will subsequently be will be auctioned, respectively. they have competed in the selection procedure in the normal manner as is the case in other cases and are not allocated in this way as a preferential system. I shall pass on to the rapporteur 6278.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u57	I thank Mr Marek Benda. Now, Mr Michal Kučera, a colleague of Mr Kolovratník, will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u58	Hello, and thank you for the floor. Allow me to sign up for the amendment, which is included in the system under number 6284 and which I duly justified in the general debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u59	I thank Mr Michal Kučer. Mr Martin Kolovratník now. Come, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u60	Thank you for the floor. First of all, I want to apologize to the minister, the translator. I was active in this law on the floor of the Economic Committee, and I was planning to do so today in the debate, but unfortunately for the reasons of other negotiations and changes to the programme, I did not have the opportunity. I promise that, once again, on the Economic Committee and during the third reading, I will express my arguments in support of DVB-T2 in particular. At this point in the detailed debate, therefore, only what is in charge of my Rules of Procedure. I am reporting for my amendment under number 6290 and in a short comment I will say that I have this proposal with my colleagues from the MIT and also professionally with Czech radiocommunications. The primary reason for submitting my proposal is to better set and justify the allocation of individual radio frequency allocations precisely for DVB-T2, and not for reference to § 22a para. 4 of the Electronic Communications Act, as originally proposed by the Government amendment. So I see it more as a technical refinement of individual formulas within the law. It is a proposal that does not, in fact or in substance, make any structural or fundamental changes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-26-ps2013-056-08-016-292.u61	I thank Mr Martin Kolovratník and ask who else in the detailed debate. I don't see anyone, I'm ending the debate in detail. I'm asking if there's any interest in final words. Mr. Secretary? There's no interest. The rapporteur? He's also not interested in the final word. There was no proposal to vote after a detailed debate at second reading, so I can end the second reading of this proposal. We have 18.51 and I'm asking the Minister if he's interested. [[Of a fat content,]] He's not interested? He's interested. All right. In that case, I'll open point 172 because I've finished point 292.
