ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u1	285. Information of the Government on the procedure in the case of disadvantageous privatisation of OKD We interrupted the debate on this point on 19 January at the 54th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, and the general debate was interrupted. I ask that a member of the Government and the rapporteur of this item, Mr Marek Černoch, take the position at the rapporteur's table. We will therefore continue the interrupted general debate. His performance on 19. 1. Ms Hana Aulická Jírovcová, who I ask to take the floor if necessary, has not finished. But the MP is not interested. Mrs Olga Havlová also signed up. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a lot has been said about OKD here, whether it was about estimates and sales, and not even for a tenth of the amount it was sold, that it was a nice bonus to sell in the form of flats, recreation centres and clinics. And that is why I would stop by the apartments whose privatization has damaged many of the people in our region. Today and every day, our citizens turn to me and I raise a few questions that are constantly repeated and can be divided into questions for individual ministers. For example, the Minister of Justice. How many courts in Moravian-Silesian region were tenants versus RPG at district and regional level and what is the final score in individual districts and regions? Did any tenants ever win on the edge? Is there independent and fair justice in our country? To the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. What total amount is subsidized by RPG apartments social housing benefits? To the Minister of Finance. The competition authority officially states that the monopoly position on the market is when the entity owns 40 per cent. In Havířov RPG has 55 percent of the apartment market according to RPG material. How is it that the control of the Financial Administration, which ended around May 2015, did not assess this as a monopoly position on the housing market? [[16.30 hours]] And a question that I would point to both the Prime Minister and the entire government: How is it possible that nothing happens when OKD's privatization contract meant that tenants had a pre-emptive right to flats and these were sold to a third party without being offered priority to tenants? I don't want to go into any more details and other questions. But the fact is, these aren't just for thought. These facts need to be examined and dealt with. I keep hearing that this is only a Moravian-Silesian region. Yes, but only in terms of employment. The state lost the money for selling the state enterprise, and all citizens lost it. What is much worse, though, is that it seems that there is no political will to poke into a wasp's nest. Today's agenda point is perhaps the last chance for cheated citizens and the last hope for justice. So I ask you to consider this before you raise your hand to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u3	Thank you, ma'am. Now to check the votes. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u4	Therefore, Mr Vice-President, dear colleagues, I have succeeded, I do not know how this is possible, I voted no, but to achieve the result of the vote serial number 276, very closely observed that it appeared at the high stage, which I have been alerted to by one of my fellow Members for the ANO movement. So what I'd like to say is that I really pressed even for the 276 serial vote. And so for the first time, technically, this has happened to me in my entire career at all, so I would like it to be noted that I do not want to question the outcome of the vote. Thank you, Mr. Vice-President.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u5	Thank you, ma'am, for recording her notice. Before I give the floor to Mrs Lorencová, Mr Štětina apologizes from 19 o'clock for personal reasons, Mr Petr Adam from 16.30 to 19 for personal reasons, Mr Pavel Šrámek from 16.15 for personal reasons and Mr Vojtěch Adam apologizes from 17 o'clock for medical reasons. Thank you. And now Mrs Jana Lorencová has the floor. Please, madam. [[Screams from the left side of the hall: There's no one from the government, we can't go on, we need a minister. A commotion in the hall.]] Well, we're missing any member of the government here. [[The government has fallen.]] The government didn't fall, it's just not here. [[Pavel Bělobrádek is coming to the hall.]] And, uh, one of the government officials is here. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u6	Mr President, colleagues, any time recently when I have to comment on the privatisation of the Ostrava Karvin mines, a former state enterprise, I am getting into such a strange state of mind when I believe that everything has already been said on this subject, indeed, perhaps for some of you it must be boring in its own way. On the other hand, on the other hand, I think it is strange that the committee of inquiry, the parliamentary committee of inquiry, has not been set up until now, precisely in order to investigate thoroughly and thoroughly how the privatisation of the whole OKD took place. At the very beginning, one shaft was inserted as a pledge to the bank, one mine, and the money received was used in this way to privatize the entire OKD. In accordance with the so-called privatization law, this could have happened. That's just the way it was. Part of the miners lost their jobs, their families often lost their livelihood for some time. Of course, they found jobs, mostly found jobs. I saw with my own eyes the last carts exported from the Ostrava shafts, which were gradually closed. I saw a vampire who really shed tears on his cheeks. They had no idea what was going to happen. In Ostrava, so-called privatization advisors appeared and recommended some shafts not to blind or preserve, but recommended closing them definitively, and so at the depth of many hundred meters the mining towers ended, there ended the mining trolleys, tracks and many other things that would otherwise have served many years to continue mining in those shafts. There it was found that supplies remained in them for several decades. But they'll never be mined there again - or ever. If I never use the word, then think of it as a matter of order in dozens, maybe hundreds of years will not benefit from it. Unlike other countries where the mines have been gradually preserved, such as Germany, Belgium and other countries, they can open them at any time and continue where the mines were preserved some time ago. In accordance with the laws in force at the time, the privatisation project envisaged the intention to mine coal, so that only what was directly related to coal mining should be privatised. The former state enterprise OKD became a joint-stock company, at that time with the majority participation of the state. And many times, the state's way of losing a decisive portion of that property has been described, how the decisive part of its assets has been lost. The consequences were also described. No one has ever thought that, as if by just a gift, by the way, the state would throw a number of companies to new so-called owners, such as OKD, at least 5,000 hectares of land, more than 2,000 non-residential premises, all the recreational and rehabilitation facilities that OKD owned, and much more property. It sounds really incredible, but this property has never been valued. And I personally believe that only then did the award of OKD flats occur, that even those were never really appreciated, that they were additionally... the price for them, the 40 declared thousands per apartment, that it wasn't even true, that they were only subsequently implanted into the total sum that the state won for OKD. If we put together what I have just listed, what my colleague Josef Hájek once discussed in more detail here, if we put it together, then maybe only this property is worth as much as the amount that the state has actually earned for the entire OKD. There's a lot to talk about on this subject. It was in the case of the 44,000, originally 48,000 flats, the state apartments for which the state enterprise OKD had the right of management. It was the same as in the NHKG, as in Vítkovice and some other state enterprises. So those companies that were able to deal with it by offering them to their people who lived in them, they were able to deal with it in a decent way. Not OKD. It's so humiliating for these people, it's actually 25 years of life in uncertainty for them. [[16.40 hours]] Some ten years ago, perhaps more, I was visited by a group of people who lived in those apartments who were elected by thousands of their residents to represent them. I learned then how new owners - so called. Owners, I still do not regard them as real owners - they can handle them. The people who live there, how they treat them, how they treat them. When one of the couples died, he was immediately visited by a representative of the successor company, whatever her name was, by an RPG, or whatever, and he submitted a new lease to the survivor for signature. Even though the married couple or the whole family lived there for many years, he got a lease, the one who stayed there for one year. That's one small part of what those people were going through. Five to ten thousand apartments are already available today because people are running away from the apartments. They also flee because their rent is raised in an unchristian way. There are apartments where one or two people live, and there are seven eight thousand regular rents, which is really unbearable for pensioners. They're mostly people of retirement age. I'd like to point out one more thing. After privatization of OKD, not only the unpunished culprits of the state in which OKD is now found, but even unnamed. Since the early 1990's, there have been huge problems like snowballs just because we never named the basis of what actually happened. It was never named that, in the case of OKD flats in particular, there was fraud, readable, unambiguous, undisputable. The apartments, 99 percent of the people had state decrees on them. From different maybe other businesses, others had them replaced as cooperative apartments. And what happened here is that the apartments were just renamed service apartments. Service apartment has rules. When you come to work at a company, they give you the keys, and when you're done after two years, after five, you give back the keys. I say that in a simple way, of course. But we all know how it works for so-called. Service apartments. You will not find 44,000 state apartments in the privatisation project. That's where you'll find 44,000 service apartments! I appeal to you, colleagues, I say again, a lot has already been said here, and I think that each of us has already had the opportunity, if he was interested, to get to the bottom of the issue. And it's really, really painful. And I appeal to you to approve the motion for a resolution, which will be presented by fellow Member Josef Hájek. I know that my idea of exempting at least the housing fund from the stock company's assets is probably part of the dream world that we'll probably find it hard to see. However, please do not give up and try to find a way, as far as possible, to at least partially correct the situation in which we are with this unfortunate privatization, which I can actually call with a clear conscience in broad daylight thieving, to at least partially remedy the situation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u7	Thank you, Mrs Jana Lorencová. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will keep my factual remarks on the course of the debate as a comment on the detailed debate and, in general, I will focus on the motion for a resolution that I want to make to you. But let me quote one: "In 2004 OKD was taken over by the new owner. OKD has become a modern and qualified company." This is a quote from today's OKD website. This mockery to all, who is still on the OKD website today, is to heaven calling for ridicule to all of us. It's just that no one here in this country can accept what happened to OKD since 2004. And that's memento for the whole discussion of this matter. No matter what we say with these microphones, someone still thinks that OKD is an efficient and modern-controlled company. He's just a little unlucky. The bad luck may have caused it to be more visible that it's big. Or that the employees are quite consolidated and are bound by some mining honor and are fighting for their interests. I don't know. But it was probably a little bad luck that OKD was carrying. So I have no illusions that something will change significantly. So perhaps only open things up to say to ourselves: we did everything we could to avoid our future followers having to ask us why you didn't give it up and why you didn't look for answers to the questions that were already, that means today, clear. The current state of OKD is called, I dare say, a two-headed procedure. On the one hand, the classic board of the company that is engaged in economic activity, from the other, the trustee, plus the creditor committee, who wants to pull the funds out of this company to plug the hole, I don't know, the term may not be appropriate, but to cover the losses that this company has caused since 2004. The current situation is that the company records two candidates for entry into OKD. Unfortunately, both of these interested parties go around this company with a sense of perhaps slightly acquired property. I don't want to hurt them. I don't want to hurt them, but when a businessman enters a business that's in liquidation, he expects to make money off of it. It doesn't make it any charitable or charitable purpose, especially if it's the billions of crowns he'd have to put into that business. It doesn't do it from long-term development either, it expects, because we are constantly convinced here that coal in this form of conquest, as it is presented here, is unperspective. He's doing it because he's expecting a profit. And here's the question of who he's expecting his earnings to be. The coal? Coal prices aren't promising in that perspective. The work of miners? I think we can agree that there's no more money to be made on them. The property that's there? Hardly. Perhaps on future supplies that are still undiscovered and in the order of billions. But it requires moving on the market again the price of coal. So there's only one state left where an investor can feed if I use that term. And both companies, already known from public sources, expressed their willingness to help OKD, help with large quotation marks, but only with the help of the state. This means that the liquidation of this company will take the state on its back. [[16.50 hours]] I am now returning to the state's current state of affairs in the case of OKD, to which the government's information points. Actually, there's no one to give us that information. The responsible minister is no longer responsible, Prime Minister, we will probably recognise that he does not have the necessary information and knowledge to get this information so quickly. At least that's what he's going to say, we have to say to ourselves that at least he's going to say that he couldn't get this information and he has to rely on ministry officials. Here, of course, we have to ask how the responsible officials of the Ministry are working on the problem of OKD, when we already know from public sources that the main task for a possible new minister will be to solve OKD. I fear that we will not get a proper solution for ruling the current government coalition, and it will perhaps be a topic for the new government that emerged from the elections. Yet there are several things in the running at once. The first are the steps of the new management of the company, filing a criminal report on the right and left, on the parent company NWR, which is notabene also in liquidation, or the healing of the financial will be very difficult, here on the former predecessor, i.e. The board of directors and others who have paid dividends in hundreds of millions without having funds, and have indebted their own company and carried out operations worthy of operations - I do not want to use the expression discussed at the previous point. This unfortunate situation has forced us, members of the KSČM, to propose a resolution which we would very much like to put forward to this House, and we would very much like to ask you to approve it. I know that there is a resolution made by Mr Hájek as a resolution, because he is a government MP, I suppose, a government majority in this Parliament. However, I will return to his resolution in the context of a detailed debate and give him the opportunity to present it in a commentary. We are proposing three things in our resolution. The first may be the preamble, perhaps a statement that I am quick to quote here: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic notes that the Czech Republic has reached a political decision contrary to the views of the general professional public and the academic community in the field of raw materials and energy, and the absence of a clear long-term raw material and energy concept into a number of problems which have enhanced the problematic privatisation of the right to acquire and trade in our national wealth, raw materials, including black and brown coal. This is merely what led these businesses to the situation they are in today between 1990 and 2000. And it's not just OKD, I want to point that out. This concerns tens and hundreds of businesses throughout the Republic. Somewhere smaller, somewhere larger these businesses, but all have the same problems associated with the time of wild privatization. What is important to us, and I will not delay the comment on this matter, is point two of the proposed resolution, and that we demand the government of the Czech Republic to ensure... I'm warning you, we're not saving. It's not a job for the government. We demand. Because the government has the executive authority and can impose. We would only like the government to do so, and we are merely offering it questions that we would like it to consider, if any. I did. Some of the questions I'm going to read to you very quickly, have already been fulfilled by the government, i.e. an imaginary ticking off of this point is done, because it itself perceives the need for some points, and I don't want to say that it would simply not want or intentionally do in this matter. He's doing it. That is why we want the government to think about the future of this sector in part two, which has points (a) to (i). (a) We require the government to ensure the possibility of mining all kinds of coal as irreplaceable mineral wealth of the Czech Republic today and in the future. I believe that the government will do so and that this is no problem at all. b) It ensured the protection of deposits reserved for the mineral of the Czech Republic against their irreparable impairment in the event of any changes in ownership relationships or termination of business. This point is aimed at those efforts to enter a strategic partner into OKD and may be sucked into the state budget in the context of solving problems of OKD. (c) Legality and fulfilment of all obligations entered into during privatisation and resulting from laws and regulations relating to the protection of health, nature, reclamation of landscape and employment. So many of the privatisation contracts mentioned here, which stood at the beginning of this problem, also contain the requirements which the company was to fulfil. There was a responsible ministry here to control and demand that these privatization promises be fulfilled. This is a matter of government that should look at the officials who did, and possibly. they neglected these matters. It's no big deal, and I believe that the responsible government has done this a long time ago. (d) Efficient use of state ownership and mining rights to previously unclaimed or planned mining sites, where strategic stocks of mineral resources can be dealt with not only by employment, but especially by our energy independence in the order of decades. That's what I'm talking about. There are tens of billions of crowns of coal (?) which now fall under the right to acquire OKD. These bearings are still unopened. They remain as strategic supplies, and maybe these are the things that are being discussed by the privatizers who want to enter the OKD. Here, the government should clearly state how these bearings will be handled, whether they will allow extraction or not, whether they will be held as strategic raw materials. And I think that here too, at this point, the government is already quite certain of its decision, and I do not believe that it would no longer consider it. (e) The future of workers in health-exploiting professions to an extent that prevents their possible further employment by means of an accelerated amendment to the pension law in order to allow for an earlier retirement for all employees concerned in accordance with international standards defining heavy work. Here I am also breaking into the upcoming laws of the Minister, which concern this problem. Of course, it's a premeditated thing. But I believe that you, colleagues, will support me here, too, because I think the miners deserve this for their work. And it's not just miners, it's all hardworking, who - and let's face it - hardly live to be 65 years in the profession they do. That's a pretty imaginary value, 65 years old. (f) Urgent and effective measures which will lead to a long-term differentiated distribution of the decline in mining in OKD under the guidance and control of the State so as not to prevent the acquisition of existing stocks of coal, non-refundable disposal of unclaimed mining works. It has already been said here, and I think that even this government may consider it partly fulfilled by its participation through its bodies in the liquidation of OKD, by its influence within the ministries. It is only about making this clear as an interest and keeping an eye on these matters, which we point out that it is necessary to do so. (g) Using the funds from the auction of emission allowances to address the issue of Czech energy. It's a general point. I think that even on this point I will find support for you here, because it is one of the objectives of precisely why emission allowances have been issued. In points (h) and (i) this is a re-evaluation of the Government's resolution, whether number 828, or 405 of 2015 or 2016. Resolution 828 has already been reviewed by the government; this resolution is already zero. Point (i) is still being dealt with, looking for a match between partners, government, regions, and this issue is, let's say, a little bit more complicated. Nevertheless, the government is already taking these steps, and therefore I do not see why this text should not be approved by you in this resolution. [[17,00 hours]] As far as point 3 of our proposed resolution is concerned, it can be a little more controversial, because on this point we want to dive into the search for responsibility for what happened. In point 3, we ask the Government of the Czech Republic to instruct the competent executive authorities to clarify the activities which led to the property losses of the Czech State in the privatisation of OKD and, according to these authorities, to file a criminal complaint. That's what most of us are calling for, where we see the problem that it remains like a certain aftertaste on the floor that something happened. We all suspect it wasn't all kosher, but make a fat line and say forget it's a bit of a problem for all of us. At least that's what I think. To do this, some things need to be clarified. We have these points here at points A through E. A. Who decided and tasked a representative of the State in the institutions of undertakings to vote on the reduction of the capital in the OKD in favour of the National Property Fund, which resulted in a loss of the State's influence in society. We haven't been able to trace this data. Even the Prime Minister did not say in his extensive introductory words how this happened. He just mentioned it. But it is necessary to look for specific people behind everything, and what led them to do was vote and actually do what the government of Bohuslav Sobotka subsequently realized. We would really like to know who was in charge and who was in charge. B. Who decided and subsequently carried out the transfer of shares in OKD to municipalities in order to recover these shares over time, through the company in the suspicion that it acted against the interests of the State. Here's the key point where the state lost the majority. Someone, and the public sources here mention it in the signs of who was behind it, entrusted the company that bought the shares for Mr Bakala, even if it was hidden under other companies at the time, until it subsequently appeared, from the municipalities under the auspices of buying it back for the state, and bought it for this private investor and acquired this majority. Someone in here did it. And this person's name would be very interesting to find out. In my opinion, it can be found, but unfortunately, from the sources we have, this cannot be traced, because these are closed negotiations, the government's negotiations that decided, somebody brought it there, put the name of a particular person on the table. These are things that could be traced, which is why we would like the government to approach this. c. Who was responsible for not investigating suspicions of illegal financial operations in privatization of OKD. D. Who caused the time lags and inactions of the state when foreign investigative authorities and banks drew attention to illegal financial operations. This is one of the things that goes on with other governments that followed privatization. When it has come to the attention from abroad that something bad is happening in this situation in financial flows, whether it goes through Swiss and other accounts, our investigating authorities did not solve these matters. It's been postponed somewhere. Legal aid has not been sought, has not been requested. I confess that these are the things that go back to the Ministry of Justice and its activities as part of the control of these flows. It's big capital, hundreds of millions traveling between banks, until the bankers were alerted to the beatings and asked our party if we know about it, if it's some kind of illegal trade. And our authorities, which should ensure this, whether banking supervision, perhaps even the Czech National Bank, whether the institutions entrusted with the supervisory activities, simply did not do so. And we ask why. And perhaps even the government, if it had these answers, could say today: it happened because these people did not fulfil their duty. Maybe it's not a crime anymore, maybe it's been cut off. Yes, we may ask whose governments this has been suspended, but it would be a clear answer to these questions that we are asking. E. Who caused the failure to meet the legitimate expectations of tenants regarding the housing fund of OKD. Here we are constantly and rightly hearing that the OKD apartments were a big rip-off. When you read a privatization project or a privatisation contract, there are certain promises for tenants. Somewhere in certain steps that occurred, somebody didn't do what they were supposed to do. We don't want this man, if he was one particular person, to be punished for it. Maybe it was some sort of sub-alternary official who did something or didn't do something, but it's about what happened. Why? Why didn't the state in this case just do so many thousands of tenants in apartments? Though it was given in writing, it should have done so. And maybe it'll be the answer to one sentence: we haven't been able to trace it. But this too is the answer that the government has taken steps and tried to solve this problem and is looking for measures. But that is the second thing that I suppose will also mention a colleague of Hájek. In paragraph 4, the last point of our resolution, perhaps we will sharpen our blade a little bit more than that of this resolution. Point 4 reads: We require the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure the mapping of financial flows in the accounts of interested persons, relatives of these persons and companies associated with these persons, who participated directly or indirectly in the privatisation of OKD. This point is seemingly hard to meet, but it is based on the logic of the matter that if we suspect that this was done with the intention of enriching ourselves, then the enrichment must have occurred somewhere. Somewhere in financial accounts, somewhere in financial reports, tax statements, somewhere it just had to appear. And the state has authorities and officials who have the authority and the power to control these matters. Today, even with information systems and technologies, they are able to pair up data, they are able to put these matters together, and they are able to answer that question. If they are not technically able to give this answer, this will also satisfy this question. The government will simply say: we have exhausted all the possibilities to obtain these data, we have entrusted these authorities, and they do not have materials, technical means, or data that could explain this. But at least this will do the trick of not suspecting that any of this money is living somewhere, enjoying it and laughing at us as Mr. Bakala laughs at us and as we laugh at the OKD website, which says: In 2004 the new owner took over OKD. OKD has become a modern and qualified company. This is really a mockery. From this title, colleagues, I would like to ask you to support our resolution as it is. There is no controversial point, these are things that the government could seriously and clearly answer. The answers may enable us to understand what happened in the 1990s and early 2000, how this could have happened at all, and maybe learn to avoid repeating these errors. We owe this not only to OKD employees, we owe it to all those who experienced these problems throughout the Republic during the wild privatization and who still regret what this country has lost. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u9	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Another duly signed up for the general debate is Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u10	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues, I recently got my hands on an article by the editor Tomáš Plhon, editor of the Lidové noviny. A newspaper owned by Andrej Babiš. It is an article from 2015 describing the case of OKD flats, where he quoted among other things: "It is a business failure," reported Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka. Isn't that like Andy Kafuman? As it was enough to remind every other commentator on social media, it was Sobotka who ran the Ministry of Finance in 2004. That is where the privatization contract was baked, which gave the Uhlobaron the largest housing fund in the Czech Republic almost free of charge. Says the author of the article. But the same author of the article continues: The rights of the tenants were treated by Sobotka's office today by the famous article 7.6 (d), which reports: The tenants of the apartments have the right to the apartment in the case of sale on discounted terms. From someone who wrote this article and who was able to get to that privatization agreement, I would expect with absolute certainty that - first of all - he knew that Sobotka was signing a privatization agreement on a minority stake in OKD. Second, he knows that the apartments were already controlled by the then majority owner of OKD, at least since 1997, when the company was dominated by the local entrepreneur Pros due to the inability of the state and then the National Property Fund. Three. I would have expected that at that time, the privatization agreement could not have passed the apartments on to the uhlobaron, as it is written, and certainly not nearly free of charge. The state then received 4.1 billion for the minority share of OKD. Crowns. And although it is ridiculously little, Mr. Pros put together his over-half share at even less cost - a total of 3.9 billion. Crowns. He sold it to Koláček and Otav from Karbon Invest for this sum. So not to Bakal, but to Mr. Koláček and Otav of Carbon Invest! Including your little broth for the whole transaction! And it's estimated to be about 1.4 billion that went to some Cyprus company. Four. The state didn't sell, as I said, anything to Bakal, but still to Karbon Invest, if you will, to the then chief of the OKD Koláček. Carbon Invest was already a white horse for Bakal at the time, because he bought the whole OKD from Koláček and Otava within a few days after the privatization of Bakala. And I want to ask: weren't they the same miners and unions from OKD who then supported the sale of the minority share of OKD just to Mr. Koláček, their boss? According to information from the media at the time, this was the case. So I want to ask my colleague Hájek, who will perform after me and can answer what he was doing at the time, whether he supported or did not support the sale of a minority stake in OKD to his boss Koláček, because the then union bosses in OKD pushed the government very hard to realize the sale of a minority state package. The tenants' rights were treated by Sobotka's office today by the famous article 7.6 (d), and I will repeat again, which reports: The tenants of the apartments have the right to the apartment in case of sale on discounted terms. Yes, many today are grinning that this article is not enforceable. I think, of course, it's very pathetic and false of these people. It should be noted that the state then concluded probably thousands of privatization and privatisation contracts. At least dozens, if not hundreds of them concerned rights to housing funds, and neither one of them treated the rights of tenants of the housing fund, except for this exception - a contract for the purchase of a minority share of OKD. Today it seems to me that every general is after the battle. In conclusion, my esteemed colleagues, I would like to say that the privatisation of OKD shows the horrific way in which privatization, tunnelling and stealing took place in our country in the 1990s. And I'm sorry our state still hasn't caught the real culprits of this botched privatization. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u11	Thank you, Mr Seďa. With priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u12	Thank you for the floor. I'm not surprised. By means of you, I will respond to the words of my colleague Sedi. You dare to say how it is possible that no one has investigated the privatisation of OKD to this day. Is this your first day here, colleague? You're sitting in the House on your first day? Why didn't you do it over the years? How dare you say that a beautiful contract is signed with apartment tenants? Those people will call and say, "We are being threatened." When we try to ask for our rights, we are threatened. If we talk, if we try to do anything, you do not want us, you will see what happens to you. Those are the people who call directly or who come straight to the office and say, "I'm afraid to say my name because you know how it could turn out? Does this seem okay to you? It's not okay, colleague! It's not okay. The whole privatization isn't okay. She may have already been investigated, but nothing has been done to this day!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u13	Thank you. With a factual remark, Mr Antonín Seďa. Please, Ambassador, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u14	Thank you. Through you to a colleague. I don't know why you're putting something in my mouth that I didn't say. First, as far as I know, and as far as I can remember, the law enforcement agencies have been saving this case twice and stopped it twice. So I didn't say anything but that I'm sorry that the state wasn't able to touch the real culprits. For the next one. Yes, I made it clear that privatization, tunneling in the '90s, was horrible. That's what I said. So I don't know who I should be defending. I really don't know. So please, let's really listen to what we're saying here, and don't put something in my mouth that I didn't say!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u15	Thank you. And now the duly registered Member Josef Hájek. Excuse me, Mr. Ambassador, Mrs. Lorencová and her point of order. Please, madam, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I just want to ask your colleague Sedi. So it's actually totally okay? The contract between the State and the acquirer said that the citizen who lives in the apartment had priority rights. So, actually, what are we dealing with here? Why are we dealing with OKD apartments in that case? Or what is the result of the fact that it was written there? Did they get the apartments to buy? We didn't! They still don't have them! None of them have them!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u17	Mr Seďa and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador. After that, Mr. Petrů. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u18	Thank you. Your way to Mrs. Lorencová. I was here saying that thousands of contracts were signed, maybe hundreds concerning housing funds, and only this guaranteed existing tenants pre-emptive rights. And it wasn't a state that didn't keep this contract. And let's really criticize the government then, but, you know, I'm gonna give you one problem. In this state, the biggest problem is the enforcement of law. There's no law enforcement here!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u19	Thank you. Mr Petrů and his factual point, followed by the rapporteur's point of view.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u20	I must explain to my colleague, colleagues, that in the 1990s it was treated with flats in the Czech Republic in this way: State flats were transferred to municipalities, corporate flats had to be part of privatization projects and then a group of cooperatives, which, of course, remained as they were. So it needs to be realized that corporate flats had to be part of privatization projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u21	The rapporteur and his factual point. After that, Mrs Lorencová, with a factual point.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u22	By your means, Mr President, to Mr Seďa. Law enforcement. You're absolutely right. In order to enforce the law, we need to investigate. And I am asking you and I will ask you to answer if you will vote in favour of setting up a parliamentary committee of inquiry to investigate, because that can tell you what happened. If there's been a mistake, if there's been a violation of the law. That is what the parliamentary committee of inquiry is for. And I will be very happy if you vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u23	Thank you. Mrs Lorencová, with a factual point. Then, Mr Seďa, with a factual remark.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u24	Mr President, fellow Members, one sentence to Mr President, to Mr Seďa. I ask again: So everything is actually settled, because if there was guaranteed right to buy apartments, even it was at a bargain price, it was supposed to be sold, so actually these people bought the apartments? Or who offered them? How did you secure it, or the person who made the contract, how did you ensure that it was carried out? It didn't happen. The result of this whole matter lies in a single victory, and that is that the current foreign minister with impunity to name Bakala a gauner. So we all know, yes, Bakala's a crook. But in front of him, there's gotta be somebody else who played it all over nicely and gave it all to him. It's not just about Bakal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u25	Thank you. Mr Seďa and his point of order. After that, Mrs Havlová, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Your way. I agree with you. Nothing's okay. That's why we're here. That is why we are discussing the government's information on the process of disadvantageous privatisation. I said it here. And somebody didn't keep the contract. So let's ask who didn't keep the contract. And to my colleague: Yes, I will vote in favour of both the motion for a resolution and the establishment of a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u27	Thank you. Mrs Havlová and her two minutes. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u28	I can't keep my mouth shut, and I have to comment on the enforcement of that right. I have people coming to me who live in those apartments who have been sued. They tried a lot of money, and none of them won. I've already talked about this. So where's the enforcement of the law when there's a preemptive right in the contract?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u29	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Mr Josef Hájek, duly signed up for the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u30	[[He comes dressed in a mining uniform.]] Mr President, colleagues. At first, just a little thought, like my sense of hypocrisy. Look at these benches here. Half an hour ago, when Babiš was being discussed, there were benches full of talking people from the right. Now that we're discussing the fates of tens of thousands of miners and hundreds of thousands of tenants, they're totally in your arm. Totally in the arm! Where's the chairman of the Kalousek Club? Where's Mr. Fiala? Where is the strong voice of our region in Prague? The Red Billboard was there for a year, co-workers of Stanjura. Where are fellow folklores who have Christian love? Where are you? Backstage. Well, two isn't enough. That wouldn't even serve you a mass if you were two in church. It's the fourth time we've been here. For the fourth time, we are discussing a point of disadvantageous privatisation. The Prime Minister isn't here the second time. KSČM colleagues guaranteed me that they were discussing with him that he would be here. He's got us in his arm. I mean, in my arm. I wanted to put it differently, because the Prime Minister already uses the terms of me very nicely, because mining, our language was hard. My mining language is totally different. I've always got to transform this place into this parliamentary speech. If I could run how I feel, it'd be beeping in here, I'd get about 50 grand from this lady-- [[President Gazdík enters into the debate: I would turn you off, Mr. MP.]] You'd turn me off. So I'm trying to actually interpret it in some way into your intelligible speech. Anyway, the point is a disadvantageous privatization of OKD. My colleague, Mr Seďa, asked what I did in 2004. I dug coal, Mr. Ambassador. I dug coal, I was the manager. I used to dig coal through Mr President, Mr Seďa. [[Laughter and applause in the hall.]] I was a traffic manager. I was in charge of about a thousand people, and I was at work for 20 hours a day. I didn't have time for dickheads to figure out who was buying it. [[Fun in the hall.]] I had to -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u31	I'm sorry, Mr. Ambassador. I beg you to speak politely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u32	I had to follow the plan, and that's all I had time for. Indeed, we often did not have time to eat. But that doesn't belong here. I will really return to the subject of a disadvantageous privatisation. [[He speaks very loudly.]] There's a whole right side of the butter on the head here, except for the folklore. I was here at the time recalling the affidavit of my colleague Kalousek, who said through Mr President that he had sworn to say that he would never take money from Bakala or his party in his life. Six months later, he took 7.5 miles. ODS got 15 miles, 15 miles. in 2011. That's probably why they're not here today and why they're not discussing it. Then the miners will tell me. Why aren't they here? Why aren't they debating? Why don't they give us an opinion? In 2004, Mr Kalousek, through Mr President, was President of the Budget Committee. Jesus Christ, why didn't he intervene? You think Kalousek didn't know how to bake it with the OKD? Well, he knew perfectly well, I'll put my hand in the fire. And if I could be the vicar he goes to confession with, I'd probably find out. But this way, when we're together somewhere in purgatory, maybe that's where we'll find out. I told the Prime Minister three things in my performance. The first thing was a low price. A really low price. I've proven here using merchant numbers that he didn't really need any valuers, only his common sense. The price was clearly disadvantageous. Secondly, I explained to the Prime Minister that he had contracted a lack of housing guarantees. Indeed, he did not treat this in a contractual manner. If the contract was better written, I think... The contract is always a deal between two subjects. And in that contract, it could have been written better from my point of view. And the third thing I had to say to the Prime Minister was that the treaty did not address the question of financing technical liquidation of mines and the solution to the social programme. If the state hadn't sold the 46 percent, the 100 billion Bakala had made, it would have had to give 46 percent to the state, so the state would have had 46 billion. out of 100. Today the miners are asking me, "What are you doing in the House?" Bakala owes OKD 17 billion, sells it for a crown, or gives it to the company for free, I forgot what the Brit are called, the fund, but he kept the apartments. He kept 44,000 flats and 5,700 hectares of land. Is that normal, please? Is this normal? How am I supposed to explain this to the voters? They said to me, "Josef, tell the Prime Minister to come and run for North Moravia." I said that yesterday at a press conference, I guarantee him a really full square. Of course, it still depends on Mr. Rykal if he puts it on the list, because he runs it in the Moravian-Silesian region. But I think the chairman will agree. And he'll really be able to explain to people the benefits of privatization. I didn't really notice it as a benefit, I didn't, and it's totally disadvantageous for me. I still think there's hope. Here on the chest, that's the golden rescue cross. I've been a mine rescuer for 30 years. I've had about 500 mine hits. I've been in really difficult situations, but every time we went down that mine, we'd go with some hope. We went with the hope that we could save someone, help those buried miners, maybe. I really don't want to dissect this place. And I think that hope still exists here. Today, even if the contract is written from the point of view of the apartments, I think it has one clause that says that if the Czech Republic makes a complaint to the European Commission about illegal support and proves that the illegal aid has actually occurred, the contract is cancelled. The contract is canceled, which means we can get apartments. However, it is a question of really giving the European Commission relevant documentation, not of Pokorný making the documents. If this Pokorný prepares such evidence that we cannot prove that the Czech Republic is presenting illegal support, then we have nothing to do. So now it's about the government actually preparing such relevant evidence to prove that this illegal support has actually happened. [[17.30 hours]] Of course, Franta Laudát can tell through Mr President that the Minister of Finance could have already done this. Of course he could. But if he did this, his colleagues here will jump from the left, kicking the Prime Minister's ankles. So I want it to be in the resolution, that the House of Deputies actually initiates, instructs the government to take these steps and to initiate these actions by the Prime Minister. So then I'll read it in a detailed debate. The motion, the resolution, has three points. In conclusion, I will also support my colleague's resolution - Jesus Christ, now I've lost it, Černoch, forgive me, in which he will request the setting up of an investigation committee. I'm sure I think it's a good idea to call the Koláček here, ask him what happened with the shackles, why they gave him the cuffs. These are topics that will interest us, and we will certainly find some way to go. I'm sorry, my mouth is dry. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u33	I thank Mr Hájek. Now the factual remarks made by President Kalousek, President Kováčik, Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, Prime Minister, your two minutes.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u34	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have been mentioned several times in Mr Hájek's speech, so allow three points, a brief answer. Firstly, I believe that our workplaces are also subject to sanitary noise standards. And I ask you here to step in with over 90 decibels during Mr Hájek's speeches, because this is about our health. Secondly, Mr Hájek argued that as chairman of the budget committee in 2004, of course I knew what the government privatised. According to the laws still in force, even then, privatization decisions are made by the government, not by the Chamber of Deputies. So, of course, I didn't know and I couldn't. Ministers, then ministers for KDU-ČSL, who sat in government and made decisions could know. As far as I know, they are members of KDU-ČSL to this day, so please ask them nicely. I'm not a KDU-ČSL member today when you said the folks are out of their minds, otherwise they all have butter on their heads. For your information, the TOP 09 didn't exist back then. Three. You said, "Where are you? When Babiš was mentioned, you were all here. Now they're talking about 10,000 miners, you're not here." I assure you, Mr Hájek, through Mr President, that I have listened carefully to you in the rounds. I was just protecting my health from the scream. However, with all due respect to the tens of thousands of miners, whose fate is in my heart when we spoke about your President, we talked about the ten million stolen taxpayers that your President steals from. That's a little more people after all. I'm not questioning the plight of the tens of thousands of miners. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u35	Thank you. President Kováčik and his point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u36	Thank you for the floor. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that after long weeks and months this point, which we, too, have come up with as a proposal, has reached the conclusion that the motion for a resolution will already be presented and that perhaps something fruitful will finally come out of this long, long discussion. Not fertile because he's ahead of the election, but fertile to the people he's dealing with. I want to share the hope of Mr Hájek, who, by the way, also mentioned me in his speech, but not in connection with the hope that the light for the region, but not just for the region, there are other regions that have similar problems, that is, for economically, socially affected regions, it will enter. I just want to say that everything that was relevant from the point of view that we, as communists, have on this issue, was communicated by Mr Luzar. Just for the record, through Mr President, I would like to say to Mr Hájek, who said that we guaranteed the Prime Minister's presence that we cannot actually guarantee such a thing yet. The Prime Minister's presence is guaranteed by someone else, perhaps after the election it will be different. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u37	Thank you, Mr Kováčik. Mrs Markéta Pekarová Adamová. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u38	Thank you for the floor. It's more or less been said here. But I, through Mr President, Mr Hájek would like to ask that next time, even though I understand his upsetness, by the way, my grandfather was also a miner, so that next time either he would warn us or give us some earplugs, because it really was too much. Just because of the sound. We really suffer here literally, even though we sit very far away from you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u39	Thank you. Mrs Havlová, with a factual point, followed by Mr Josef Hájek, followed by Mr Laudát. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u40	I would just like to remind you here what has already been said in my speech that this is not only the Moravian-Silesian Region, but, as Mr Kalousek said here, Mr Babiš has been discussing here and it has been 10 million people, so it is also 10 million people with regard to the OKD, because at least 45 billion people have been robbed here.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u41	Thank you. Mr Josef Hájek and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u42	Mr President, I apologize for speaking out loud. But, you know, Mrs Adamová, through Mr President, I forgot your new name. Sorry. . Pekarová. [[Help from the O.R.]] You know, I had to talk to miners for 33 years, often in mines, fans, machines. You have 150 miners, you don't have microphones, you have to use your voice. It's my fault, I admit it, I'm sure I'll try to make a difference, but it's in me and I just wake up and talk about that thing - because I've lived my whole life there. You see, all my life. I was 36 years of mining, thousands of shifts, 30 years of paramedics. It's an experience. If we ever sit down with colleagues - not with you, because you'd be sitting age like a grandfather - but it's just sometimes sad experiences, and it really leaves you emotions, and those emotions sometimes come to me today, so I apologize for that. But whoever wanted to understand me, understood me, and maybe somehow absorbed the ball of that stressful noise. So once again, I apologize, and I really think I wanted to say what I feel, and what thousands of miners feel, because I'm one of two hundred, the only one here who's able to represent, able to fight for them, and is able to give them that hope. And I really want to give them that hope. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u43	I thank my colleague Hájek. Mr František Laudát's point of view. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u44	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be mad at me, you guys performing here, it's a little too much. If you're really shaking some pre-election feathers here... But these people need help. What else can the investigation committee do today? I wasn't there, I had nothing to do with what was going on, so take it between you two. You've consolidated the coalition, you've performed in almost four years. These people just need help right now. The region needs to solve specific problems. But look where you've moved all this time. We invited Mr. Mládek today a while ago. He had some suggestions about what he wanted to do in the Moravian-Silesian region. We said, well, it's not enough, but it's better than that. Then we know the government's struggling, running out of moves, whether that firm or her, state, they'll just take over, or they'll start figuring out who's gonna bail out. So if you want to make a resolution here, I'm giving an alternative. Firstly, that Chamber of Deputies I. Notes 1 that the government progresses slowly in solving OKD's problems, 2. that it does not address the development of the affected regions of the Moravian-Silesian Region and the correction of environmental burdens. II. The Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to start correcting the situation quickly with concrete steps. And really, really let it go. These people need help, not your bullshit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u45	That was Mr. František Laudát. But I am sorry, I need to check with the rapporteur whether a detailed debate has already been opened. It wasn't? If I understand correctly, we have exhausted the general debate, so I can put an end to this, because the factual point was still in the general debate. And if no one's reporting for a general debate, I'm really gonna close it. In the general debate, my colleague Leo Luzar. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u46	Ladies and gentlemen, don't worry, I won't scream, even though I have a lot on my mind. But what was said here reminded me of a situation in the Moravian-Silesian region that we experienced here. The D47 investigation committee - if I want to kill something and not investigate it, I'll do the investigation committee. Coincidentally, the same instigators of the D47 investigation committee are initiating the OKD investigation committee today. Then they backed out of forty-seven, left it in the air, and like it's hard to figure out something, but we're proud to beat each other in the heart, we set up an investigation committee on D47 because it's wavy, and we all heard those speeches here. It's hard for the members of the committee to find out today, because suddenly everyone is suffering from a terrible memory loss. And if you think the committee of inquiry at OKD won't suffer from anybody's memory loss and words - we'll invite Koláček and that there, and he'll... He'll tell you he forgot everything because it was a long time ago. [[He speaks very strongly.]] The tasks that are here and ahead of us are clearly for the authorities that have the options, let it be the Financial Analysis Service, let it be the investigator, let it be the courts. In many ways, the courts have even decided. So we have precedents. They were looking into some things. We have verdicts here. It's just up to the government to put it together as a whole. And jerking off your shirt in a populist way and promising those people who have been promised something for 20 years, so we're gonna promise them to vote for us now, but the opposite side! But they'll stay in the air again! That's what I'd consider treason squared. Because they've already believed that privatization will do them some good and that no one will take that shovel away from them. And suddenly, someone took their shovel. So let's get back to reality. The government has all the options and the material to resolve this situation, and it has the responsibility to address it. So let the government deal with it, and let us ask the government to entrust the questions that we are voting for it now, and I firmly believe that we will vote on these questions and demands on the government, so that we will require them to respond to them, let them get to know them, and that the results will lead us a little further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u47	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Still in the general debate, Mrs Jana Lorencová. You just need the two minutes, you're logged in to a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u48	I am always brief, Mr President. I will be now. I am convinced that the citizens of this country deserve to at least be named the culprit at the price that it doesn't turn out to be the best, that it doesn't all turn out according to their expectations. But it is the committee of inquiry, this committee of inquiry, that, in my opinion, is of the greatest importance of those that have been here so far, except for one or two. But this committee really has logic, and I very much intercede for voting for it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u49	Of course. One more point in fact. Thank you for keeping time. And now with the application, Mr. colleague Igor Jakubčík. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u50	Thank you for the floor. A esteemed colleague, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, is on the verge of a committee here, but you, members of the YES movement, have been and you have escaped from it. You initiated it. It's been said. You escaped from her, to D47. You're initiating another commission. We've got a precedent here, and there's a real assumption that you're gonna run from it, too. Why would we do that to the committee? I think it's a completely pointless thing to do. And I totally agree with my colleague Luzar. Thanks.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u51	Thank you for keeping time. And I ask who else in the general debate. Another colleague, Milan Urban, with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u52	Thank you. I'm ready to end up supporting the investigation committee because for me the idea of Josef Hájek investigating Viktor - that's pretty funny. Maybe I'll apply to be a member of that committee. I mean, what Antonín Seďa said here, he told the absolute truth. The government didn't sell it to any Bakal like someone's always trying to say. The government sold it to Viktor Koláček, who was a very popular chief of OKD. Everybody wanted it back then, so let's get everybody gossiping. The government didn't know they were gonna sell it to Bakal in six months. Okay, then. I think it's gonna be fine, Pepa, watching you and Viktor say it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u53	I thank my colleague Urban for his time on the point of fact. And I'm asking if anyone else in the general debate. If no one, I am ending the general debate. We will proceed to the debate in detail. The first is registered by a colleague Josef Hájek. And please the House for peace, we will discuss the motion for a resolution, so that we all perceive the various proposals. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u54	I will only briefly respond to the previous performance of my colleague Urban. Well, I'm sure it wasn't smiling. It wasn't smiling, we're really dealing with a serious problem here. We can discuss whether or not the commission did. I'm sure it's not easy, but if the committee actually approves, I'm ready to work there. I think I have enough experience, not legal, but civil, that I think I'm capable of working in teamwork. So, I beg you, specifically on this resolution. It is inserted into the system under No. 6048. I will allow myself to read the resolution. Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic 1. Notes that the privatisation of OKD was disadvantageous for Czech citizens in both economic and social fields. 2. In connection with these findings, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Government of the Czech Republic to: A) has taken all steps to secure movable and immovable property and funds which could be the proceeds of criminal activity committed in connection with the privatisation of 46 per cent of the share in OKD, a.s., privatised in 2004, in case the court decides that a criminal offence has been committed in determining the estimated price; B) without delay lodged a complaint with the European Commission on unlawful public aid in the case of privatisation of 46% of the share of OKD, a.s., in 2004, with the Government of the Czech Republic having all the reasons to believe that illegal public aid had taken place in this privatisation on the basis of new findings; C) The Czech Republic has joined the complaint on suspicion of undue payment of dividends from OKD, a.s., and has joined as damaged with a claim for damages and a proposal to secure property under the criminal code, because the State is constantly causing damage, with the state having to bail out losses of OKD, in particular to deal with the payment of miners instead of the debtor company, which the owner brought into insolvency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u55	I thank Mr Josef Hájek. Mr Leo Luzar has now entered into a detailed debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u56	Mr President, thank you for the floor. I'm really just a little short right now. Our proposal for the KSČM, which is the House document No. 4663, I have already explained quite in detail. In paragraphs 3 and 4, he answers all the questions that were raised here in the history of the investigation and how it was, who it was, and that the specific names from this material be known and made public. [[17.50 hours]] As for the other proposals that have been made here, which I would like to say very briefly - we will support all that is to the point of examining this situation. However, I would like to point out that some of the proposals that have already been made here are counterproductive or quite problematic. But yes, since it is not a law, it is not the points of the paragraphs that would be valid, but it is only a request, a request, a recommendation for the government to do something about it, so the government's response in these particular illogical things can be: "Your proposal that you have put forward makes no sense, has no head or heel, would prevent it, would do so, and therefore we cannot respond to it." But it's a matter of who put him up to the suggestion that he made a illogical proposal that could cause even more damage to the miners than he intended in its effect. But that's gonna be the official's business and the government's job to answer those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u57	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. Mr Marek Černoch now. And if my colleague wants Laudat, my colleague Laudát will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor in a detailed debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u58	Thank you. We talked about the points that would be dubulated, so some of the points that have been said here will be supported by the fact that we are proposing one single point at Dawn, and that is that the Chamber of Deputies agrees with the establishment of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies on the disadvantageous privatisation of the OKD. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u59	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. Now, Mr František Laudát, in a detailed debate. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u60	Thank you. Given that I think that since the investigation, the authorities have been active in criminal proceedings, various auditors, police, financial authorities, etc. etc., so I give for TOP 09 either an alternative or an additional proposal. I think these people need to be helped specifically now and tomorrow, not just digging around in the past, that's your business. So once again - the motion for a resolution will be, and it will not be excluded at all, we can vote on it after points. Parliament's Chamber of Deputies I. Notes that 1. the government progresses slowly in solving OKD's problems, 2. does not address the development of the affected regions of the Moravian-Silesian Region and the correction of old environmental burdens; II. Calls on the Government to start correcting the situation rapidly with concrete measures; and III. asks the Government to submit information to the House - 31 May 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u61	I ask if the rapporteur has the motion for a resolution from Mr Laudát so that we can do it afterwards - I can already see that he is handing it in. Anyone else in the detailed debate? It's not like that. I can also end the detailed debate. We will address the motions for resolutions tabled in the debate and I will ask - Mr Klaška is still reporting, on behalf of the club president I suppose. [[The agreement of the Member with the President.]] I wanted to vote, but I haven't asked that yet. You have your word. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u62	Thank you for the floor. I would like to take a ten-minute break after the final words on behalf of the MP's club, because the resolution has now multiplied like mushrooms after the rain. We need to sort this out a little bit, so I'm asking for a ten-minute recess for the club meeting.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u63	Okay, I'll oblige. I therefore ask the rapporteur if he is interested in the final word. He does. Please, rapporteur, your final word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the opportunity to discuss this point, which we have opened 30. 6th year last year. So that is almost a year ago when this point was discussed, when the Prime Minister, who spoke about twice in the whole time of the hearing, left most of these days. Twenty Members came out, so now the number is even higher. Twenty Members have appeared, and I have one thing to say. I agree with what Mr Luzar said here, as well as Mr Laudát, as well as Mr Hájek and others. Yes, you need to help the county. We need help from the miners. This thing needs to be dealt with. But at the same time, and I dare not agree with Mr Laudát through you, it is necessary to show people that the rule of law works, that the enforcement of law and laws that the Chamber of Deputies approves and that we want people to respect, so that they apply to everyone. I know we probably won't know a lot of things. A lot of things some people forgot, whether they wanted to forget or so long ago, they forgot. But I think at least to say that privatisation was wrong, that there were mistakes, that there was some responsibility, so it is a small, but certainly an important step in making politicians, Members, Senators, House, Senate and others come to the trust that is not among citizens today. Because most of the sentences I heard in OKD were, "It doesn't make sense. Don't worry about it, nothing's gonna work out." That would be resolved, so I think that it would be a first but very important step to restore trust in the Chamber of Deputies and in the institutions and in law in the Czech Republic. I will not repeat what has been repeated here several times. The privatisation took place in 2004 for the ministering of today's Prime Minister Sobotka. That's why we asked him. I asked him myself in one of the interviews if he would vote, just as I asked my colleague Sed if the Prime Minister would vote for the commission of inquiry - he did not answer me. If everything is okay and everything is okay, then I ask why he didn't answer, and if he voted against or abstained, why, for what reason. That is why I would ask you to support the resolutions that will be read or read here and voted because I think people deserve it. That it deserves miners, that it deserves ten million citizens of the Czech Republic, because it will happen to everyone in some way. And I have to say, I'm very sorry that, like, two hours ago, two hours ago, there's been a gallery full of journalists, why there's no journalist here today or at this point. Don't they care? It's a shame. And I don't think it really matters who's wearing the jersey. The point is to make it clear that we want the law to prevail in this direction, fall to whom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u65	I thank Mr Marek Černoch. At the request of the KDU-ČSL club, I declare a break until 18.07 hours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed. I'm looking for a member of the government to see if he's here. I'm gonna ask you to take your seats according to the seating chart. An apology was received from the chairman of the club ANO Faltýnek from 18.20 until the end of the meeting day, so he will surely vote with us for OKD before he leaves. Now we can proceed as soon as the House is quiet. In the meantime, I also state further apologies, namely Mr Herbert Pavera from 18.15 to the end of the day, as well as Kristýna Zelienková from 18.15 to the end of the day. I think, Mr rapporteur, that there is enough peace and so we can begin. Please report the way in which the resolution is adopted, because we have resolution four, and if there is a collision, we should avoid it and say the procedure for adopting the resolution that we would approve. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u67	Members of Parliament, honourable Members, Mr President, there are indeed four resolutions. Having agreed with the petitioners that we would vote after the points, I would like to put forward who is putting the resolution, and then read the points from this resolution, saying that we would vote on each separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u68	Does anyone have a reservation or doesn't they think it's compatible? No one has a reservation. We will approve this voting procedure in the number 279 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 279. 131 for 110 present, against no one. The motion was accepted. So we can proceed on a single basis. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u69	The first resolution is the resolution tabled by Mr Leo Luzar, and it reads: Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic: I. notes that the Czech Republic has reached a number of problems, which have been enhanced by the problematic privatisation of the right to acquire and trade in our national wealth, raw materials, including black and brown coal, through political decisions that have been contrary to the views of the general professional public and the academic community in the field of raw materials and energy and the absence of a clear long-term raw material and energy concept.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u70	All right, everybody heard. I'll sign you off on a request from the diaper just in case, ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. This proposal, the first, constitutional, will be decided in the vote number 280, which I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 280. Of the 115 present for 59, versus 3. The motion was accepted. We're good to go.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u71	The second point requires the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure: (a) possibilities of mining all types of coal as irreplaceable mineral resources of the Czech Republic today and in the future, (b) the protection of deposits reserved for the mineral of the Czech Republic from their irreparable impairment in the event of any changes in ownership relationships or termination of business; (c) the legality and fulfilment of all obligations entered into in privatisation and resulting from laws and regulations relating to the protection of health, nature, reclamation of landscape and employment; (d) effective use of state ownership and mining rights to previously unladen or planned mining sites, where strategic stocks of mineral resources can be dealt with not only by employment, but especially by our energy independence for decades; (e) the future of workers in health-exploiting professions to an extent contrary to their possible continued employment by means of an accelerated amendment to the pension law in order to allow for an earlier retirement for all employees concerned in accordance with international standards defining heavy work; [[18.10 hours]] (f) urgent and effective measures which will lead to a long-term time-defined distribution of the decline in OKD mining under the guidance and control of the State in such a way as to avoid the acquisition of existing stocks of coal, the non-refundable disposal of unclaimed mining works; (g) the use of funds from the auction of emission allowances to address the issue of Czech energy; (h) re-evaluation of Government Order No 827 of 19 October 2015, (i) re-evaluation of Government Order No 405 of 11 May 2016 and adopted a new government regulation that would reduce social impacts and offset job losses in connection with the possible closure of mining at ČSA mine following Government Resolution No. 827 of October 19, 2015.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u72	So that was the whole two. Even President Roman Sklenák on this matter. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u73	Thank you. I would ask if the House accepted this, to vote on points (a) to (f) separately and points (g), (h), (i) separately.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u74	We have approved the method of voting, so this is about changing our resolution. Therefore, we will not vote on a revision, but only on the fact that, within that point, we will separate 2a to f), and 2g, h), i) that it will be the second vote. Can we do this with one vote? No one objects to the President's procedure? If not, we will first decide that we can vote twice, in the 281 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour of the proposal of my colleague, Sklenák. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 281, from 116 for 110, we will therefore vote point 2 twice. [[against no one]] First, 2a) to (f), we do not need to repeat the motion for a resolution, the rapporteur has read it. We'll decide in the 282 vote that I started, and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 282, from 115 present for 60, against 1. This proposal was adopted. We will now vote on 2g), h), i). We will decide in the vote 283, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 283, from 116 present for 42, compared to 15. The motion was not accepted. Let's continue with point 3.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u75	Point 3. It asks the Government of the Czech Republic to instruct the competent executive authorities to clarify the activities which led to the property losses of the Czech State in the privatisation of OKD and, according to the findings, to file a criminal report. To this end, it is necessary to clarify: (a) who decided and tasked a representative of the State in the institutions of the undertaking to vote on the reduction of OKD's capital to the detriment of the National Property Fund, which resulted in the loss of the State's influence on the company; (b) who decided and subsequently carried out the transfer of shares in OKD to municipalities in order to recover those shares after a period of time, through a firm suspected to have acted against the interests of the State; (c) who was responsible for not investigating suspicions of illegal financial operations in the privatisation of OKD; (d) who caused the time lags and inactions of the State when foreign investigating and banking authorities drew attention to illegal financial operations; (e) who caused the failure to meet the legitimate expectations of tenants regarding the housing fund of the OKD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u76	Thank you. We will decide in the vote number 284 on point 3. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 284, from 115 present for 65, against 15. This proposal was also adopted. Point 4.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u77	Point 4. It requires the Government of the Czech Republic to ensure the mapping of financial flows in the accounts of interested persons, relatives of these persons and companies associated with these persons, who participated directly or indirectly in the privatisation of OKD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u78	We will decide in the vote number 285, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 285, from 117 present for 61, against 12. The motion was accepted. We can continue with another motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u79	This was the proposal of my colleague Luzar. The following is the proposal made by Mr. Hájek. "The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic I states that the privatisation of OKD was disadvantageous for the citizens of the Czech Republic in both economic and social matters."
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u80	Okay, separately. We will decide in the vote number 286, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 286, 118 for 63, versus 3. The motion was accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u81	Point 2 which is divided into three parts. In connection with these findings, the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic requires the Government of the Czech Republic to: (a) take all steps to secure movable and immovable property and funds which could be the proceeds of criminal activity committed in connection with the privatisation of 46% of the share in OKD, a.s., privatised in 2004, in the event that the court in the case currently under discussion decides that a criminal offence has been committed in determining the estimated price.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u82	Vote separately, yes, points (a), (b), (c). So 2a) we will decide in the vote number 287, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting number 287, from 116 in favour of 33, versus 5. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u83	Point 2b) immediately lodged with the European Commission a complaint of unlawful public aid in the case of privatisation of 46% of the OKD share, in 2004, with the Government of the Czech Republic having all the reasons to believe that illegal public aid had taken place in this privatisation on the basis of new findings.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u84	We're going to decide in the 288 vote that I started, and I'm going to ask who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 288, 117 for 37 against 2. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u85	Point 2c) the Czech Republic has joined the complaint on suspicion of unjustified payment of dividends from OKD, a.s., and has joined as damaged with a claim for damages and a proposal to secure assets under the Code of Criminal Procedure, because the State is constantly causing damage by bailing out losses of OKD, in particular by addressing the payments of miners instead of the debtor company, which the owner has brought into insolvency.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u86	We will decide in the vote number 289, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 289, 118 for 70, against no one. The motion was accepted. We can move on to the next motion for a resolution.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u87	Another motion for a resolution is the proposal by Mr Laudát. Item I. The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic states, 1. that the government progresses slowly in solving OKD's problems. - I'll ask my colleague if he wants to score points or if I can put two points together. [[The answer's off the microphone.]] 2. That it does not address the development of the affected regions of the Moravian-Silesian Region and the correction of environmental burdens.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u88	So that's the first proposal from my colleague Laudát. I've started voting number 290 and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 290, from 118 in favour of 26, against 27. The motion was not accepted. Another suggestion?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u89	The next proposal is point II. Parliament's Chamber of Deputies calls on the government to quickly correct the situation with concrete measures.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u90	We will decide in the vote number 291. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 291, from 119 present for 41, against 11. The motion was not accepted.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u91	And I'm going to add the last point 3 here because I don't know exactly the sentence. The Chamber of Deputies asks the Government to submit information on the procedure for redress, if I understand correctly. [[A Member of the Laudat suggests from the diaper.]] Okay. He's asking the government to submit information on the OKD situation and the deadline is 31. 5. 2017.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u92	So give information to the Chamber of Deputies. I started voting number 292. I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 292, from 119 present for 86, against 1. The motion was accepted. And now the final proposal?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u93	The last proposal is: The Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic agrees with the setting up of a committee of inquiry of the Chamber of Deputies on the disadvantageous privatisation of OKD.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u94	Yes. We will decide in the number 293 vote that I have launched, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 293 of 118 for 38 against 18. The motion was not accepted. Have we exhausted all the proposals, Mr rapporteur?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u95	Yes, we've exhausted and voted all the proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u96	Thank you to the rapporteur, thank you to my colleagues for their contributions to this long point throughout the debate and I am ending with paragraph 285. The chairman of the TOP 09 Club František Laudát is hereby declared with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u97	Ladies and gentlemen -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u98	Calm down, please!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u99	Thank you for your vote. I will not complain here that Members of the government movement do not even know what their ministers are voting for regarding the strategic policy of government in certain areas. Fine. But now you've approved one of the parts of my resolution, so get Babiš ready, and I'm going to try him here at the June meeting to see if he's filed a criminal report, if the FAÚ is taking action, because that, of course, concerns the entire resolution. Thank you for the vote.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u100	Thank you. Mr. František Laudát as chairman of the club. To vote only, of course, because we are not outside the debate. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u101	Thank you for the floor. I would just like to vote 277 for the screen record: I am late for high school, and I voted in favour. Well, just for the tape. I don't want to repeat the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-03-15-ps2013-055-10-013-285.u102	Yes, thank you, it will be noted in the log and we will continue, and that is a point number.
