ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u1	63. Government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Paris Agreement /German press 932/ - first reading It's an interrupted point in the government's proposal. We discussed this press again on 2 March at the 55th meeting of the Chamber of Deputies, when we interrupted the general debate. I ask that Vice-President of the Government and Minister of the Environment Richard Brabec and rapporteur for first reading Mr Václav Zemek, who I also see, take their seats at the rapporteur's table, and we continue with the interrupted general debate to which Mr Jan zahradník is the first Member to sign up. Before I give you my word, I'll ask my colleagues for peace. And if you conduct discussions other than on the subject which is the content of the press 932, please in the foyer so that my colleague Zahradník can give his speech in peace. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u2	Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I actually voted for the floor at the final stage of the previous Paris Agreement negotiations. I had intended to comment on the previous discussion, but one might say that today we are standing in a completely different environment and a different constellation, and so allow me to basically express myself now about what is new. First of all, it is probably new that we are already at the final stage of the debate on this law. The fact that this stage is already final seems to me because the government coalition's conviction to ratify this agreement shows itself to approve this agreement. It also suggests how it was actually included in the program. We usually dealt with the reports and agreements on Thursday after the end of the written interviews in the two-hour period between 11 and 13 o'clock, here we actually have the whole future time to infinity, because the gentlemen agreed to extend the negotiations over 19 and 21 o'clock, with the possibility of voting on these agreements at any time. But don't worry, folks, my speech isn't long enough for me to try and exhaust this time. There is no way that this is even possible from the logical nature of the matter. Defendants of the Paris Agreement, and the Minister, among others. Also, they say in the media that the vote on the draft Paris Agreement, on this law to which we will ratify the Paris Agreement, prevents ODS Members from actually saying that this is a House obstruction. This is where I want to go against this consistently. It's not like that. If you look at the records of our performances in the House's stenographic records, you can see that the number of Members applied for is balanced. They speak as those who question the Paris Agreement, who seek to show its flaws, draw attention to its degree of harm for the Czech economy, as well as its supporters, as well as the Communists, who attribute all this to the negative influence of capitalism, with which they try to put an end, as their friends showed last weekend in Hamburg. In our speeches in the House, there was nothing that was not directly related to the effects of the Paris Agreement. We also mention the reasons that question dogma about the global warming that has been caused by people's activities over the past two and a half centuries. Therefore, no one can blame us for preventing the vote on the ratification of the Paris Agreement. The Coalition has a sufficient number of votes to be able to vote on such a way of discussing, which would result in that conclusion as soon as possible. Finally, since the end of 2015, it can be said a year and a half, on the table, and so far we have only discussed this several times. First of all, it must be said that this is still the first reading that will follow the second reading at some close time, that this shortened media thinking and those questions that we are often exposed to, so how today's vote will turn out and whether or not the Paris Agreement will be approved today is odd, because there can be no talk about the final vote today. We will therefore have to vote at the end of the debate on the proposal that I have put forward to interrupt the negotiations until the government has presented an analysis of the impact on the Czech economy and constitutional order, and in the event of the interruption, we will have to wait until the government has done its work, which I think it should do, and has not done it yet, and then, if the coalition votes are not adopted, it will be voted on which committees this agreement will be allocated and also on what date, the committees will have to do it. The Organizing Committee has assigned the discussion of this agreement to the Foreign Committee, I propose at the moment, and I will try not to forget the conclusion of the speech to repeat my proposal, so that this law, i.e. the proposal, but it is actually the law, so I say correctly that this is the law which is ratified by the Paris Agreement, also dealt with by the Committee on the Environment. It might seem to us, ladies and gentlemen, that the subject of global warming, or, as they say now, climate change, is some new thing that has been here since the early 1970s, some 30, 40 years, but it is not. Fears of climate change, discussion of it, whether on the soil of science or a layman's discussion, have been here a long time ago. [[18.40 hours]] I would like to quote a quote from an article wrongly forgotten by Czech meteorologist doktor Josef Frejlach, a native of Bošilec, South Bošilec, who lived between 1867 and 1898 and published in 1893 in the journal Museum of the Kingdom of Bohemia. Dr. Frejlach writes this: If today's meteorologists for this time, in the history of the Earth, are bold enough to state the change of climate. In all this time, the views have come to an entirely annoying conclusion. Seems like a psychological riddle. How, in one and the same Earth, could men of serious, true scientists prove true climate change, whereas others, no less honorable, argued the opposite? What are the causes of these irregularities? Mainly from the diversity and unreliability of the methods that followed the common goal. Meteorologists are most likely to believe that our Earth's climate has not changed permanently in one particular direction at a time of history. Changes that have been made on the basis of weather are similar to pendulums whose normal resting position we do not know in particular. [[unintelligible]] Ancient reports of various phenomena of thermals must be read with the utmost care. Writers very often switch, depicting things to them somewhat extraordinary as extreme. The number of representatives of the theory on the impact of forests on precipitation is considerable. However, the number of opposers is not insignificant. We are still very far from deciphering the question of continuous climate change at a time of history. We suspect, yes, we similarly consider that the climate of our planet has changed in a sense, but this change is happening in times too long to capture it by our instruments in a short time of weather observations. We do not yet have a positive basis for meteorological data for scientific resolution of problems. Climatic changes, which continue to occur in different times of geological and especially in diluvia, also occur in the present time. However, their amplitude is too extensive to appear in a tiny time of historical deeper influence on our path. Therefore, historical climateology could not be clearly registered. Here it must be said that Josef Frejlach first used the term historical climatology in his article in Czech literature. Today, too, we have different views on the current climate change. The essence of the whole debate is not whether climate change is taking place, because no one is questioning that. Since the beginning of our planet's existence, the climate has changed and with it one of the climate indicators, which is the average global temperature. According to the supporters of the Paris Agreement, there seems to be only one and only one reason why this climate change is happening. The reason is undisputed and undisputed. So, actually, dogma, that the reason for climate change is man, is humanity, especially the inhabitants of so-called. developed countries that, by their activities, in particular by producing and consuming energy, are causing this climate change. It's their big fault they have to pay for. However, there are also different scientific opinions that question the theory that climate change causes high concentrations of carbon dioxide and others, so-called. dry greenhouse gases. Professor Jan Pokorný of the EnKI of Třeboň states: Climate change causes deforestation and drainage of the landscape, not an increase in the concentration of carbon dioxide and others, so-called. dry greenhouse gases. Climatic change is manifested by increasing temperature fluctuations, extending the time without rainfall with episodes of torrential rains, sudden temperature changes, permanent drying of the landscape, reduced flow in rivers, summer drying of small flows. In many areas in the Czech Republic, groundwater levels are falling drastically. Today, the drought suffers at 40 percent of the continent, and every year, as a result of dessertification, it dwindles to 100 thousand. kilometers of square farmland. Irrigation does not last long, its effect is not significant, because the irrigated soil is salted. We know all previous civilizations have dried up. The current state of one of the first major civilizations in Mesopotamia has the opportunity to see on television every day. It's Syria, the interstory of the rivers Euphrates and Tigrida. Civilizations are drying up due to poor soil and water management, not due to increased greenhouse gas concentrations. It hasn't been done in the historical past. Historical civilizations did not burn massive fossil fuels, yet they dried up. The UN Framework Convention on Climate Change is intended to reduce CO2 emissions after 2020 and thus follow the Kyoto Protocol and stop, or at least slow down global warming, which is assessed as an increase in average world temperature. The Paris deal we're supposed to ratify is headed for the wrong target. What we call climate change is not due to increased concentrations of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases. This year they froze again for apricots and peaches, elsewhere frozen blooming blueberries, every year we record local frost records and record high temperatures in the same month. It's because we're destroying the Earth's basic climate system, and that's vegetation and water that equalizes temperature differences in space and time. The integrated international climate change panel considers CO2 and CH4 concentrations, i.e. carbon dioxide and methane, to be the controlling factor in global climate change. And they miss the water. Although the amount of water vapor in the atmosphere is one to two orders higher than the concentration of carbon dioxide, 390 particles per million, and several orders higher than the concentration of methane, 1.8 particles per million. In the case of water at 21 °C, it is 22 400 particles per million. In the case of air saturated with water vapor at 40 °C, it is already 62,000 particles per million. The CO2 and CH4 content is relatively stable and several orders lower than the water vapour content. Here, in my opinion, scientists commit fraud and deceive the public who pay them for finding the truth. They deny the role of water and water in general and attract attention to so-called. dry greenhouse gases whose behaviour is described more easily than the behaviour of water in its three states. The effect of carbon dioxide on the climate is negligible compared to the effect of water and water vapor, while one changes the amount of water vapor in the atmosphere and the dynamics of its transformations as well as - let's admit - the volume and concentration of carbon oxides and methane. Finally, man creates a climate by managing water and vegetation on large areas, thus determining the distribution of solar energy and local climate. The proposed Paris Agreement draws attention from the real causes of climate change and the loss of agricultural production. Moreover, a narrow focus on reducing carbon dioxide production from fossil fuels and replacing biofuels has a negative impact on the climate. Forests for wood chips are destroyed, soil is degraded by repeated cultivation of rape and maize. Extensive fields are then most of the time without vegetation, so the surface temperature increases and accelerates the drying of the landscape. The role of the forest in the climate is underestimated. The Ministry of the Environment argues that the forest in the mountains does not have a significant hydrological function and allows it to deliberately dry, as in Šumava. The spokesperson of the Šumava National Park claims that the dry forest will evaporate less water than the forest alive, so it prevents drought. Some citizens take this nonsense seriously and cut down trees by removing water from agricultural crops. Science focuses on the binding of dry greenhouse gases and passes away the direct function of water and vegetation in the climate. Controversial views on the role of water and vegetation are also reflected in the design of the concept of protection against droughts for the territory of the Czech Republic. The vegetation is supposed to be wasting water, the ponds are vaporizing too much water, the wetlands can't contain water because they're already saturated with it. [[18.50 hours]] So we must say that if we approve the uncritically framework Paris agreement, we will have even more absurdities. High taxation of the use of fossil fuels and lack of energy, especially in winter, when less than a tenth of solar energy comes in compared to the growing season. If we want an example, we can turn to the beginning of this year, when it was freezing at the beginning of January, the sun did not shine, or the collectors were covered with a layer of snow and alternative sources in Germany produced fractions of the planned output, so they had to run on full turns of gas thermal power plant, of course driven, fed by Russian gas. Ladies and gentlemen, there are some old truths I would like to remind you of. For example, farmers used to say: water attracts water, or the forest attracts water, or it doesn't rain on a dry field. The peasants, the real ones, are getting less and less and with them the common sense is disappearing. Instead, climate is discussed in air-conditioned rooms and models are created torn away from reality. The text of the Paris Agreement is also the result of such models. Its implementation will lead to further deepening of climate change, loss of prosperity, reduction of competitiveness and degradation of the landscape and an increasing inability to manage the landscape. There are other interesting ideas - ideas that relate to the role of media and politicians in this complex scientific dispute, which has been here since Josef Frejlach at the end of the 19th century. Professor Miroslav Kutílek writes well about this in his article. He rightly asks why the media took up the task of promoting catastrophic predictions about climate developments. There is undoubtedly some sort of inherited anxiety, the consciousness of ancient disasters that have plagued mankind since its birth. Thus, the media meet the subconscious fear of mankind's global disaster and at the same time the desire to witness it. In doing so, the media can convey the fulfillment of another subconscious wish: if only we could survive this disaster and tell future generations about it as its witnesses. The treatment of disasters, the horrors of human misfortune and human misery all guarantees good sales. It is also recommended that catastrophic stories be ended by a happy end. In this case, this happy ending is intended to be guaranteed by those politicians who recommend reducing CO2 emissions as reliable and, according to them, the only means to avert disaster. But why did almost all politicians take up the game of global warming caused by humanity? Did media pressure subside, or did they even ride the wave of popularity with catastrophic visions? Or are we to believe that they have accepted the scenario on global warming as a substitute problem that they are putting off their low level of responsibility when it comes to specific environmental protection tasks? - Professor Kutílek, quoted freely. I add that I can clearly confirm Professor Kutílek's words. We are applying to the Paris Agreement, or at least I fear that we will do so by voting and planning our world for the entire century, and at the same time, under pressure from environmental activists, we have allowed the introduction of a wilderness on the Šumava area, and thus dramatically jeopardized its function as a natural reservoir of water. Why are there pressures on developing-country governments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions when industrial development in these countries is not feasible without increased energy production, almost always with increased use of fossil fuels and increased CO2 emissions? Do we really mean that these countries will respect the Paris Agreement? I also want to add that the fight against climate change is an excellent business. First, $100 billion will be redistributed annually to developing-country governments whose regimes are often not a model of democracy and where this money can fall into the black holes of their economies and end up in questionable corruption-related projects. It is also known that renewable energy projects can also be a source of immoral profits. We don't have to go far after all. We pay for solar business from public money, i.e. from all of us money, 45 billion crowns a year. And there are two other things that are new in comparison to the Paris Agreement's previous discussion. The President of the United States of America, Donald Trump, has declared that his country is withdrawing its approval of the Paris Agreement. It is, of course, fulfilling its electoral agenda, which is currently not a custom in Western society. This decision is correct and I consider it very courageous. Its historical importance is, in my view, that over a relatively long period of time, the representative of one of the leading countries of Western civilization has expressed himself clearly against the so far prevailing platform, which is that the West takes the blame for all the faults our current world has had, starting with the poverty of African and Asian countries, through the supposed trample on the rights of all possible minorities, to the acceptance of guilt for causing global warming in the last two centuries. The fact that Donald Trump hit black and the block of climate alarmists hit very hard suggests their hysterical reaction. It must be said that the supporters of the Paris Agreement were very surprised. No wonder. After essentially controlling the media and also school curriculum, which allow no theory other than the right one, i.e. the theory of global warming caused by man, they probably did not know that there were opponents of this theory in the United States, and they are important, and also because of the results of the US presidential election as well as legitimate political force. But, with rare exceptions, world politicians condemn, criticize, and even ridicule Donald Trump as one man. Ladies and gentlemen, for the further fate of the Paris Agreement, especially in order not only to be a piece of paper, but a credible and binding document, which perhaps its supporters want, the position of the United States of America is absolutely essential. The US accounts for 18 percent of greenhouse gas production, which is a very significant figure. As Donald Trump withdraws the US's signature under the agreement, the US's commitment to reduce this share significantly also falls under the agreement. It is clear that the citizens of the United States will try to do so in the same way that they will develop untapped alternative energy sources, that they will support untapped electromobility as their own personal decision, and it has nothing to do with whether or not the United States will be a signatory to the Paris Agreement. Freedom is coming back to America again, and it is a great drag of development, which is not true of the various regulations that former President Obama introduced into the United States. It is interesting and significant for the climate blurring situation that the supporters of the Paris Agreement turn to China as the main guarantor of the fight against climate change in this situation. Given that for all left-wing intellectuals, environmental and human rights activists, the communist regime in China is worse than the devil himself, their confidence in China's compliance with the Paris Agreement for a century is somewhat comical. Where does their trust in China, which does not recognise patents, copy anything and flood the world market with cheap goods, without taking into account human rights, social rights and the environment? We should be afraid that China, this Empire of the center, convinced of its worldly mission, will only carry out the agreement if it benefits it from a propaganda point of view. This time came by Trumpův's decision, and China is now taking responsibility for the fate of the world. As long as it takes and as long as China follows the Paris Agreement, it's in the stars. As China participates in the worldwide emissions production of 28 percent, a deficit of 50 per cent of emissions is suddenly created in world saving commitments. This is already a matter of consideration, and the Czech Republic should carefully consider whether the dubious prestige of being among the signatories to the agreement is worth the impact and consequences on the Czech economy, energy and constitutional order. In the end, the European Union, which produces 14 percent of emissions, will remain alone in this. It itself will take away the loss of competitiveness with commitments which, in my view, have been inherently triggered and which will be very, very dangerous in the world. [[19.00 hours]] Signatories of the Paris Agreement undertake to create a fund of $100 billion each year to help developed countries help those less advanced to meet their commitments to combat climate change. Given the fact that the United States was to participate in the creation of this fund for about one third, doubts arise as to how this huge amount will be created each year. So who's gonna pay for all this? This makes all environmental activists very nervous and attached to them by scientists who are already waiting to receive bold grants to combat climate change. This is another reason to be careful in this new situation when ratifying the Paris Agreement to Highness. Another important moment that should affect our decision-making and our vote on the Paris Agreement is the outcome of the G20 weekend summit. Climate protection was also one of the important points of their actions. That is, the state of the Paris Agreement. As expected, the United States has confirmed its position and President Trump has announced that, despite significant pressure, he confirms the withdrawal of the signature under the Paris Agreement. The remaining 19 members of the G20 have shown that the Paris Agreement is irreversible to them and that they want to implement it as quickly as possible. This is all nice, but if a rather unusual final statement had not been adopted at the same time, which contains the wording proposed by the United States. This final statement is unusual because such communication usually contains in the G20 negotiations only statements that support all members of the G20. The United States has pushed the final communication point, according to which they want to work closely with other countries and help them in a cleaner and more efficient use of fossil fuels. Since the signatories to the Paris Agreement want to maintain an increase in average global temperature from industrial change, about 1750 below two degrees Celsius to the end of the century, they will have to end, if they are serious, at least 66 percent with fossil fuels no later than 20 years. So I guess the whole commitment thing isn't that hot. In an interview, Chancellor Merkelová said that she did not want any disagreements to be disguised in the final statement. But there are disagreements, that's not valid. These are the two new things that have occurred since the previous negotiations on this matter and which I consider necessary for them to be heard and communicated here at the House plenary. I am now turning to all my fellow Members who want to vote in favour of the Act on ratification of the Paris Agreement. I should probably do this through the President. You are irrefutablely convinced of its usefulness for our country and you no longer want to hear arguments that question it, which call into question theories that stand as the basis for the theory of climate change. All the scams and scams that have been linked to these theories in the past, and which are being transmitted to the present, all the suspicions that are about the credibility of the evidence that the dogma is actually coming from today. So I'm going to keep my promise that my speech is going to sound like tens of minutes, which I think is fulfilling, because somehow I think I've had half an hour of my speech, and I'm going to end my speech. I therefore recall that I have proposed that this law should also be dealt with by the Committee on the Environment, and I would also like to report that at second reading we will then try to formulate a motion for an accompanying resolution that we might protect or try to protect the future from this binding agreement, not a declaration, not a platform, but an agreement that we will then adopt on ourselves by ratifying it. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes my speech. I think it is for our citizens, to whom the advocates of the agreement should tell all of this, what awaits us, and not just to say that we are actually doing all of this, so we have nothing to fear... Citizens should know what awaits them if we accept the agreement and, of course, if we want to fulfill it, which I suppose you all want to accept. We owe it to our industry, economy, energy, as I said before, to all citizens. So then, in the vote, a lot of common sense and put aside all the concerns that if we didn't approve it, we'd be somewhere on the edge. It's not like that. It's already been done by the United States, and it's not just any country. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u3	I thank Mr Jan Zahradník for his speech. Before we continue, I would like to remind you that his proposal after the end of the debate could be a few moments if we conclude the debate today, the House would vote on the suspension of this government proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic will submit its agreement to ratify the Paris Agreement according to House press 932, until the Czech Government has submitted information to the Chamber of Deputies on the effects of the Paris Agreement on constitutional order and on the economy of the Czech Republic. That's the text from January 19th this year. Before we continue with Mr Klán's speech, I will read the apologies received by the President of the Chamber of Deputies. Mrs Věra Kovářová apologizes from 18.45 to 21.00 for personal reasons, Mr Petr Adam from 19.00 and Mr Tomio Okamura from 19.00 also for personal reasons. Now, then, Mr Jan Klán's speech in the debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u4	Thank you for the floor, good evening, Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen. I listened carefully to my previous speaker, he is a critic of the Paris Climate Agreement. I, on the other hand, am her supporter, and that's why I'm going to develop a theory here again. I've been developing a theory here on the supranational capitalist class for the CETA contract. In this case, I will return to a theory that I have already raised here when this agreement was first discussed. The theory is that global capitalism is responsible for global warming. So let's just kind of develop this theory and show ourselves that it's a free market, a free market that's causing an increase in greenhouse gas exhalation and other consequences. I'll go back to why Donald Trump said he didn't somehow attach the signature under the Paris Climate Agreement when the United States made a commitment to it when Barack Obama was president. So if I'm going to use that analogy of journalist Naomi Kleinová, who in her book Capitalism versus Climate is changing all that, then Donald Trump is captured by the carbon lobby. The carbon lobby that rules in his own state. Which is also possible. [[19.10 hours]] Because if you remember, I told you about the multinational corporations here, and a number of multinational corporations are located in the United States, and in the vast majority they are mining companies, i.e. oil-mining companies, the carbon lobby. Of course, we can be involved there in addition to mining companies and companies that benefit from coal, natural gas or shale gases, because this topic is not only discussed in the United States of America. That's for starters. Because they're corporations, if we call them carbon lobbies, they're corporations that say that global warming doesn't really exist. Why does he say that? They claim it for a simple reason, and that's because they're in the way of their further expansion and further accumulation of capital. Many theorists point to this. I am not alone in dealing with this problem, but, for example, as I have already mentioned here, Leslie Sklair, who is a criticism of globalisation, I also consider myself one criticism of the current concept of capitalist globalisation, because this globalisation does not benefit everyone, only a narrow group of people, which I think is wrong, because everyone is supposed to make money on globalisation. Worse still, globalization is not run by anyone. It just happens spontaneously on its own, and it's ruled by really multinational corporations. So, as I said, global warming is, in my opinion, responsible for global capitalism. Everything is built on endless growth in growth. If we put it into economic logic, the point is that the economy and, of course, the well-being or the consumption of society is constantly and endlessly growing to infinity. This is the first paradox, because we live on a final planet with finite resources if we talk about mineral wealth. This mineral wealth is exhausting, it's already showing us, because resources are beginning to fall slowly. There will certainly be an oil break in the future, i.e. the mining will go to the top and then it will start to fall. We're approaching this breakthrough. Maybe I don't - I don't say everyone - live to see him, maybe I'll see him that the theories were right. I can already see the arguments from neoliberal ODS politicians, laissez-faire supporters, that they will say that this is not true, that there will always be another new source and we will find something new, and there is no need to increase the share of renewable resources in any way. I say that it is also necessary to increase the share of nuclear energy, even if it is an irrecoverable source. In the future, we will certainly have a fully functional thermonuclear fusion, because hydrogen is certainly enough in the water. Another problem is that many people, let's say almost all the people on our planet want to live a similar consumer lifestyle to that of Euro-American civilization. This process is now being started in China, where it arises exactly, if we say it by sociological terminology, middle class, which wants to live in a similar way, I say not exactly the same, but similar to us. Have all the benefits of Western consumption, let it be a TV, a passenger car, a computer, the Internet and other things that have brought globalization. Here it must be said that, thanks to globalisation, there has been a boom in these other things. However, as the carbon lobby somehow empowers politicians, and that is the proof of Donald Trump, there is another historical paradox, and that when global warming occurs by increasing the exhalation of greenhouse gases, permafrost begins to melt. If the temperature rises, the soil melts forever frozen and more greenhouse gas, methane, is released. This phenomenon also happens gradually and is also proven. Of course, someone here can tell me once again that planet Earth in its historical developmental tendencies - storms have knocked it down every once in a while, such as a small ice age, and now, for example, the heat. And we always say that global warming doesn't exist. This is what former President Václav Klaus, who wrote the book Blue, not the green planet, points out that there is simply no global warming. When it was 40 degrees Celsius, we were saying and pointing out that global warming exists. It doesn't mean that when it's cold in our country that global warming doesn't exist. The changes that globalization started because it started to affect the whole world, whether they were impacts on the landscape's relief, or in some way to increase precisely the exhalation of greenhouse gases, so we got to the stage that we now call the anthropocene, that is, when man is already ruling over nature in general. And the consequences are, in the vast majority, just negative that nature is not enough to recover itself from human intervention. And it is the pursuit of capital and accumulation of capital that increases the devastation of nature. This is an entirely simple logic, which is again indisputable, because it is always more and more expansion to these corporations that mine minerals. No one's denying that anymore. Of course, the deniers will come and the deniers will certainly respond to my performance. I'm not afraid of the debate. Many are talking about an ongoing battle today. Just like me, maybe they say global warming exists, then there are others that it doesn't exist, so there's a battle. Then someone gets out and says that global warming is caused by those environmentalists who seem to advocate these ecologically different theories. That's another conflicting opinion we're gonna meet. On the one hand, then, there are those who run capitalist globalization, that is, large corporations. They consider the environmental crisis an obstacle because they're constantly trying to make money, that's what I've said here. They're trying to maximize the accumulation of capital, that's what they're trying to do. This isn't about saving nature, it's about the maximum accumulation of capital. On the other hand, there are scientists who are beginning to perceive a new era in Earth's history, as I said anthropocene. And these scientists, whether they are sociologists, critics of globalization, supporters of globalization, point to the negative tendencies that lead to global warming. You have to count on it. Of course, it goes hand in hand with, for example, the overpopulation of the planet. This is one of the other globalization problems that arise. That hasn't been pointed out here yet. Of course, I welcome the Paris Climate Agreement. Yes, I personally welcome it because it is necessary in some way to preserve the planet Earth in some form to my children, grandchildren, grandchildren, so that there is no destruction itself, because crisis scenarios have existed since the 1970s, when so-called. Roman Club. Of course, I was once labeled crazy from the Roman club. This was even said to me at one seminar, but I pointed out that, of course, prosperity and growth can grow in some way and it is the concept of sustainable development that the Roman club has just come up with. I have no problem identifying myself with this. Some theories of the Roman Club, or of crossing the limits, which is another theory that we have crossed the limits long ago so that the planet Earth can rebuild itself. That's why they often give us punches, whether it's a type of lightning flood or floods, or in some way huge weather swings. It happens a lot that you have a different temperature of 20 degrees. That we're getting tornadoes, hurricanes, although of course it's a natural phenomenon on a planet that's being watched historically. But as the planet gets warmer, the more climate change becomes and more and more harsh. That's what needs to be said. Thus, the political scene tries to respond to studies. I'm one of those guys who's trying to respond to those studies that come out. I read both critical theories especially at the perspective of globalization and, of course, I read neoliberal theories, whether Friedrich von Hayek or Friedman or Nozicko, which are proponents of neoliberal theories. I'm submitting them to the criticism, the critical analysis that I'm always trying to introduce to you here, so that somehow you start thinking a little bit about the other side. But I say, I do not hesitate to listen in any way to the opposition, i.e. the supporter, in essence, to the expansion of private corporations, which, of course, are responsible for global warming, because it is about their expansion. But we have to find some kind of compromise. The compromise is quite difficult to find, because it is always said that one is to blame, and others are not to blame. The development of mankind in the 20th century led to the fact that, of course, the world was divided into a rich north, poor south. You have other emerging countries here, you have BRICS countries today, you have other countries that are trying to read or catch up with the United States in some way, even in that consumer. [[19.20 hours]] We don't just have to put it specifically as an emphasis, for example, on industry, but only in consumption. Then there is the analogy that, as humanity tries to consume more and more, it draws on the development. Consumption's pulling through today's development. Unfortunately, it's just this factor. That's all it is. Compared to the past times, if I were to give some of those solid modernities here, if we put it that way today, and I, as a sociologist, can afford it - solid modernity versus liquid modernity, when humanity is connected today. Completely complete, with digital technology. Modern technologies, of course, can reduce the exhalation of greenhouse gases, let them be smart feelings projects, e.g. a clever city where greenhouse gas exhalation is monitored. This is one of the ways in which globalization is actually taking place, some trends. However, as I said at the beginning, there is still a strong carbon lobby that holds some policies in captivity. And of course, they don't want to admit it either, that's one option, or they're proud to nod to it. Variant number two. I was quoting from the book "this changes everything" back then. And I was quoting Václav Klaus here as one of the theorists who, in some way, denies global warming. I pointed out there that he was always invited by private multinational corporations, just mining or in some way processing coal, to the United States to speak on the subject that global warming does not exist. Those records exist that he uttered these different words. These corporations have always used some authority that was somehow associated with neoliberal theories in our 1990s, when the neoliberalism theory was once again promoted in our country, if you want a Washington consensus, or simply a right-wing theory. Later, of course, it has failed and failed to this day. She's still crashing. Of course, I do not deny that some left-wing theories also have their limits, all theories have their limits, but we have to discuss these problems. And one of these problems is the Paris Climate Agreement, which needs to be discussed. Of course, when the United States starts to retreat, China doesn't retreat. Mr Zahradník, through the President, said here that China will be responsible for the future of the world, so it will not just be China. They will also be the other economies that want to go to the level of these states. This will be for example. India, another country that is relatively large, you have Brazil, you have here Russia, which will once again operate with the mineral raw materials that it has in its power, and it is the state that is, of course, the largest in the world. Again another factor to be taken into account. These other things. The problem is, Donald Trump's choice was also a rebellion against globalization. In the United States, ordinary Američan, who were affected by globalization as a whole, were excluded from various working processes where they fell into poverty or into the class that we now call the pre-cariate, that is, classes that have to work in inferior positions for a small reward, in unstable jobs, etc. And this, of course, also manifests itself in our circumstances, this negative trend in globalisation, and it is also necessary to discuss it. Of course, it's not so much part of the Paris Climate Agreement, but I'm pointing out the contradictions and the proportions that we have to discuss here, of course. It will somehow keep global warming well below two degrees Celsius compared to the industrial period and get as close as possible to 1.5 degrees Celsius will be a rather difficult task at that moment when we still have everything built on non-recoverable resources. Of course, I understand that it's the cheapest, of course, to make the most of it, because for those corporations, it's profit and so much they don't want to invest in renewables. Of course, the investment is going on there, and there are also developments. However, China could now be the source of renewables, any energy, solar and others. This could be one pull of renewable resources and force the United States of America to either go back to the Paris Climate Agreement or start investing even more in renewables. Let me mention here that it is necessary, at least in my opinion, to adopt the Paris Climate Agreement. Just by the principle that it is regulatory, that it is a type of regulation. Of course, it's an agreement, so agreements aren't legally binding. Of course, there is - he will tell us something - about some kind of sanctions if the United States does not sign or accede to the Paris Climate Agreement now. I have already heard the words of some colleagues from the right that when the Paris Climate Agreement is adopted, it threatens industry to somehow reduce the number of jobs. That's exactly what Donald Trump is operating on. He operated on it, exactly with this concept, that it would simply reduce the number of jobs, they would close, for example. mines or something. Of course, this concept can always happen, but here you can remember, for example, the problem of OKD, when everything closed there without having any of these impacts. That needs to be taken into account. I'm not gonna keep you here any longer at this advanced late-night hour, and maybe I'll save some more for my second reading. [[Applause]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u5	I thank Mr Jan Klán for his speech and we will continue. I will also read the apologies received by the President of the House: Mr Jaroslav Holík apologizes from 20 o'clock, Mr Andrej Babiš apologises from 19 o'clock, Mr Jiří KaňkovskKaňkovský apologizes until the end of the day, Mr Milan Šarapatka and Mrs Pavla Golasowská. At this point, I have no further application for a debate. I'm asking who's checking in from the scene. If no one, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. The rapporteur for the debate.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u6	I am so sorry, I was so interested in the debate, I would like to propose a reduction in the time limit for the committees to 30 days.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u7	Okay, in the debate, there was a proposal to shorten the time limit for committee discussions to 30 days. It's a legitimate suggestion. Who's next in the debate? If no one, I am done with the debate. I'm asking for final words. Mr. Secretary? Yes, the Minister is interested in the final word. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u8	Mr President, colleagues, first of all, I would like to thank you for the very constructive debate. When someone interrupts something four times, you're happy to be able to reach the fifth time - now I'm going to say to culminate, but to end the debate. [[Jollyness in the Hall]] I'm happy for that. Although, of course, I know there will still be a second reading. [[19.30 hours]] But I would like to say that the Paris Agreement, as we perceive it regardless of the move by Donald Trump, will not impose any additional burden on the Czech Republic beyond what we are binding on within the European Union or our membership within the European Union, and that we are indeed the last country, now definitively, because the Netherlands has, in the meantime, ratified and just waiting for formal steps. And it's not just about the reputation issue, let's say, but it's also about the fact that the Czech Republic is actually an observer at that point, and it can't even get to the basic decisions in the Paris Agreement. I would therefore like to ask you to release the Paris Agreement to committees in which we will be voting in a moment and, if necessary, continue the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u9	Thank you, Minister. I'm asking the rapporteur. He's not interested in the final word. I repeated Mr Zahradník's proposal, which we must vote on before we discuss the possible commandments of committees for discussion. I checked you out, I'll ask you for a new registration, please log in with your I.D. cards. I would like to repeat Mr Jan zahradník's proposal, which reads: The Chamber of Deputies interrupts the discussion of a government proposal by which the Parliament of the Czech Republic gives its consent to the ratification of the Paris Agreement, House press 932, until the Government of the Czech Republic submits information to the Chamber of Deputies on the effects of the Paris Agreement on constitutional order and on the economy of the Czech Republic." I believe that all those who wanted to sign up are enrolled, and we will decide on Mr Jan Zahradník's proposal in voting number 159, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 159, from 120 in favour of 19, against 78, has not been accepted. We will therefore consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. The Organizing Committee proposed ordering the draft to be discussed by the Foreign Committee, in the debate a proposal was made to the Committee on the Environment. Mr rapporteur, check on me because I have not conducted the whole debate in those previous parts of the debate, and I therefore ask if there will be another proposal. I would point out that contracts are not or are not ordered by the Guarantee Committee and those committees are equal, so they are not there. Mr Marek Benda is still reporting because the Committee on the Environment has been proposed several times in the debate. A colleague of Benda's with a proposal, please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u10	Mr Vice-President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. As I submitted about five months ago at the time of my speech in the previous hearing, I suggest that we also order the Constitutional Legal Committee. I am concerned about the question of who will commit the Republic to any obligations arising from the Paris Convention, whether it can be a government only as an institution, or whether the agreement of the two chambers of Parliament would be necessary there. Because, of course, the commitments would then bind the Czech Republic and are de facto voluntary, what we will accept, but if we accept them once, then they are already subject to sanctions. So here I think it is necessary to clarify who accepts the commitments of such an international convention for the Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u11	There. I thank Mr Marek Benda for his proposal to the Constitutional Committee. Mrs Aulická. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u12	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I would also like to propose an economic committee. I think that the issue really concerns industry and trade in particular and that it would be appropriate for this committee to discuss this agreement as well.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u13	Okay. The Economic Committee. Any other suggestions? It's not like that. We will therefore vote gradually on the commandments of the various committees. So we will now vote first on the proposal of the Organising Committee, and that is the commandment of the Committee to the foreign one. We will decide in the vote number 160, which I have begun, and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 160, from 127 in favour of 126, versus 1. The motion was accepted. Now the proposal for the Committee on the Environment, which was the most frequent, will be voting number 161, which I have begun, and I ask who is for the commandment of the Committee on the Environment. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 161, from 129 in favour of 123, against no one. This proposal has also been adopted. We will now discuss the proposal for the constitutional committee which has been tabled in the vote number 162 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of the commandment to the constitutional committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 162, from the 129: for 45, against 58. The proposal was not adopted and the committee can therefore only discuss the proposal on its own initiative. And now the motion for discussion in the Economic Committee is the 163 vote that I have begun, and I ask who is for discussion in the Economic Committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 163, from 129 in favour of 39, against 69. Even this committee has not been approved and can therefore only be discussed on its own initiative. Allow me to end the discussion of the first reading of this government proposal. Sorry. We will still discuss the reduction of the time limit for the committees to 30 days, in the vote on order number 164 that I have begun, and I ask who is in favour of shortening the time limit for the discussion to 30 days. Even if we don't know if it's necessary. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 164, out of 129 present for 86, against 11. The application was accepted and the time limit for the hearing was thus reduced to 30 days. The Government's proposal by which Parliament of the Czech Republic is to give its consent to the ratification of the Paris Agreement, House Press 932, has been ordered by the Foreign Committee on the Environment and the deadline for committee discussions is 30 days. [[and the Committee]] Thank you to the Minister, thank you to the rapporteur. I'm done with point 63. Vice-President of the Government Pavel Bělobrádek. Mr. Vice-President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u14	Mr President, fellow Members, I would just like to stand up for our fellow Member, Mr Uhlík, that the carbon lobby is neither the carbon lobby nor the carbon lobby, so my colleague Uhlík has absolutely nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-07-11-ps2013-059-05-005-063.u15	Now, that was a crucial reminder not to confuse this element of Mendělejevův's table of elements with the name of our precious colleague. So, we can go on, and that's a point.
