ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u1	198. Members' proposal by Zbyněk Stanjura, Andrej Babiš, Martin Plíšek, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Bělobrádek, Roman Sklenák and Pavel Kováčik to issue a law amending Act No. 301/1992 Coll., on the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic and the Agrarian Chamber of the Czech Republic, as amended /German press 1089/ - first reading The Government's position has been delivered to you as press 1089/1, and I am now asking Mr Zbyněk Stanjura to present the proposal as the appellant. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor. Mr Holeček, please, will make room for Mr Stanjur. Thank you. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u2	Good afternoon. We will discuss at first reading the draft Parliamentary Act on the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Agriculture of the Czech Republic and I am glad that you have complied and placed that point first, because if you look at the list of referring Members of the Chamber of Deputies in this law, it is not quite common. We have seven petitioners, and I speak on behalf of those Members, but apart from me it is signed by Andrej Babiš, Martin Plíšek, Petr Gazdík, Pavel Bělobrádek, Roman Sklenák and Pavel Kováčik. I'm reading it to document a fairly strong consensus over the text of this law. It is an initiative of the Economic and Agricultural Chamber. I promised tonight on the grémia that I would not delay and try to say only a few basic things in the introductory words on this bill, the rest you will find in the explanatory report. In advance, I'm going to propose two possible deadlines for shortening the deadline between first and second reading for 20 days, and if it doesn't pass, maybe 30 days. This legislation introduces into the rule of law an obligation for the State to declare, in separate annexes to the legislation, an overview of the obligations arising for users of the law published in the Collection of Laws and International Treaties and also declared otherwise. Typically, they're municipal decrees. At the same time, there is a right for users of law, especially for entrepreneurs, so that they can obtain a comprehensive overview of the obligations for them under all the published legislation in one information system operated by the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic. This legislation will lead, in addition to the above, to an increase in quality, clarity, clarification and consistency of the legal order of the Czech Republic in the long term. The need for a publication of an overview of the obligations will lead to the introduction of self-regulation principles in lawmaking, where the applicant or the applicant respectively. The legislature will have to clearly identify the scope of the obligations arising from the legislation in question, the legal consequences of non-compliance and, at the same time, the authority which is entitled to enforce the obligations on behalf of the State. At the same time, the introduction of this system will reveal inaccuracies in the legal order, identify duplication of legislation for specific legal relations, as well as sorting and clarifying legal terminology. In conjunction with the information system Collections of Laws and International Treaties and the information system of lawmaking will form a interconnected and user-friendly system for the orientation of users, entrepreneurs in the law in force in the Czech Republic. If I translate it, this relatively long paragraph, our ambition is to get two advantages. First, so that everyone knows what obligations they have to fulfil, so that it is in a separate annex, so that it is clear who enforces those obligations across the state. And the second effect could be that those who make amendments to laws or new laws make new laws to realize what all new obligations they impose on those who are to comply with them. In the explanatory memorandum, you will also read an estimate of how much entrepreneurs spend on legal services to even get their bearings. And you know that today even very high judicial authorities say that our legal order is so inconspicuous that it's hard to navigate. [[15.40 hours]] I'd like you to pay attention to the numbers for a moment. Micro-businesses, roughly 650 thousand, are estimated to each give 20 thousand. a year for legal services, which is 13 billion. per year for the smallest businesses. Small businesses, roughly 250 thousand, are estimated to be 100 thousand. annually for legal services, which is another 25 billion. For medium-sized enterprises, of which there are 10 thousand, it is estimated that they will put about half a million a year on legal services, which, of course, is already just, in quotation marks, only 5 billion. And for the big businesses, the biggest, which is a hundred, each of them gives an average of 2.5 miles. The crown, which is only 250 miles. crowns a year. In the sum, it is estimated that more than 43 billion are spent annually on legal advice for entrepreneurs to be oriented. Crowns. And out of that, micro and small businesses, they're the ones who can't have economists, lawyers, internal auditors, so they'll pay you 38 billion. crowns a year. Unbelievable number. And this is a chance to simplify it for them, how to significantly reduce these costs so that they can invest the money they saved in their employees' wages, or in the technological or other equipment of their companies. I believe that this proposal, which has broad and political support, will be supported, released for second reading. It is one of the cases of a bill that we could, if there is good will, be able to do in this parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u3	I thank the plaintiff. Now Mr Pavel Šrámek, who is excused on account of his foreign travel, was to take the floor of the rapporteur for the first reading, so we will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur. I'll check you all out first. Please sign up with your voting cards, and we will vote on the amendment of the rapporteur for the first reading, which should be Mr Martin Kolovratník. I am opening the vote on the amendment of the rapporteur from Mr Šrámek to Mr Kolovratník. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It's vote number 37. 92 Members and Members are registered, for 85, against none. I will ask the rapporteur to take the floor. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, good afternoon. Thank you very much, fellow Members, for having gained your trust in me to become a substitute rapporteur for this law. It was a short notice during today. I have this information about two hours old, so I'm sure you'll excuse my performance being brief, maybe a little superficial, but I don't think it's gonna be a glitch right now, at this point. As with other laws, this proposal will be discussed, I suppose, mainly on committees. So I, in the position of rapporteur, if you want a replacement rapporteur, will share information with you. It's the House press 1089. The House's Organizing Committee has already discussed it and proposed it for discussion, or as a guarantee committee, is proposed by the Economic Committee, from the logic that the bill amends Act No. 301/1992 on the Economic Chamber of the Czech Republic. I note that this concerns not only the Chamber of Commerce but also the Chamber of Agriculture. Now I don't want to presume whether any of you or your fellow agricultural committee will want to discuss it with you. I don't know, I'll leave you to it. I'm certainly not suggesting it as a rapporteur. I'm going to assume that the economic committee is the guarantee. I do not want to double the explanation made by Mr Stanjura, the rapporteur's representative a little while ago, but I will recapitulate in just a few sentences that this is well-meaning. The amendment introduces an obligation for the State to declare electronically an overview of its obligations in the separate annexes to the legislation. You know the practice, the complexity. We are often criticized for the fact that these laws are huge. There's no way to know them. After all, there is also a winged proverb: Ignorance does not excuse. Ignorance of the law is no excuse. After all, so do the courts, virtually. the judicial system. Everyone's supposed to make arrangements, and they're supposed to know the laws. In addition, an obligation is introduced, or a new obligation is proposed by the Chamber of Commerce, to manage the legal electronic system for its entrepreneurs, so that they in one place and in one information system have an overview, a comprehensive overview, the news and, above all, the new obligations that arise for them. So I assume that the Chamber of Commerce will welcome this, that it has also been discussed. At the same time, I, as Vice-President of the Economic Committee, look forward to the debate on the Economic Committee, where we will hear the arguments. But to be fair and fair, as rapporteur, I also have to comment briefly on the government's position, virtually. statements received from the government. The Government has taken a neutral position on this proposal. And I, when I quickly became familiar with the content of that statement, forgive me for the expression, I kind of feel the fear that it wouldn't be a road to hell paved with good intentions. And I repeat, forgive the expression, it's a free analogy. To be correct, I will quote exactly what has been said or, as the neutral government's position has been justified. The government said that one of the fundamental principles of the rule of law is equality of all before the law. And she sees, or is there a certain risk that the amendment tabled here unwarrantedly favours the selected group, one group of legal addressees before the others. Thus, in particular, entrepreneurs in front of other ordinary citizens who are not entrepreneurs, and such service would no longer be provided to them. And second disagreement, virtually. The second issue that I am registering by the Government concerns the design of sub-legal standards. Thus implementing decrees, where the government clearly defends itself, virtually. He says that by the only constitutional right to issue, to propose implementing regulations, it is precisely the right of the government to authorise it. And the proposal, as it is now formulated, says that the authority here, the Chamber of Commerce, would have that possibility. Resp. The Chamber that it could submit a proposal to the Government and request it could demand within a legal time limit that the Government should comment on those proposals by the Chamber of Commerce. Perhaps there is a free comparison, as if we were to put in here a draft of the law, and the government is obliged to respond to it within a month. So this is also included in this amendment, and we should take a position on this and say whether we want to give the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Economics, the Chamber of Agriculture, one, to the professional association in the legal system that much power. To honor the role of rapporteur, I will not comment. I'm not gonna say my evaluation yet. I suppose I'll keep it for the debate on the Economic Committee, and end my speech as rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u5	I thank the rapporteur. I am opening a general debate in which Mr Martin Plíšek first came forward. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u6	Dear Vice-President, dear colleagues, let me also make a brief statement as one of the proponents of this amendment. As has already been said here, the proposal has been signed by a diverse group of Members across the political spectrum. In my view, unfortunately, the government is disproportionately burdened by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs during the current parliamentary term. He puts senseless new and new responsibilities on them. It increases their administrative burden, whether it concerns the enforcement of electronic sales records, VAT control reports, but, after all, the point that I pushed through at the meeting of the House and we will deal with it tomorrow, namely the abuse of the institute called. tax orders Financial administration of the Czech Republic. So these are the things that burden entrepreneurs. [[15.50 hours]] Someone reportedly calculated that we have about 15,000 laws in force. A lot of them fall on businessmen. It sets different responsibilities for them. And I think that if, for example, the state is disproportionately burdening the entrepreneur with its hedge orders, they have to do a lot of things, even confiscate their property, they should at least have some service for them. And the service is that at least it will publish the laws and laws that bind entrepreneurs, and in a calendar year it will introduce them to the information system, which means the legal and economic system of their duties. Unfortunately, this should have been here by now. Of course, he was supposed to offer it to the state as his service. I want to say that the Chamber of Commerce of the Czech Republic has taken up this matter and has offered to prepare an overview of the legislation relating to entrepreneurs. That means, as the petitioner has already said, a whole bunch of standards binding entrepreneurs will be published in the coming years. What is important, with every new legislation relating to entrepreneurs and business environment, will need to be annexed to this law an accurate overview of the standards that will apply to entrepreneurs. That means, here's a strong service for businessmen. We will, of course, still talk in the second reading about the amount of fees they will have for the service. I don't think it should be high amounts, because big companies have their accountants, legal teams, of course small businessmen don't have that kind of background. So let's take a look at this in the second reading. But as I say, if the state brings new burdens, new obligations on entrepreneurs, it is only right that at least - even if we are in the election year - and I hope that such standards will be commonplace after the elections, so that the state will also provide them with a certain service in that, if it requires something from them, it will at least clearly tell them what it is. I also hope that we will be able to discuss this law during this parliamentary term. If, for any reason, we fail to make it, I hope that everyone who signed it or representatives of the MPs will sign up for this proposal after the elections. So, for TOP 09, I am clearly presenting support for this proposal and, of course, we will also support the shortening of the time limits for committee discussions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u7	Thank you, Mr Plíšek. Now two factual points, then one priority right. First of all, Mrs Helena Válková, her factual point, followed by Mr Ivan Pilný, with a factual point. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I just want to point out in my point of fact what the rapporteur has pointed out very well here. We are actually transferring de facto competence to this standard, or we could at least partially transfer it to an authority that would in this respect become a monopoly. All the consequences of this need to be considered. I think that is why it would not be appropriate for us to reduce any time limits for committee discussions. I am only in favour of simplifying the life that we complicate by confusing new laws and not always making clear provisions for entrepreneurs on the one hand, on the other hand, we should not create an environment where there will be one body that will actually have the power to substitutate what the government should do, or the Ministry of Resorts. And I'm also afraid that the burden associated with it will not ultimately be counterproductive in its result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u9	Thank you. With another factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u10	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have nothing against this law, I would just like to point out that digitizing legislative spaghetti is hopeless. And I think that if this proposal is discussed in committees, it should be discussed in particular in such a way as to identify laws that restrict entrepreneurs, which are unnecessary. For example, in the trade law, as an example, I will state that there is an administrative fee for the statement of five crowns, and we have it in the law. I don't know what happens when it turns out it should cost ten crowns. Are we going to amend the law? We have laws where we correct one sentence and 40 laws have to be corrected for it. I see this law more as an opportunity for the inventory of those laws than for their direct digitalisation, because in my opinion, it is hopeless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u11	Thank you. With priority for the debate, the President of the TOP 09 and the starosta. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u12	Hello. Thank you for the floor. Dear Prime Minister, dear colleagues, I have listened with interest to my two previous speakers with their factual remarks. I would definitely agree with them if these two previous speakers were not representatives of the movement that has just put a huge administrative burden on entrepreneurs during this parliamentary term. If it were not for this administrative burden, which came from the workshop in particular, the Minister of Finance of Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement, and the electronic record of sales, control reports and more and more has already been mentioned here, that is, what really makes it worse today and daily and makes it difficult for the work of an ordinary businessman who does not really need tens and hundreds of new laws to do his work. He really needs the legislation to be simple, understandable. He can't pay for some expensive consulting firm or some big department, some accounting firm or other tax advisor. Some companies can actually afford this. Maybe the thinking just came from the corporations. I didn't want to start my contribution, but I did find here in this press release the Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš, who says here: 25 years have been talking about how to reduce the administrative burden on entrepreneurs, but I have not seen anything concrete from politicians. Well, you haven't seen, Minister Andrej Babiš, really, because you're the one who canceled the single collection point, that is. a place to make businessmen's lives clearly easier. It should have made it easier for them to simplify all those who submit tax returns so that they could secure all the agendas relating to the administration and payment of taxes, duties, social and health insurance. He was Minister of Finance Andrej Babiš of the ANO movement, who canceled the single collection point and did not come up with any other solution. And then we have to listen to the fact that he hasn't heard anything concrete from politicians in 25 years. Well, this is one of the concrete proposals that Minister Andrej Babiš canceled without any compensation. The fact that this amendment to the law could be said to substitute what the state administration should be doing, what the ministry should be doing, that has already been said here. If our legislative system were not actually covered by these bills, with which the ANO movement came along, we could forgive ourselves for approving this amendment. Unfortunately, the time when there was actually relatively enough time for this, the time of economic growth, which could have been devoted to looking at how we have set the system, whether it could be improved, simplified, the time that did not deal with the crisis, the time when the government coalition had a very comfortable majority, so that time was simply not used up and was literally wasted. [[16.00 hours]] I'd like to remind you of another amendment to the law that's been here for almost three years. It is an amendment from the TOP 09 workshop, which has just tried to simplify tradesmen's lives, simplifying the system of controls that is set up for them today. Today, tradesmen must undergo almost 23 different checks, or more than 20, I do not say this as a specific number. And that number is totally scary. With the businessman, the carpenter, the beautician, or the pedicurist, more than twenty different checks per year can take place. They come from hygiene, they come from firefighters, I don't know where else to go, of course the financial administration comes in when he gets some reports from some jealous neighbor. We were suggesting that the number of controls should not just shrink, but to unite. This means that for companies with fewer than ten employees, they may not have any employees, so that the checks are merged into one and the checks are carried out from the trade office. And the logic is perfectly simple. If that beautician or carpenter can learn how many operations he has to perform, so can the clerk from the trade office. This amendment hasn't been in the House for three years. We haven't discussed her in three years. And that, of course, is also the result of this government coalition. This means that today, when there is an amendment, which has been initiated by the Chamber of Commerce, we, as my fellow Member Mr Plíšek has already said, will, of course, support it. We take it as a substitute, which, at a time when we were supposed to simplify legislation, the government coalition went the other way and rather loaded the privates more, so at least with this we will try to help them find out a little bit about the flood of legislative laws, changes and various loops. I believe it will be for the benefit of our tradesmen. I believe this debate will be rational. This means, through committees, it will be done meaningfully, quickly, of course, with comments that will be factual, and that this law will still be passed during this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u13	Thank you. Mr Ivan Pilný, Mr Pavel Plzák, followed by Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u14	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to return from the political statements that we have heard here, something back to the content. The law such as EET and control reports are not about increasing the administration. They're all about paying straight taxes. The single collection point could not be cancelled because it never occurred. It was associated with huge, pointless costs that were very problematic, and any inspection would draw attention to them. If we want to unify the controls, okay, I'm sure it's appropriate that the number of checks is smaller, but I don't know how we're going to combine health and fire control. I can't imagine that very well. And with regard to the obstacles we are exposing entrepreneurs, I would just like to point out that TOP 09 voted in favour of the mandatory participation of employees in supervisory boards in all companies. When the representatives of TOP 09 perform here as those who defend free enterprise, I am really embarrassed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u15	Thank you. Mr Plzák and his factual point. After that, Mrs Šánová and Mr Kučera. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u16	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to respond directly to my previous speaker, Mr Kučera. He spooked us here, what a huge burden we put on businessmen and self-employed people. There's one thing I have to confess to him. I, as a doctor, also work as a self-employed person, and I can assure you, my colleague, through Mr President, that in the last three and a half years I have not received the only administrative burden that this government would have imposed. All the burdens have been here since communication with insurance companies, statistics, etc. It's the only thing that we stopped writing on request a certificate for the doctor's regulatory fees, and we might have an EET waiting for us, and I'm just gonna have to print a printer instead of writing a receipt by hand on the plastic plasters. So I don't know who you were talking about, but you didn't talk to me. In my case, I don't know if I live in another country or if I'm just a different category, but what you've been haunting us about doesn't concern me, don't be mad at me. And thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u17	Thank you. Mrs Šánová and her factual point. After that, Mr Kučera, with a factual remark. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u18	Hello, ladies and gentlemen. I, too, have to respond a little to my colleague Kučera's previous speaker. With the single collection point. It is true, as Mr Pilný said, that no one entered into force because it was cancelled when it was supposed to be valid. But why was it canceled? That's what we should say here, too. Because, with the introduction of a single collection point, the exemption from dividend tax, for example, was also possible at the same time. There was a tax exemption for dividends. That was an aspect because it would be an intervention in the state budget. And the next thing you know. There was a uniform VAT rate of 17.5 percent. So it's not, Mr. Kučera, just because Babiš canceled something, but it had its meaning in order for the state budget to be implemented a little bit too.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u19	Mr Kučera and his point of order. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u20	Thank you for the floor. I think it is only worth responding to the President of the Economic Committee, whose comments I am very sorry to hear. This is really the expression of a person who, now thinking about how to say this and not say it too hard, really doesn't give a damn about small businessmen and argues that we once voted for some corporations. Indeed, this is an argument which is not worthy of the Chairman of the Economic Committee. On the contrary, we were at a time of economic growth when the government coalition had a clear majority here, so it is precisely the failure of both the Finance Minister Andrej Babiš, so we can tell the economic committee that it did not come up with this environment to simplify, so that the laws that are invading the system would be removed, so that the system would start. I remember very well what the YES movement came up with at the beginning of the parliamentary term. That's exactly what I'm saying, that's where it sounded. Unfortunately, we've forgotten them by then. As a matter of fact, I remember them, but the YES movement forgot them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u21	Mr Pilný and his factual point. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't know how long Mr. Kučera has been a small businessman. I've been one since 1990 for over 20 years, and I think I know very well what people are worried about and what they need. Maybe Mr Kučera has the same experience as I do, but I speak from my experience and, of course, I defend these people uncompromisingly, not by rhetoric, but by truth.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u23	Thank you. That was the last point of fact so far. Mr Leo Luzar is now duly registered. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u24	In other words, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendment to the law tells us that in this honourable Chamber, we are adopting a large number of laws that are misunderstood for many of our citizens. In other words, it says that a group of hundreds of thousands of citizens of the Czech Republic who have decided to do business needs an attachment to each law in which an obligation is declared to a State which otherwise would be difficult to understand from this law will therefore be declared separately in a special annex. I understand the intention of the petitioners that it is probably necessary for many entrepreneurs to have a register that would automatically send them an e-mail and similar attention, on the 15th you have to pay it and this, beware, the 14th is approaching a limit to something. I understand the basic technical intention here. [[16.10 hours]] What I would see as necessary and give to the committees that will discuss this matter is that there are millions of citizens of the Czech Republic who also have legal obligations and do not know what to do. I will not speak as a teacher, they have a professional chamber, they have health care professionals, but also for ordinary citizens not gathered anywhere in any chambers, yet here we adopt laws that affect them. I can talk about the road bill, other dozens of laws that have some connection to the duty they have to perform. Yet we leave them in the open space without any electronic communication, that these citizens could sign up to the state and also send me information every day when there is an obligation, but I am only a citizen, I am not a member of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Agriculture. I'd also like to know which obligation of which law belongs to me so that I can do it as a citizen. I consider this to be quite a serious problem. And so, if we take this issue as a fact, then all the laws adopted by our Chamber of Deputies should be accompanied by such an attachment that removes these obligations and thus allows us to process, perhaps commercially, a system, a database, a register where the citizen could obtain this information. In other words, I think that such a register probably exists, or the Ministry of Justice has already announced in its time that it is working on such registers so that every citizen within some kind of e-right, e-regulation, etc. may have obtained this information. That is why I also ask the petitioners this question to deal with it, why only a group of citizens, yes, perhaps the most burdened laws, pull out of it and allow them to keep this register and other citizens unconscious and need to hire lawyers and services of expensive lawyers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u25	Thank you. With Mrs Zuzana Šánová's factual comment, then with priority rights, the appellant. Please, madam.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u26	Hello again. Once again, I would like to see you through to my colleague Kučer. If I remember correctly, it was in the position of Minister of Finance, Mr Kalousek, who took away the possibility that he might be small, the CFI, they could deduct social and health insurance from their income and the tax amendment in 2008. If you really meant it and wanted to be the change - for the change, because it's the order of 20-25,000 a year - beating, then the first one that was, you've already suggested that it be returned to them.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u27	Thank you. Mr. Zbyněk Stanjura, with priority rights. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u28	I'll do my formal duty first. I have two proposals to shorten the deadline between first and second readings, namely 20 days and 30 days. Here is a chance for us to reduce significantly the costs they pay to micro and small enterprises in order to navigate the rule of law. So this is a chance to do it together. I take the government's position seriously. I must say that under this bill, the two vice-premieres of this government are signed. I think that the Economic Committee will deal with this and that it will also take into account the Government's position in the course of the negotiations. That's all in my position. Just a request that we really let it go and deal with it on the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u29	Thank you. Mr. Chairman of the ČSSD Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u30	Thank you for the floor. I understand the proposal to shorten the time limits. The end of the term is coming up. I will also propose, for example, a shortening of the deadline in the social housing law tomorrow, but it is still 20 days too short a time to discuss the committee, so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on behalf of the Social Democracy and YES 2011 I am raising the veto against the 20-day deadline.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-05-16-ps2013-057-01-001-198.u31	I'm registering this veto. We will therefore only vote on the reduction of the deadline to 30 days. This has been the last one entered into the general debate so far. If no one else is reporting, I am ending the general debate. I'm asking for final words. Not interested. And since I do not see the motion to return the motion put forward to the appellant for the completion of the rejection, we will deal with the proposal for a committee's order for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposed proposal to be discussed by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the commandment to the Economic Committee as a guarantee. I've started the vote. Anyone in favor, raise your hand, press the button. Who's against it? It is a 38 vote, 143 Members and Members registered, for 121, against none. The motion was accepted. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to any other committee. Does anyone else have a proposal for another committee? It's not like that. We will therefore vote on the last proposal and that is the proposal to shorten the deadline by 30 days to 30 days. Initiating vote on a proposal to shorten the deadline. All in favor, raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? It is a 39 vote, 152 Members of Parliament are registered, for 103, against 10. The motion was accepted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a guarantee and the deadline has been reduced to 30 days. I'm ending reading this bill first. I thank both the appellant and the rapporteur. The next item is:
