ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u1	63. Government Bill on University Hospitals and Amendment to Certain Acts (University Hospitals Act) /German Press 1054/ - First Reading I ask the Minister of Health to give us the proposal.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am here to introduce a government bill on university hospitals and to amend certain laws, in short, the law on university hospitals. From the director's own experience, I can confirm that our faculty hospitals need a better and more timely legislative framework than the one in which they work so far. Faculty hospitals form the backbone network of our medical facilities, where patients receive top-level health care at the highest level. I therefore consider it my duty to help them create optimal conditions for the most transparent and efficient management possible. Let me start by talking about what legal framework and what legislation the faculty hospitals are operating in at the moment. [[Part of the Members are leaving, there is a high level of noise in the hall.]] Faculty hospitals function as a state contribution organization, and this legislation is now generally considered to be generally inadequate, both in terms of governance and management. The management of the State contribution organisation is governed in principle by the same rules as the management of the State's organisational component -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u3	Minister, I am very sorry. I'm asking the debaters in the crowds to move out of the meeting room. Thank you and you may proceed.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u4	Thank you. - which does not correspond to the legal nature and purpose of the state contribution organization. In contrast to the organisational component of the State, the State contribution organisation is a legal entity and is normally not established for the purpose of the public administration but for the purpose of the public service activities. Today, the failings of a state contribution organisation in the field of health services are most prominent in the management of faculty hospitals. In short, a state contribution organization as such can function perfectly and work in the field of culture, regional theatre management or district libraries, but it is very difficult to work for organisations that have a turnover of between CZK 2.5 billion and CZK 8 billion and employ thousands of employees. Basically, the basic principle of the contribution organization is that e.g. If you have a theatre that has a turnover of CZK 50 million, it will receive CZK 10 million on the proceeds from the admission fee, so the state will make a contribution of CZK 40 million. There's only one exception in that law, and it concerns the income from public health insurance. In other words, hospitals are essentially not entitled to this contribution from the State. Frankly, from time to time, you all know the situation when once every two years, the Minister of Health comes to the Minister of Finance in three years and asks for a refill of several hundred million to billion crowns to make the hospitals that get into financial trouble work again. This legislation that we are proposing should be one of the solutions to this situation. At this point, when I consider the shortcomings in the current legislation on the functioning of hospitals, I can say that it is both in the management of property, which, at this point in time, is essentially not able to use in any way, for example. rent. If I give an example today typical, the lease of energy services, which today is the biggest hit that the hospital can bring to save up to hundreds of millions of crowns, is not possible because the management of state property is strictly limited for eight years. The minimum effective time for the operation of this matter today is 10 to 12 years. Basically impossible. Furthermore, the financing regulation of the state contribution organization does not correspond at all to the current method of financing the activities of the faculty hospital. I'll just give one little example for all of them. If the faculty hospital wants to get a linear accelerator today, which is a matter of cancer treatment that costs CZK 100 million - depends on the manufacturer, but no one can get it cheaper today - so they have to take the 100 million and pay it in total. Cash. Maybe she can't even take a lease. She can't tell any company: rent it to us for ten years with ten million-dollar payments so that we can deal with it at all. She has to take $100 million today, and she has to pay for it. It is simply because the current law does not allow a state contribution organization to take leases at all. [[15.10 hours]] Furthermore, at this point, the hospital doesn't even have a chance to finance itself otherwise, because the moment it gets to the minus, it has no way of covering for some time the outage of funds if the health insurance companies stop paying. I would say that there really are a number of shortcomings, only after such absurdity as the fact that today a faculty hospital cannot lend a patient medical equipment. When you take the latest hit that exists in this area, it's a homemade artificial pulmonary ventilation, which is actually a ventilator, a matter not cheap, today a faculty hospital can't lend it to a patient home simply because it's state property and has to offer it first to another state institution. Absurd, but real. Today, when a faculty hospital gets cars - a truck, an ambulance, anything else - do you know that it's legally forbidden to insure? It's because the law doesn't allow a state contribution organization to close an emergency insurance policy. If someone steals the car, the hospital is unlucky. There's a lot of nonsense like that in the law. I can further name e.g. It's that, basically, the law makes it impossible to research today. The hospital cannot produce intellectual property. I'll do it again. In Motola, a vaccine was prepared for cervical cancer, later ovarian cancer, prostate cancer. It's a very sophisticated matter where the hospital has developed some sort of procedure in basic research. Of course, in the next phase of the clinical trial, the hospital doesn't have the money. She was trying to sell it, or actually hand it over to the company that it was developing with. She can't. Just because today hospitals have to offer property, or not property, but intellectual property, another state organization. There's basically no other way. I could go on and on like this, but basically, as far as funding is concerned, when it comes to operating those hospitals on the market, they're swimming in this kind of protective aquarium that they can't get out of, and the aquarium is dragging them down more and more. Next thing I know, I need to talk about the management system. I am sometimes accused that this law is like Lex Ludvík, that I do it for myself as director of the hospital. But it's more like lex Antilles, because frankly, today the law, as it is introduced and as it is presented here, sets the conditions for hospital management in a much harder and tightening way. Today, the hospital is run by a director who is more or less a monocratic body that theoretically has no limits. In theory, he can do whatever he wants today, and basically there's only one threat to him, and the Minister of Health is calling him off for no reason. But other than that, at this point, he's gonna make a loss, theoretically going on. He's leading the hospital in some direction, which may even lure patients away - the hospital's moving on. And it depends on the political constellation whether or not the director is dismissed. That will no longer be possible in this case. The hospital will have two independent bodies that balance each other - it will be the director and it will be the board of directors - who will control each other and cooperate with each other. And above them, it will still be established by the Ministry of Finance and newly attached by the Ministry of Finance on account of financial issues. I am sometimes accused that this matter, as the law is built today, will lead to privatisation of hospital property. Well, nothing is further from the truth. Today it is basically that if the hospital has unnecessary property, it has to mark it and then hand it over to the State Representation Office in property matters. He'll do something about it. He'll probably offer it to another state institution. There's no such thing as seeing anything from the hospital. I read in the list what the problem will be with the Brno matter. [[List?]] Who knows the situation in Brno, you know there's an old, old obstetrician in the centre of Brno at the Crop Market today. And within the framework of government-approved strategic investments, a new hospital in Bohunice is to be built, and the old one is to be sold in some way. I already told you at the Treasury Department, no one's gonna sell it. It is simply not sold because this very valuable construction in the very lucrative part of Brno will be offered to another state institution and some state institution will definitely marry it. I don't want to name any institutions, there's a whole series of them where you have to do your bidding duty now if you want to get rid of some property. But basically, this is how it's gonna go down today. On the other hand, when I speak from my own experience, the Motol hospital in the 1990s acquired three kindergarten schools in Prague. One in Prague 13, one in Prague 8 and one in Prague 10. Really old kindergarten objects. What about it? It would be normal to sell the three kindergartens, the revenue would be around CZK 50 million, and a new intensive care unit would stand up in Motol for that. This would be a great way to deal with the property. Anyway, when I hear these complaints about how university hospitals' assets are going to get tangled up, there's one more important thing I'd like to stress. These hospitals are set up by a law similar to that established by public universities. And as Rector Zima said today at the press conference, no one sold it to Karolinum. And the exact same thing is going to be a big problem, or almost impossible to get rid of property in the case of university hospitals, because there will be three bodies that will deal with it gradually - the director, the board of directors, the founding ministries are still included there. So I just have to cut back on the rumors that are going on here. Generally speaking, in order to draw close to a conclusion and open up the opportunity to debate, this law essentially requires a number of things. First of all, abandon the inappropriate and surviving status of a state contribution organization and switch to a new model of governance and management of an organisation that corresponds to the size and tasks of today's faculty hospitals. Frankly, a lot of the model that works in Western Europe is getting closer. Secondly, and this is very important to maintain the backbone network of hospitals that provide the highest quality health care in all the fields needed, not just in the lucrative ones, as is the case with some private establishments. The law also addresses problematic points of cooperation between the university and the hospital. Furthermore, university hospitals will have easier management and greater economic freedom from the point of view of legal regulation, but at the same time they will be supervised by a board that will always be composed of representatives of the government, which is the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance, from university representatives and from employees representatives. There is no way that there is such a wide representation of the proceedings in today's faculty hospitals. Basically, the statutory body will continue to be appointed and recalled by the Minister of Health, which is like today, but there will be much more precise conditions for the statutory body, which will be responsible for its entire assets, to be able to manage the hospital in some way to rule out the risk of moral gambling that is there today. An important thing to be said here. These university hospitals will be set up and repealed by law. Today we have faculty hospitals run by one decree. Basically, it doesn't have a legal regulation or a proper legal framework on how these giants work. At this point, we will establish an exact number of faculty hospitals by law. To be absolutely precise, this concerns the University Hospital Brno, the Faculty Hospital Hradec Králové, the Faculty Hospital Králové, the Faculty Hospital Králové, the Faculty Hospital Olomouc, the Faculty Hospital Ostrava, the Faculty Hospital Pilsen, the Faculty Hospital St. Anna in Brno, Faculty Hospital in Motol and General University Hospital in Prague. Furthermore, a Central Military Hospital will be established - the Military Faculty Hospital Prague, which is to become a military university hospital, but will remain a state contribution organization due to the contributions that go there from the Ministry of Defence. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of my exposé, I would like to say one thing. It's new. It is an attempt, for the first time, to adjust the management of organizations that have a turnover of over CZK 50 billion and employ several tens of thousands of people. It is an effort to get them into some legal framework and somehow set rules for their management. I would like to stress that I will in no way request a shortening of any terms of discussion. I think this is a typical bill that needs a broad discussion, needs to be discussed. I will be very happy to see it released for second reading, precisely because I think this is a bill that has to be discussed in some way and has to have as broad a public consensus as possible. That is why I will be very happy, ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow this bill to be read again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u5	Thank you, Minister. I ask the rapporteur for the first reading, which is Mr Rostislav Vyzula.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u6	Good afternoon, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Let me, as rapporteur, comment on this new government proposal to set up university hospitals. First of all, given that I have more than 20 years of learning experience at university, I am aware that the relations between the faculty hospital at present and the university, or, more precisely, the medical faculty, are such a special artifact, I would say the relic of the past that once arose and that it really should have straightened out. These efforts are not unique with us, they are also abroad. They were abroad, for example. Germany has dealt with this quite well, even if university hospitals have to subsidize enough. On the other hand, some countries find this difficult to deal with, e.g. Austria, when it becomes an absurd situation that the university hospital originally wants to separate itself from the university and is then independent, because the university may speak too much to it, or simply because they do not agree with each other. As you can see, it's not a simple matter. Even in the world, it hasn't been sufficiently resolved. We only deal with it in my experience for over 20 years, more or less sometimes with some result, sometimes with no result. We know well that this proposal was here during the last parliamentary term and that it was not even discussed in the end. We need to realise that existing faculty hospitals provide highly specialised health care and carry out research and development activities. On the basis of the requirements of the university, there is clinical and practical instruction in accredited study programmes of general medicine, dental medicine, pharmacy, education programmes of non-medical medical disciplines and related research and development activities. The legal form of an existing contribution organisation does not allow the creation of the necessary conditions for the activities of faculty hospitals, especially in the area of management, management and cooperation with universities. The corresponding legislation is missing in particular in the case of the establishment and management of joint workplaces and the financing of teaching in faculty hospitals. It is a standard that is certainly interesting, and in the end it is good that it got on the program, although in the government declaration originally there was the establishment of nonprofit hospitals, a backbone network that would provide equal care for every citizen of our republic, every patient. Now it's just kind of narrowed it down to university hospitals. Still, it's a good thing the standard's getting here. I'm not saying he's totally okay. The problems here have already been outlined by the Minister, and it would be good for us to discuss them in committees. I can outline some of them. I've prepared ten little thoughts here. Just a short cut. For example, how will universities pay for teaching in hospitals? Those universities will have to finance teaching on the basis of a hospital contract. They are currently receiving funds, but they are not using them to do so. Now they should probably get a raise. I don't know, but it's a thought. Another consideration is - they are experts in the so-called ones - it is the board of directors, in fact it is the board of the university hospital. There'll be seven members on each board, we've got ten hospitals, we've got seventy people. Do we have the experts? If we do, okay. Then the issue of so-called debt is discussed repeatedly. I don't think it's as simple as the Minister sees it, even though he's an economist and he sees it more than I do, but I still can't figure out how hospitals deal with it. Consider the fact that out of ten university hospitals, approximately one third thrives very well, with profit, one third is in such a positive zero, but one third is repeatedly lossy over the long term. And the debts aren't small, they're not in millions, they're in tens or hundreds of millions of crowns. And now we think that if we make a law on university hospitals, maybe from January 1st next year, when the law should work, that hospital will become instantly unlossy, that it will manage at least with a positive zero? I doubt it. Yes, he will be able to take a loan, this time a state loan, with some interest for a certain period of maturity. But even if he has the loan and he tries to keep it balanced, he's not gonna get out of it that fast anyway. And there will be cases where hospitals repeatedly get into the next debt, they will borrow again when they get into the debt trap. And that's a dangerous area from several pages. There is talk of debt being - I was convinced that such long - term debts that are needed in some hospitals today reaching a billion, or even more than a billion, mean nothing. Now, the hospital can't go bankrupt, but when it's a new legal standard, won't it make it easier for it to go bankrupt? Won't it be easier to sell, or just privatize, or sell for a whole other purpose? We keep saying patients won't be involved. Yes, it won't be, if everything goes well under ideal conditions, it won't. Patients won't feel it at all. But what if some of this hospital is just being sold, privatized, and doesn't provide health care in the future? Then the patients will feel it. Anyway, the hospitals will be cut off, that's understandable. But the risk of privatization is still here, and it needs to be specified. Another question, another consideration, is what will happen with investment. We all know that current contributory hospitals receive investment funds to reconstruct hospitals or build something, improve it. We also know very well, and I think that each of us has the experience that when we get to some hospitals, we find that their construction situation is in a detachable state. It's desperate. They desperately need repairs. Some are on a level, I'm not afraid to say it, Austria-Hungary. I'm bohužel so. We need to reconstruct our hospitals in an important way, especially these. It's the family silver, it's the best hospitals we have, and you should be pampering yourself. [[15.30 hours]] Plus the loans from the state. Germany, as I said, deals with repeated payments. Austria is dealing with this because hospitals are actually pulling away from universities, and the problem is not completely solved. We must also realise that today's prosperous hospital does not mean that tomorrow will also be prosperous. She can be thriving today and not prospering tomorrow. And that's certainly not easy to solve. As far as privatisation is concerned, that's what I'm talking about. Now there's been a bit of talk about property. I am also asked, and I would like it to be as the Minister says. But we have to realize that hospital management can be good, it can be decent, it can be such that it has in mind and on the heart the good of its hospital, but we know well from life that some management is not decent and does not manage as it should, and can in that case, even if there are several levels of approval to sell off property, there can be a sale of property to entities with unfair intentions. I don't know, but life brings problems, and we should discuss this properly. One more thing that may be on the edge, but not entirely. I think it has something to do with the fact that many of our people, namely school workers, are also involved in research hospitals and participate in research in varying degrees. Research may be basal, but it may also be classical clinical research. In the case of clinical research, if the university does not agree with the hospital, then any earnings, which is always some for clinical research, because it is both good to do research, and it is good for patients, but it is also a certain source of finance, so in the event that these two entities do not agree with each other, so according to Section 20 their profit shares are the same, which I do not think today's academics would just keep easily. So you can see for yourself that there are more questions. I only picked a few. I believe that other people who move here in the House around health care see other problems or benefits. I'm not saying the law has its advantages, and in some ways it's well set up, for example, when it comes to dismissing the director of the hospital. That won't be for the sake of one person who gets a bad night's sleep in the morning and says, "I'm gonna fire the principal," and he could have fired him for no reason. Now such a thing won't be possible. But you see, there are more problems here. Therefore, I recommend to support at first reading and to encourage the Committee on Health to be discussed, but also to the Education Committee. And I believe that even then, in the committees, we will fine-tune what I think has been set up a little too quickly. But maybe it won't. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. Good afternoon, everyone. And I am now opening up a general debate in which these Members have come forward: the first to be heard by Mrs Soňa Marková, will be prepared by Mr Tomio Okamura. You have the floor, Madame.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear members of the government, colleagues and colleagues, let me comment on this bill from the position of the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. The aim of the proposal is, according to the petitioner, to anchor a new form of legal entity, university hospital, with the fact that the current state contribution organisation no longer complies with the current method of financing the activities of health service providers, whose founder is the state, as well as the clinical and practical teaching of university students. University hospitals are supposed to be ten and are listed in the bill. The Minister did so. The draft law has been approved by the government on 8 March and is already under discussion. It is a pity that Parliament's proposals, which lie here for a year, two or more, are not treated similarly quickly, and the government coalition refuses to discuss them. I will mention at least two cases - designs from the KSČM workshop. Cancellation of the deadline. He passed to dismiss after more than a year, and only through so-called. opposition windows and to this day we are waiting for a promised government proposal. And the proposal for regular valorisation of payments for state insured persons, which is also waiting for a hearing for more than a year, although stabilization and predictability of public health income is certainly more important than the amendment currently under discussion. Why can't the bill be supported? In its programming declaration, the Government undertook to present a law on public non-profit hospitals in the course of 2015, which will allow for their more transparent and efficient management. And this is the result of this government's efforts in the spring of 2017. It should be added that the comment procedure has been shortened and an analysis of the economic impact has not been drawn up, so-called RIA. Why did the Ministry of Health not present a proposal on non-profit health care facilities on time and why haven't this been solved by the problems of practice that the Minister of Health has been so captivating and long told about, the problems that the faculty hospitals are facing today? Unfortunately, we did not learn that in his opening words. In this bill, it is in a way a transfer of state property of CZK 60 billion with an annual turnover of CZK 100 billion. The trade unions and other critics of this standard speak of inconspicuous privatisation in quotation marks. In fact, it will be the biggest breakout of health care property in the last 20 years. University hospitals will become independent entities that will not automatically be entitled to contracts with health insurance companies, as originally foreseen by the Act on non-profit health establishments, and we supported this law as the Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia. We were at the birth of this law in past parliamentary periods and would support such a bill now. University hospitals will be responsible for all management and will not be able to rely on the help of the state. Already today some faculty hospitals are in a multimillion-dollar loss, namely the Hospital at St. Anne's or Royal Vinohrady. And from university rectors who otherwise welcome the creation of a law on university hospitals, there is a demand for debt, which the Ministry of Health does not count on. The question arises as to whether university hospitals will not be looking for a financial partner in the event of financial difficulties and thus cannot open up the possibility of privatisation. According to some, the sale of lucrative properties in centers and the subsequent transfer of these hospitals to the outskirts of cities are also at risk. While the government has to approve the sale today, according to this bill, only the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Finance can do so. [[15.40 hours]] The fact that the proposal establishes the definition of university hospitals also gives rise to some concern, but the Czech rule of law does not define the general concept of the hospital, its structure, function and division of activities between different types of facilities. This miserable condition has lasted since 2012, when the right-wing government of that time was abruptly abolished by the People's Health Care Act and replaced without proper consultation by three other laws - the Health Services Act, the Health Services Act and the Health Rescue Act. Hospitals that will not be university will continue to be included among providers without distinction, whether it is an ambulance with one doctor or a regional hospital, which may in some case be even larger than a university hospital. The Ministry of Health has long not dealt with the need to legally define the concept of a hospital, structure and basic network, which could possibly include university hospitals. The critics of the proposal also talk about the uncertainty and weakening of other hospitals, where, in addition to providing health care, specialization of lifelong learning takes place. According to the law, other non-university hospitals would not be able to carry out teaching even though they have performed it so far. One of the negatives of this proposal can also be the consolidation of the position of current directors of faculty hospitals. So far, the Minister of Health can call off the director of the faculty hospital at any time. I'm not saying that's right. The Director of the University Hospital can only be called off by the Minister for special reasons and on the basis of the three-quarter approval of the Board, which will run the University Hospital. Another point at issue is the fact that the long-disputed - and you remember it for sure - the register of contracts has not been excluded from the faculty hospitals, but of course university hospitals are not there. For this reason university hospitals will be in obvious advantage against hospitals of other founders. There are a lot of points and questions at issue, and it shows that, in my view, this hot needle-sewn bill can be difficult to improve in the course of further discussions into the form promised by the government's programming declaration. If the only reason for the adoption of this law should be the fact that they do not know the notion of a faculty hospital to the west of the Czech Republic, only the notion of a university hospital, as Mr. Rector Zima claims in current statements and media outputs, would be very little to support this bill. I also listened to the TOP 09 press conference today, and I was interested in the fact that they support this law, because in many ways it is said that it resembles Mr Heger's proposal by the former Minister of Health. In my opinion, this should be a warning to the current Minister of Health that something is not right. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u9	Thank you, Madame. Now I'll read the apology. Mr Stanislav Grospič apologizes from the meeting on 25 April from 17 a.m. to the end of the day for personal reasons. I am now giving the floor to Mr Tomio Okamur and Mr Leoš Heger will be prepared. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, the government proposal on university hospitals is intended to address two problems that are long-term. In fact, however, this law will allow, above all, the transfer of state property and its lower protection. The first problem is defining cooperation between a hospital, which is a state contribution organisation, and a medical faculty. I agree that the current situation is problematic because it limits the influence of universities on the operation of hospitals. It's really two independent subjects. The second problem of today's faculty hospitals is their management. The reason for often loss-making management is both the course of teaching and the level of hospital management. So the government has put forward a law that states that it will solve these problems. Unfortunately, I am convinced that it will not solve and, on the contrary, it will create these problems. The existing practice of cooperation between the state contribution organisation and the faculty has been going on for many years and I believe that we can improve it while maintaining the nature of the state contribution organisation. The State can easily impose duties, activities and tasks on its organisations. Relations with universities can be dealt with by contract and the State could significantly influence the scope of contractual cooperation. It is an illusion that cooperation will resolve the participation of university representatives on the Board of Directors under the Government Bill. It won't. Even more amusing in quotation marks is the idea that university hospitals will gain quality management and management. The problem with hospital management isn't that it's a state organization. The primary problem with the level of management of faculty hospitals is the fact that their management affects various party-godfather mobs. The new bill is precisely sewn for these mobs. First of all, it brings huge state property into the hands of an organization which, in my view, does not have a clear and responsible owner, and it also reduces its protection. The sale of assets, if any, so-called university hospitals will only be dealt with at the Ministry's consent level. The question is open: How will any loss management be dealt with? The state doesn't guarantee, so who's going to solve the financial loss? It is a question of whether universities will not get under the pressure of financial requirements for the efficiency of university hospitals' operation. This may have a negative impact on the extent and quality of the doctor's preparation. First of all, the transfer of state property and its lower protection is a fundamental reason why Members of our movement Freedom and Direct Democracy, the SPD, will not support the bill. We will not support the emergence of hospitals, where the owner will replace a strange ownership form that is a front for political-economic and lobbyist interests. The idea of our movement is different. We want to maintain the influence and control of the state in the field of health care covered by statutory insurance. Faculty hospitals in the form of state contribution organisations should cooperate with universities on the basis of contractual relationships guaranteed by the State and should establish the backbone of a network of hospitals providing affordable and high-quality health care covered by legal health insurance.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u11	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Leoš Heger is enrolled in the general debate and Mr Ludvík Hovorka will be prepared. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u12	Thank you for the floor. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will be the bill tabled, which Minister Ludvík has commented, promoted and defended here. I will not comment at this moment on the reservations that have been raised here, but I cannot forgive myself for commenting on Mrs Marková's final words, who said here that my support for the law makes things suspicious. I hope I don't have a suspect file on the KSČM secretariat, because it's been here in this country before, and I hope it doesn't come back. To this law of yours, please have a few fundamental views on things, a view of such a macroscopic one, which needs to be presented here too. The specific things that this law deals with have already been listed here and I will be happy to have the opportunity to discuss them in the committees. But here I would just like to say the essential thing. The law comes into the first reading in the Chamber of Deputies a little late, and from the perspective of the government's programming statement, it is a kind of incomplete substitute for the plan to return to the game the Act on Nonprofit Diseases, which was intended to define the backbone network of hospitals in the Czech Republic and replace the failed law of former Minister Rath. The law of Minister Rath was first reviled by the Constitutional Court's decision and then abolished at the time of Nečasův' reign. However, the law now presented by Minister Ludvík, the law on university hospitals, despite the speed of emergence and despite harsh criticism across political ideologies is worth discussing and at least releasing for second reading. [[15.50 hours]] As has already been done here, the government in which I acted as Minister of Health had prepared a law that was relatively similar to the current one. The existing one carries some adjustments that are for discussion, but the fundamental principles that we wanted to implement remain in it, and they are principles that would be very positive for our health system. The main effect of the new law will be the removal of faculty hospitals. And there are a number of reasons for this step and for the whole law. I would like to mention here four fundamental areas which characterize the law and represent the main reasons. Firstly, I will talk about the possibility of the Ministry of Health managing about one quarter of the budget of the Ministry of Health in a direct way, as companies do. This is very difficult and I will comment on it. Secondly, and this has already been mentioned by Minister Ludvík, the current state is causing a very typical moral hazard due to the very nature of the state's contribution organization. Thirdly, I will try to explain why this procedure is such that a special law arises, because there is no general law on a public economic organisation that would be useful in this case. Fourthly, I will talk about some of the internal fundamental problems that are within faculty hospitals in relation to medical faculties and how this proposal solves them and why it solves them. So first of all, about the possibility of the Ministry of Health running the entire huge subsystem directly managed by the organizations. The Ministry of Health is not able to manage such a giant subsystem, not because it is incompetent, but because it does not have the tools. The question is whether it is worth creating something like a gigantic Directorate-General or a holding directorate in the face of civil servants, or whether it is better to give those organisations at least partial autonomy. The tools at the Ministry's disposal are really the highest available subsidies and remuneration of hospital directors, respectively. their failure to grant, and, of course, also the appeal of the Director, and these are instruments that are very rude. The management of decapitated public hospitals with higher responsibilities for themselves should be of great benefit to things, as is evident in a variety of different configurations of university hospitals abroad. In every country, it's a little different, but in the vast majority, they dominate, at least in Europe, those publicly beneficial nonprofit organizations. I would like to point out that the intervention is rather radical, but that the entire huge package of directly managed organizations is made up of current faculty hospitals, which should be transformed, only one-sixth of the Ministry's established organisations, which would be freed from direct government and would remain under his freer supervision in the field of direct control and control of serious decision-making in the context of the participation of the Ministry of Health and, as proposed, the Ministry of Finance in the governing bodies. However, this first step, the removal of only a part directly managed by organisations, would not have to remain the last in the future and could later be gradually extended to other organisations, which are, in addition to faculty hospitals and other major hospitals, such as for example. IKEM and others, which I will not name everyone here, but also large hospitals such as psychiatric hospitals and other institutions. So he's really a kind of pilot step that could later be alienated and could extend to all direct-controlled organizations if they weren't, for example. transferred to regional organizations, which might suit some hospitals, and the whole logic of our relationship with national and regional health care would probably benefit too. To the second of the points I've named as chief, to the moral hazard. The most important benefit of the new law is the fact that the proposal is abolishing the mechanism that has so far allowed for the impenetrable debt relief of directly managed hospitals. We know that the former Minister Němeček last delayed the hospital at St. Anne's in Brno at the age of two and a total of three quarters of a billion crowns. It's just to make us realize what the debting means. Over the past 20 years, the state budget has been worth debting hospitals, which have been in about five different waves, and it has not only been state hospitals, but also hospitals transferred to the county, covering the state budget at the level of many billions of crowns, and there have been very few of all state hospitals that have never had to be indebted. The obligation of the State as a founder in possible negative management, or at least the political responsibility of the hospital to subsidize, has been the main cause of economic moral hazard until now, as I mentioned, while under the new law, university hospitals will have higher powers, but also, in particular, higher responsibilities, including the responsibility to preserve de facto their existence. We don't think any of the faculty hospitals, in the future, are going to fail. And who knows a little about the academic situation, knows what very prestigious mechanisms play a role there. So it is also very strong to point out that the withdrawal of universities in the 1990s, and thus the elimination of moral gambling, did not result in any bankruptcy at either public university. The Minister mentioned this, and it is not really necessary to anticipate it even in future university hospitals. [[16.00 hours]] The third area, the reason why there is a special law on a public economic organisation, should not be a criticism of this law. First, the bill is now based on the Institute of Public Institution under the new Civil Code, which amends. At the same time, however, it must be said loudly that, at some point since 2000, the commitment of the State, namely the Ministry of Finance, to adopt a general law on a non-profit-making legal person, but none of the Finance Ministers, or existing ones, indicates that such a law should be considered a priority. I will add that no chaos and haste in the preparation of the law had to be, because the skeleton of the proposal was really prepared and discussed very thoroughly already in 2013 and the Ministry of Health was well prepared to complete and edit some of the details that had now taken place. When Mrs Marková asked why the law did not come about earlier, since it is now so necessary, in quotation marks, I must say that, of course, not everyone likes the law, because not everyone really wants to have it - and I think it can be said about the director of the faculty hospital - more responsibility for what they are doing. So the Ministry, controlled by Minister Němeček, did not have this priority and it is good that it won it for Minister Julínek. I must stress once again that we have more public non-profit organisations of a special type, and besides what Minister Ludvík has already quoted here, two least public spheres can be named, which are close to health, where ad hoc non-profit organisations work well. He's already mentioned the sphere of education. It relates to universities, but therefore actually an executive element in our context of medical faculties. The second sphere of nonprofit organization ad hoc de facto represents also the General Health Insurance Company. There have been no predictions of the risk of privatization or theft of property in any of this area, so it is possible to deal with how it is seen, as well as with the special, ad hoc laws prepared for the medical sphere. The last point about the problems that the law will be dealing with will be shorter. It concerns internal problems of faculty hospitals and medical faculties. The benefit of the proposal is to eliminate the tension between health care needs and the academic sphere, namely medical faculties in the academic sphere. The double-trackness of faculty hospital workers who have, and this concerns especially clinic bosses, who are key departments in faculty hospitals and stay in university, so those head clinics have two separate bosses today. The director of the hospital and as part of his part of the medical faculty dean of the medical faculty. More and more often, these two entities agree, but sometimes it is very difficult, and the law essentially establishes the agreement as a mandatory agreement so that the new departments of the university hospital can function. Things remain unfinished. This has already been discussed by the rapporteur Vyzula. In the current proposal, for example, the issue of registration and reimbursement of shared working hours between two employers, hospitals and the medical faculty remained unresolved. A number of other problems here are next to the double-track, minor problems in HR and so on. Some have already been removed, but there is at least sufficient room for both parties to address the remaining problems almost compulsory, but especially creatively, within the framework of a contract between the hospital and the faculty that will have to be. I'm not going to continue the list of reasons for the law. I said the essentials. And I'm just saying that turning faculty hospitals into university hospitals would be a very positive contribution to increasing the effectiveness of our health care. A state-controlled hospital has no strong incentive to behave rationally and manage its own responsibilities. And it's not just top management. It also applies to individual clinics that behave very differently in this sphere, and hospital management, top managers, it adds a lot of work. The increased responsibility will include de facto the responsibility of individual clinical centres, which, if they do not accept it, could also lose its opportunities. The hospital's leadership is easily subject to political influence, the Minister has already indicated it here, and I must say that the ministers, if diplomatically speaking, have behaved very differently in the past. Nationalisation and taking full responsibility from hospitals is therefore highly desirable. But as always, the devil is hidden in detail, and I will mention only one which will also be good to discuss. The relationship of the faculty, respectively. University hospital to the relevant region is one of those things that is not completely well solved in our system and leads to frequent double tracks. Easily there are competitive and competent disputes, and the law could indicate their solution if at least one representative was in the university hospital's bodies for the region concerned, if there is a faculty or university hospital in it. I repeat, therefore, that I think that the proposal deserves to be released for second reading, where all these problems can be discussed very extensively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr Ludvík Hovorka is entered into the general debate and Mr Jiří Štětina will be prepared.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u14	Mr Vice-President, thank you for the floor. Dear ministers, dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I remember the period from 2006 to 2010. I remember then the opposition of the academic community to the law on university stock companies, although it is true that the resistance was stronger in the Prague part of the academic community. In the Brno part he was weaker and it was because the Brno academic community was under Damoklův' sword to continue or stop financing the university campus. At the time, I had a visit from Minister Julínek, who asked me: what's bothering you about the law on university stock companies? I said to him: I hate that universities get 34 percent of the shares while the state keeps 66 percent, but of course the state can sell it at any time. He says we'll make a deal and put in five years that the state's shares won't be able to sell. I say: but what will happen in five years, Minister? He says, well, we'll put in 20 years. I say, but in 20 years, the problem will be exactly the same. He got angry and said to me: well, if that's the case, we won't talk to you about it at all, and we'll privatize those hospitals under the Law of Great Privatization. Indeed, the privatisation projects were being processed during the given period and only in fact the coalition negotiations, when KDU opposed, at that time the prime minister stopped preparing privatization directly managed by the organization, and the matter was then called off. [[16.10 hours]] I'm going back to that because the law is definitely not new. Some of this law also appears in the present law. However, I believe that it is too late for such a fundamental law, which means changing the legal form. To present this proposal a few months before the end of the parliamentary term, I think it is not very happy. I also consider the comment procedure to be too short. I want to ask why the law on university hospitals does not solve the biggest problems of these hospitals, which is the problem cooperation between the medical faculties and the faculty hospitals themselves, i.e. the double-trackity, when almost every doctor is paid and administered by someone else, or one doctor is paid partly by the faculty and partly by the hospital. That's what I think is the biggest problem that currently exists in faculty hospitals. The reason report does not exactly say that the law will not have a financial impact because the state will lose more than 60 billion. The crown of property to be transferred to university hospitals. The financial balance of the management is to be provided by the State through the state budget, i.e. the Ministry of Finance. However, the law does not have a sanction against managers or members of the Board of the University Hospital for any poor, deficit management except for a declaration that a member of the Board of the University Hospital, the Director and so on are obliged to deal with the necessary knowledge. Balance sheet imbalances, therefore, the deficit in the economy must be financially secured by the Ministry of Finance. On the Board of the University Hospital, however, the Ministry of Finance has only one representative and his appeal is still within the competence of the Minister of Health. This law reminiscent significantly of some of the problem laws in 2008. There's an obvious imbalance in the state of competence. There are also more options for solutions, such as a significant strengthening of the Ministry of Finance's competences or a waiver of the state's guarantee to ensure balance sheet balance in the management of university hospitals. By the way, this applies in so far applicable legislation on the management of faculty hospitals and the delegation of this obligation to managers and members of the Board of University Hospitals. I want to ask some questions, such as what will happen to other state hospitals, those other contribution organisations that are not the subject of this bill. Furthermore, I would like to ask what the Ministry of Health has done in this term to improve the management of directly managed hospitals. To achieve the mobilisation of funds then, I think, from the surplus of the State Institute for Drug Control to the University Hospital at St. Anna and Bulovka Hospital in the range of approximately 800 miles. CZK, then the Ministry of Health committed in 2014 to improving the management of hospitals managed by the Ministry of Health. This list of measures was approved by the government, but unfortunately, much of the measures did not take place. There were commitments to, say, joint purchases of medicines, medical devices and so on. As far as I know, the ministry claimed, by the mouth of its deputy, that the supply of medical oxygen and some energy competition was also competitive. St. John's University Hospital. Anna's still in debt. The last information during the committee meeting last week was the loss of this hospital 236 miles. CZK, as well as the loss of the Royal Vinohrady University Hospital about 100 miles. Crowns. The Faculty Hospital of Royal Vinohrady has been managing for several years with a high loss and, according to an audit carried out in 2015, which the Minister promised me, but has not yet delivered it, has been misrepresenting the economic result of this hospital for several years. The Department of Health at the Committee admitted last week that the problems of the University Hospital at St. Anna can't solve it because of a historically low base rate. Of course, the problem is also commitments from ICRC projects and so on. But changing the legal form will not solve this problem. It is hard to imagine that the University of Brno will agree to take over a loss-making hospital from which, as the Minister also admitted, in 1990 or perhaps even before that part of the profitable enterprise was brought into a separate organization. I can't imagine the university agreeing to take over a burden that it will have to finance from its own resources. Even a cash pool proposal I don't think will solve this problem. And it would be a mistake if the university treated something like this if the state couldn't solve this problem before it transferred this hospital to another legal form. I draw attention to one more problem that may not seem to be related to this issue, but it is a problem that will emerge here in the coming years, and it is the opening of scissors between regional health care and state hospitals. I think six months ago, the government approved so-called strategic investments in hospitals directly managed in the range of about 8 billion. CZK by 2020. However, this will result in a large imbalance between state and regional hospitals. Regional hospitals will never reach these funds and will lag behind in the field of repairs, reconstruction and modernisation. Therefore, regional hospitals will inevitably also lose patients who are interested in treating in well-equipped modern hospitals, where staff are also significantly better rated, and this will cause the future to lag behind regional hospitals. I think it's a big problem that we're going to have to deal with in the future. These are my comments on this bill as well as the related problems it may bring. I believe that the law, as quickly prepared, may have been prepared in good intentions, but I think that if the problems I mentioned, for example, at St. Anna in Brno or at the Royal Vinohrady, will not be solved, it is difficult to implement this transfer and the law can be approved in this form. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. Next, Mr. Jiří Štětina, to whom I hereby give the floor, is entered in the general debate. Please, Mr. Ambassador, it's yours.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u16	Good afternoon. Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am not one of those people who a priori negate everything, criticize everything and say that nothing works. If I don't have an opinion on improvement, I'd rather keep my mouth shut than make things worse. I have listened very carefully to all the speeches of the previous speakers, and I will not comment negatively on anyone. I must say, I sensed from every speech that everyone who lectured it was trying to help things. And with that kind of attitude, I'm trying. I have to say quite frankly that when I first read the bill and looked into history, there were several times that this law had been being prepared since 2006, that is when we wanted to privatise everything, because we said that the only right economic operator was a private entity, and it turned out that it was not, because the state basically wanted to outsource everything, pay everything, buy services, and it was even more expensive than we could think. So we've been talking about some kind of university hospital or other forms since 2006. Because if we have a contribution organization, of course, by law the founder is obliged to finance the loss of operation and otherwise it simply cannot be done. So I think it's wise to change form. [[16.20 hours]] Because I don't understand the law, of course there are very capable lawyers among us who will replace my indolgences in quotation marks, so I had to study what a legal person is. And that's a very broad term. I have read that legal entities are artificially created entities that act and act like people in legal relations. The nature of legal entities is made up of either people or things and is distinguished by them: the community of persons, or corporations, the second community of things, or property, and the community of legal persons. That's some basic legal facts. But a very interesting formula is that a legal person is also a state. And if in Section 1, which deals with the position of a university hospital, the wording that a university hospital is a legal person established by the state, that is, ladies and gentlemen, something completely different from that when that formulation is not there. We had a very nice conversation today with the Minister at our club and we talked about various things quite openly and I think that we are not frowning or frowning at each other, and we have also discussed this matter there. So I'm already applying, although it's completely irrelevant at this time, to the first amendment that I'm going to add to Section 1 established by the State. That's the first two considerations. I went back a little bit in history, I mentioned legislative matters. Now I will mention only briefly, because I am also not an economist, on some economic matters. I think the point of improving the economy of these university hospitals is certainly the right idea. But I don't think simply connecting the university to the hospital will improve the management. Everything's just in people, and what people are like, how they know how they act, and, of course, those hospitals manage so much. We also discussed with the Minister today that it is unacceptable for some specialised institutes to fall into these faculty hospitals, such as the Institute of Hematology and Blood Transfusion or the world-famous Cardiocentrum in Brno and many other organizations, but the minister said that this had already fallen, and that these institutes would be separate and that they would not be included in these university hospitals. I welcome it, and I think that this is another step towards having a completely serious conversation about some things and not rejecting this law and priori. About the management. I do not see in this law how financial control will be carried out. I'm only worried about one thing. If it is not in Section 1 that it is a legal person established by the State, then it will not be able to control the management of the Supreme Audit Office. As a member of the Supervisory Committee, I know that many faculty hospitals have failed well in the past, and in the long past. Now I'm not going to go into any specific numbers, I think most of us know it, I'm not going to try to degenerate someone here from this place in some way. But I think that it is necessary for the management to be controlled by someone. If it is a legal person established by the state, then, of course, public finances can be controlled by the Supreme Audit Office. In that case, I'll be happy too. I also care about how employees and workers who provide medical services in university hospitals will be financed today at the same time. We were worried that there would be a way of distinguishing some places according to the table, numbers, etc., groups, but the minister clearly said that paying employees would be through the payroll law. And that's also, I'd say, good news, but it needs to be made perfectly clear to the law, in order for it to come out. At the end of my certainly tiring narrative and my private opinions, which, of course, are supported by personal experience over several decades, because I also worked at the faculty hospital, so in conclusion only how worried I am. If the Minister will explain them to me today, and I think he will, because he has explained a few things to me that I need not have these concerns, then with a calm conscience, we can release this law into second reading, and that is what we want to discuss. It's true we have very little time for this. If the Minister had been sitting here a year longer, it would have been a little different, so I would have said to him, Mr. Secretary, why didn't you bring it up three quarters of a year ago? But the Minister is here very briefly, and I think it's a good thing he came up with the law at least at the end of his term. But to the concerns. And it's not just my private opinions, but it's the opinions or the concerns of some subjects, organizations and individuals. So, first of all, so that there's no coincidence in selling movable and real estate that could or would have to be privatized, because then comes the savior, some company that says, "Yeah, well, you don't have a hospital, so here's ours. He already has it ready in advance because he is better funded and will therefore be a savior. And we're going to say, "Good thing we have him here, because at least we'll be able to provide medical services." That's my concern first. Afraid of the other. To keep the personnel situation in statutory bodies, i.e. on the board of directors, on the Supervisory Board, and, of course, in the seat of the Director, there has not been such a situation as I experience here for the seventh year that people, personalities, lobbyists, etc. are simply politically placed in different bodies. That is indeed a great concern. And if this is done in any way for the benefit of the cause, it will be very good. And the third concern is that, by chance, if we can still adopt this law by the end of the term, so that university hospitals do not become even more centers - or larger centres, because there will be ten? - in relation to regional hospitals, but also smaller hospitals. Because I believe that centralization in large cities is not good because it will reduce the availability of local and time, and we have always wanted in the Health Services Act to be the first to have the patient in the mountains, in the mines, in small towns, villages, but also in Prague the same conditions for the provision of health services. So that's my last concern. Thank you for listening to my old-fashioned views, and then I would ask the Minister very much to comment on some things. And I'm sure I'm not alone, because I'm sure he's had more of those subjects, and we've talked about it several times. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u17	Thank you, too, Mr. Ambassador. Now let me read a few apologies. The Prime Minister apologizes for the Chamber of Deputies meeting from 16.00 today on account of work obligations outside the Chamber of Deputies. Mrs Jana Lorencová apologises from 16 a.m. to the end of the day without giving any reason. Mr Milan Urban apologizes from today's meeting from 16.00 to the end of the day. And Mr Karel Pražák apologizes for today's meeting from 18.00 to the end of the meeting for work reasons. And now, as the next one, we will be speaking in a proper debate, Mr Svoboda. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Abandoned Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me also say a few words about this law. [[Minister Louis is the only member of the government in the hall]] As a first sentence, I would like to say that the law on university hospitals is something that our health care and our education need immensely. That's the premise I'm coming out of. I would like, as probably the greatest memorial present here, to correct the fact that university hospitals were discussed in 2006. The first draft law on university hospitals was prepared by Dean Bilder in 1990. He was a dentist, Dean of the Brno Faculty. And I would just recommend to those who don't know it, that they look at his version. She wasn't so bad at being the first. The second thing I'd like to say is that I don't see this law as Lex Ludvík. I call him Lex Director. It's the same as the law that Leoš Heger prepared. These are laws prepared by experienced hospital directors, and therefore their view can, of course, largely reflect the issue of medical, hospital, not faculty. I have a special life experience. I was both. I was dean of the faculty, and I was director of the hospital for a while. It was the University Hospital in the Royal Vinohrady that was quoted today. And I have to say that when I handed it over in a hurry after the arrival of the new minister, it was in black numbers, and that in about six months, the few tens of millions that were there were in a plus vanished like when the creek went down. So I have experience with both sides. And what I would like to highlight at this point is something other than what was being said here. I understand that hospitals themselves must manage in another way, that they must be able to manage the property. I understand that this implies, for example, a change in budgetary rules, simply so that the hospital becomes a real organisation that operates according to the same rules as any other undertaking. I understand that, and I don't even have a dizzying fear that it would mean privatizing her or selling her as she sounds. I would like to point out that there are communal university hospitals in the world, private-owned university hospitals, state-owned university hospitals, church-owned and university-owned hospitals - or run by a university. The term owned is a little narrowing. What exactly is the essence of a university hospital? What makes a university hospital different from all other hospitals? When we take this and we go to principle, they differ by teaching and training new doctors, teaching and education of other health professionals and non-medical and sister professions, and by providing science, research and, last but not least, health care for patients. However, if what gives the university hospital the name of a university is its part, it is in principle also expressed that the school part should have its function. I am aware that this is a matter on which, in many cases, even university rectors do not like to hear, because taking responsibility for the operation of a university hospital, taking over some liability is very difficult. But I'm convinced that we can't do it without it. There were some things that were going on here... Leoš said the issue of distributing profits from research. But that's a marginal question. It's also about the day-to-day activity, the acquisition of individual experts, the actual status of personnel. It's also about how she's chosen and named the head of the clinic. This new proposal takes it from the dean's hands and puts it in the hands of the director - as one of the examples of how the ratio between school and hospital changes. And I see all these changes as negative. I believe that the law should, in principle, address the fact that it is a university hospital, i.e. a faculty and medical operation. And that faculty should have a vital role to play as a hospital and a vital role to play and should be able to speak to the hospital's management. It's not about the faculty... [[The speaker quieted down and looked at the disturbing MP at the newsstand. Members of Pilný and Brázdil are speaking with the rapporteur and disturbing the extraordinary silence in the hall.]] I don't normally do it, but it's my lifelong destiny, college and university hospital. And I think it's very important. I may be ridiculous, but I think that the fact is important and that the law that we have before us is very, very fundamental, and we have to make a very fundamental decision as to how we are going to proceed with this because we need it because it has been on the table several times and because it has to take a different form than it does at this time. The problem with the relationship between the university and the hospital isn't whether the university pays for students to wear underwear when they go to the operating room, it's not whether they're drowning and glowing in the rooms where they're being lectured. These are items that are completely irrelevant in the university hospital's budget. Yet they argue in the discussion about the relationship between the university and the hospital. What is essential and important there is that teaching must be at such a level as to ensure, first and foremost, the quality of our young doctors so that they are able to give our citizens the best possible care from the point of view of brain and technical implementation, but also to ensure that we are treated within the European Union as equal partners, that graduates of our faculties will be treated as equal graduates of other faculties and can simply operate the work of a doctor throughout the European Union without any major checks. Because I don't have a problem with anyone leaving. I say go, go, and come back to me in five years as a qualified doctor. It would just cost me money to raise you. And when you come back to me, you might as well be the leader. These numbers are irrelevant in the number of our doctors, what goes away every year, is a number that is more or less stabilized, had a slight rise around Thank you, we are leaving, otherwise it is permanently stabilized. So what I would like this law to reflect better is that there relations between the school section, the pedagogical part and the health area are clearly defined. The questions of different payouts are certainly also important, and it is, in fact, a problem that creates some sort of inequality between employees, a rivalry that is not right. They're differences in vacations, in all these things. And these things should take some form. And I say again, the rectors should find the courage to take part in the responsibility that when they have a medical school, they also have responsibility for a university hospital that says it belongs to the university, not that it's something that agreed on the faculty as an executive body. It's just that the teaching part, the teaching part, in my opinion, is the most important part of the university hospital's work, because if the faculty isn't there, it's gonna be a county hospital, because in many cases, regional hospitals are equipped with the same, and staffing that they provide the exact same medical quality, but they're not able to provide part of the pedagogical. And the truth is, the pedagogical part is becoming very, very serious. [[16.40 hours]] At the moment, we can teach everyone anything by giving him some electronic media, turning everything around. He can learn to dissect in those pictures, he doesn't actually have to take a knife into his hand. But he needs to learn skills. It's just hard to tell. He has to gain experience. Only the number of experiences, the frequency of what he saw, gives the quality of the doctor. And that's what he needs to be provided with a hospital that's built and designed to do the teaching. It means that such a university hospital must also make an ordinary appendix. Just because someone has to see him. But it means that they must maintain operations that may not be needed in a county hospital, whether they are outpatient or semi-ambulant, because you have to teach them in some form. And to make a deal with the university, the faculty and the hospital about the extent of the activity, there's an apple of contention. It's not the surgical coats, it's the fact that the faculty needs another activity that costs other money, extra money. And that is why I call very strongly for this law to take shape, where the ratio of forces between the faculty and the hospital will not be written by the director of the hospital, but will also be written by the dean of the faculty. Then, in my opinion, it would be right. There's a lot of problems there. I am extremely worried about my experience in Parliament, which is three years old, and I am extremely worried about it when the law improves with amendments. That's what's really freaking me out. Not because it may be 350 amendments, but because the proposals go against each other, they are not conceptual, they are not well discussed. There will be things that have been behind them that have been so criticized here, which means certain political interests or opinions that it is not a general matter. The law on university hospitals is a general matter and should actually be adopted across the political spectrum in a form that will last at least 20 years, which has not accepted Julínek because it will not be sold for 20 years. So my proposal, and I think that the reasoning I'm saying, even though I called it very lightly and naked, but the essence is the idea and the desire that a real university hospital be able to perform its teaching function fully. To be able to influence the function. There's no way it's based on a contract where the hospital pulls a stronger card. It's just not possible. And that the stronger card is, that's what follows from the number of people on the board who are in there, those two deputies behind the university are completely irrelevant there, except maybe they could block the three-quarter decisions, along with the employees could do it. Otherwise, it's completely in the hands of the director, completely in the hands of the Ministry. Because his role disappears in that form of ownership, but he remains there in the form of some principal decisions. I understand. I understand that property cannot be stolen beyond a certain value without the consent of the state. I understand that. But on the other hand, I would very much like the state to understand that teaching has its own specific requirements, and to agree with the other ministry and the school section on how to use the resources. Because at this point, no one knows how it's gonna work. Everything is referred to some contract between the faculty and the hospital. What's the contract gonna look like? How will the council prepare her? This is really an open matter. I think that a step has actually succeeded, which has moved somewhere, but that step is still small at this point in my opinion. That is why I will be filing a motion for refusal at first reading. If not, then return to the Ministry for rework. Only then would I see the third, bad time, that means improving by means of amendments that are not really going to amend that law. If you look into it and try to familiarize yourself with the issue, you will understand that this is not repairable or supplementable. The problem is too strong. And that mistake really only arises because unfortunately, the Minister inherited it lately, that it was not possible for social democracy to promote this whole term. Because if you want to push for something in the health sector, then you have to start pushing for it when the government takes over. That's work for the whole period. And it must also be to bring something positive, because otherwise all the steps in health care at the first stage are negative for the one who set them up. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u19	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And now another one entered in the general debate, Mr Vít Kaňkovský, will appear. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u20	Good afternoon, Mr President, Minister, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. There has already been much said about this bill. So I'm just going to limit myself to a few notes. I generally support the idea of transforming faculty diseases. It's not a new idea either. In several variations, a similar design has appeared here, or in a little bit of other versions, more than once. That is why I wondered what form the proposal would take, which, in a relatively record-breaking time, prepared by the Ministry of Health after the failure of the intention to prepare the bill on non-profit hospitals. The essential limit was already shown at the beginning, because the time to prepare this law and the commentary procedure proved more than border. And so is the limit time to discuss this bill in the next legislative process. And this is not a criticism of the current minister, this is a statement of the current situation around this bill. There has been talk about a number of risks that the bill contains. I will not repeat them all, but I cannot mention again the problem of the debt of some current faculty hospitals, while the most alarming situation of St. Anne's University Hospital in Brno is already in the long term. This has also been discussed here. During our parliamentary term alone, it was necessary to repeatedly provide funds from the state to address this entity's unhappy situation, it has already been mentioned here, it was CZK three quarters of a billion, and negative management, but other problems continue to exist in this hospital. And so logical questions arise here, what about these problematic subjects that are supposed to become university hospitals. I would also like to mention other problematic circuits or even problematic entities that have similar problems, perhaps not to that extent. It is at this time mainly the University Hospital of Royal Vinohrady, but tomorrow it may be some other hospital. In this context, it is not surprising to ask the rectors of our universities who demand that future university hospitals be indebted. But is this proposed solution enough in itself? The problem with the negative management of St. Anne's University Hospital, as well as other hospitals, is long-term and the transformation into another legal form alone cannot resolve this situation. I dare say that I know the situation of Brno health care quite well and, in my opinion, especially at St. Anne's University Hospital, the biggest problem is the absence of the concept of long-term development of this hospital and the unwillingness to take some major management decisions. In this context, I blame the Ministry of Health for the fact that the situation of Brno hospitals, which it is setting up, has not started to be comprehensively addressed before. And to think that with the adoption of this new law, a miracle will happen, and the indebted hospitals will swing into positive numbers, is, forgive me, quite naive. [[16.50 hours]] I appreciate that the Minister, too. At the pressure of the KDU-ČSL club, he released the controversial section 44, which gave almost unbiased possibility to distribute, merge or disrupt some of the contribution organizations that are now directly managed by the Ministry's organizations, but will not be transformed into university hospitals. On the other hand, a number of provisions remain in the proposal, which are very risky in the current form. For these reasons, the discussion at the KDU-ČSL parliamentary club on this bill was also difficult. Finally, we are willing to release this bill to committee meetings. However, there is no way that we will agree to shortening the deadlines, because the discussions surrounding this bill will be difficult and difficult to anticipate the outcome. It is also difficult to anticipate how KDU-ČSL will act in the final vote if we reach it at all during this parliamentary term. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. The Member has spoken as the last duly signed up. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking in the general debate. I don't see anyone. I therefore conclude the debate and ask the appellant if he is interested in speaking at the end of the debate. You have your word, Minister.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly indeed. There's been a lot of questions. It's obvious that the material is complicated. There were mainly members of the Health Committee, so I expect that if you let this thing go into further discussion, the biggest debates will take place on the health, or on the other hand. the school committee. A few things. The constant exorcism of state property. There really has to be an argument here... Public college. It's really almost identical. There's no transfer of property. I would like to draw attention here again - something else is the transfer of state property and something else is the use of unnecessary property. Nobody's really gonna sell those hospitals. I can't, because there's a much harder way to stop it than it used to be in that law today. I'd like to say one important sentence. Today there is no state obligation to finance the loss of hospitals. I don't know who's gonna sit in that ministry today, but if anyone's gonna be really tough, it's gonna be the hospital, it's gonna be the svatý John's. He's not gonna help Anna. Sure, there's a commitment today that their invoices will be paid. In this case, the Ministry of Finance, which guarantees them. But frankly, they're gonna do it, but at that point, the pressure is gonna start a lot harder than it is in there today to rationalize it. It's just not legal today. Now, theoretically, the institution can't go bankrupt, but nowhere is it said exactly what to do with it if the state doesn't want to subsidize it anymore. Then there were a few references to the two-track sequence. Sure, what Professor Svoboda said must be said, on the other hand, that there should be an institution where both the scientific and research part and the part of the preventive part are balanced. And trust me, with my 16-year experience, I know what I'm talking about. It's really always about the deal. Of course, there will be a lot of implementing rules for this, of course, that among the implementing rules there will be a presumption of what the university-university contract should look like. Mr. Mr. Slutty. I'm against political nominations. And that's where they're gonna be prevented by the whole property liability. I think a lot of those political nominees who like to sit around on different board boards are gonna be avoiding these guys. I'm almost convinced of that. I would like to emphasise one more thing. It's not about giving hospitals to universities. The universities don't take over the hospital. This is where a partner organization is formed, like a joint venture between the university and the state that puts its faculty hospital there. I think that a new legal person, sui generis, of its kind, is being created right now, it is important to emphasise this. And then I'd like to disprove the concern that regional hospitals might fall. That's not true at all. Czech Health is a network. It's a certain system that comes from those regional hospitals. I can't imagine this state without those four-disciplinary basic hospitals. It doesn't exist. I can't. On the contrary, today's faculty hospitals, university hospitals I hope for the future, the very top, a supplement that will concentrate the most complex care, and of course, the instruction of the appendicitis will remain, because the doctors have to see it somewhere. That's right. So I would like to point out that, on the contrary, I believe that by centralising this superspecialized care, there will, paradoxically, be far more money left for those regional hospitals. I don't want to do this anymore. I would really like to intercede, this bill should go through the second reading and be subjected to a very professional discussion. And I'm not really defending myself from her. On the contrary, I'll welcome her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u23	Thank you, Minister. And the rapporteur also announces the final word. You have your word, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Let me briefly summarize what has been said here. The Minister has already answered some questions. A total of seven debaters discussed. Mostly the issue revolved around finance, about debt, about event. privatisation and around some relationships, direct relations between the faculty hospital and the faculty, such as double-trackness etc. So you've seen for yourself that there's a lot of problems here and that they need to be dealt with. However, we have one motion to dismiss. And if he doesn't pass, we have a motion to return the petitioner. And then we have a motion for support and commandment to committees. A health committee was elected by the Guarantee Committee, but then also by the Commandment of the Education Committee. So that's what we have to discuss.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u25	Thank you, rapporteur. We would therefore now proceed to the vote on the proposals as they have been tabled. So, first of all, if you say that a motion has been put forward to return the applicant for work? Under the Rules of Procedure, we first vote on recovery and only then to reject it. So if both of these proposals have fallen and were not conditional, we should proceed in this way. I'll call in my colleagues from the lobby. I'm registering an application for a check-out, which I will of course grant, and I'll ask all of you to rejoin with your voting cards. With priority rights, Madam Vice-President Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u26	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. A fellow Member of Svoboda has said this conditionally, so please vote first on rejection.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u27	Okay. I didn't understand it that way, but I don't have a problem with it. If no one objects to this procedure... we would first vote to reject it. And if this had not been adopted, we would have voted on the proposal to return to work. So the number of people here has settled. I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of rejecting the motion. Who's against it? This is voting number 406, registered by 127 Members, for 9, against 63. This proposal has not been adopted. We shall now proceed to the vote on the referral back to the applicant. Initiating vote. I'm asking who's in favour of this proposal to raise his hand and press the button. Who opposes this proposal? This is vote number 407, registered by 127 Members, for 34, against 56. This proposal has not been adopted. [[17,00 hours]] We will therefore now consider the proposal for a commandment to the committees for discussion. First, we decide on the commandment to the guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the proposal submitted to discuss the Committee on Health as a Committee on Guarantee. Does anyone suggest the commandment to another committee as a guarantee? I don't see anyone checking in. We can therefore proceed to the vote. Who agrees with the proposal being ordered to discuss the Health Committee as a guarantee committee? I'm opening the vote and I'm asking who's in favour. Who's against it? This is voting number 408, registered by 130 Members, for 126, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Committee on Health as a committee of guarantee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to the next Committee. Does anyone have a motion on the commandment of the next committee to discuss? In the debate, a proposal was made for the Education Committee. Any other proposals in this part of the debate? I don't see anyone applying. I am opening the vote and I am asking who is in favour of this proposal being attributed to the Committee on Education, in short, I will not say the full name. Who's against it? Voting 409, registered by 130 Members, for 101, against no one. This proposal was adopted. I note that the proposal has been ordered to discuss the school committee as the next committee. I did not notice any proposal in the debate to shorten or extend the deadline, so I consider that we have dealt with the first reading of this law. I'm ending this item and at the same time handing over the management of the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-25-ps2013-056-07-001-063.u28	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. I'll open up another item in today's meeting. That's what it is.
