ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-004-004.u1	4. The draft law amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts (the Act on the Register of Contracts), as amended by Act No. 298/2016 Coll. House print 699/11 - returned to the Senate As you know, we have already discussed this point at the 59th meeting on 28 June 2017, when we interrupted this point in the debate. I ask that Mr Kudela take the position of the rapporteur's table as the plaintiff? Are you going to the plaintiff? I saw the Minister a moment ago... Never mind. So, Mr Kudela and Mr. Senator Jaroslav Větrovský, is he present? It's not. Senator Canov, maybe? They're not. I recall that the Senate returned the bill with amendments and the resolution was delivered as House press 699/12. I ask, are the rapporteurs interested in speaking for the constitutional committee? He's Mr. Farský, I don't see him here. For the Public Administration Committee, Mr Jan Klán is interested in speaking on this point. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-004-004.u2	Thanks again for the word. Good afternoon. Mr Vice-President, Government, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a few words about a certain Evergreen in this Chamber of Deputies, and this Evergreen is a register of treaties. This version, which came from the Senate more than six months ago, started a conflict here between those who in some way protect national and state enterprises, and between, let's face it, a non-profit organization Reconstructing the State. The paradox of the time is that neither version of the contract register includes non-profit organisations as recipients of public money. I'm not afraid to say, one of the biggest recipients of public money. We have spoken many, many times on this subject. I'm sorry they're not in the register alone, not even fighting to be there to make the process more transparent. Instead, it's always been said that there must be state-owned businesses, because the money's running somewhere. But a state enterprise, a national enterprise or a company owned by municipalities operates in a competitive market. And I was here once or more saying that the register of contracts is an instrument of capitalist competition to weaken the position of the national state, the national state, precisely to weaken, purposefully weaken certain phases or some enterprises owned by the state. Unfortunately, no one here wanted to admit that. Of course, there was a certain variant of the register of contracts that we approved here on the previous meeting, where we found a compromise, where, of course, those state enterprises will be protected on the market, because I have a legitimate concern that this is, of course, a sneaking privatisation of the state. The register of contracts will, of course, weaken the position of the national state, whatever version it is. The state works with the contract register and works without it. However, you all have to understand that we live in overwhelming competition and the state should protect its golden eggs. As it turned out, we have also seen many times that the golden eggs may have been sold or in some way weakened by these businesses. I have spoken here many times about various examples, such as the United States, when Walmart deliberately weakened its competitive position by selling products below price for some time, and then liquidating the competition. Budvar's national enterprise became an apple of contention in the contract register. Yes, the only national place that cooks beer. I've also said here that Anheuser-Busch was circling around to somehow take him under. And what's in it for us? Absolutely nothing. Of course, someone may laugh at this, that these considerations are unfounded, but unfortunately they are justified. I can say here that the KSČM MP will vote in favour of the House's version of the register of contracts, this one that we have here right now, as it shines on the board, the one that we have presented here. In our opinion, the Senate version is inoperable. In our opinion, the House version protects national and state-owned enterprises more by removing them from the scope of the contract register. I think it's a classic confrontation here in the field of the Chamber of Deputies. I've been criticizing the implementation of the contract register from the start, and I'm not hiding it. I mean, I'm gonna be criticizing her all the time, because in my opinion, it doesn't reduce the risk of corruption that's being declared here, and on some billboards, it's even sort of the spiritual father of the contract register saying that corruption will be reduced. But in my opinion, this will not happen, but, on the contrary, the position of the national state will be weakened. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-004-004.u3	Thank you, rapporteur. The rapporteur of the Economic Committee was Mr Stupčuk. I'm asking if he's interested in a performance? [[I don't.]] He doesn't. We will continue the adjourned debate and report to Mr Kudela, to whom I hereby give the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-004-004.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, honourable Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to use the words of the President's meeting. We all know there's something we need to do about the contract register. He has thus initiated a debate on this issue. The variant that left the Chamber of Deputies was modified by the Senate and we felt that none of these options were the best. Therefore, on 28 June of this year, the House's press discussed 1124, which dealt with the issue of the register of contracts in which the strategic interests of the state in the form of the management of strategic raw materials and supplies of the state had to be incorporated. This House press 1124 has been referred to the Senate 29. 6. The Senate has not adopted a resolution on him. He was transferred to the President of the Republic and he was 18th. 2017 signed and amended the Act on the Register of Contracts published in the Collection of Laws under No. 249/2017. I therefore consider this return to this House press 699 from the Senate no longer relevant, and therefore I recommend to the Chamber of Deputies that we reject both the two options, both the Senate and the MP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-09-05-ps2013-060-01-004-004.u5	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I ask if anyone else is interested in speaking on this point in the debate? If not, I am done with the debate. We shall proceed to the vote in accordance with Section 97 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 4 Act on the Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies. Nobody's waving a card at me this time... so I'm supposed to check out, shouldn't I log out? Then we're not signing off. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies agrees with the bill amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts, as amended by Act No. 298/2016 Coll., pursuant to House Press 699/11, as approved by the Senate, pursuant to House Press 699/12.' [[Act on the Register of Contracts]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? It's vote number 17. 138 Members are registered, for no one, against 87. This proposal was rejected. I note that we have not adopted the bill as approved by the Senate. We will therefore now vote again, in accordance with Article 97 (2) of the Treaty. 5 The Rules of Procedure of the Chamber of Deputies and the adoption of this resolution require the consent of an absolute majority of all Members, namely the consent of 101 Members. We're set to go. I will make a motion for a resolution: "The Chamber of Deputies approves the bill amending Act No. 340/2015 Coll., on special conditions for the effectiveness of certain contracts, the publication of these contracts and the register of contracts, as amended by Act No. 298/2016 Coll., as amended, in which he was referred to the Senate according to the House's press 699/11. [[Act on the Register of Contracts]] I am opening the vote and asking who is in favour of this proposal. Who's against it? It's vote number 18. 137 Members are registered, for 26, against 55. This proposal was rejected. I'm saying we didn't accept the bill. That concludes this point, and thank you. I'm opening another point, which is point number.
