ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u1	41. Government bill amending Act No. 300/2013 Coll., on Military Police and on the Amendment of Certain Acts (the Military Police Act), as amended /German Press 973/ - First Reading I ask that Minister of Defence Martin Stropnický and Committee rapporteur Václav Klučka take their seats at the rapporteur's table. Under the authority of the Government, Martin Stropnický, the Minister of Defence, will present the proposal. Minister, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, let me present here, on behalf of the Government, a bill amending the Military Police Act, which has been sent to you as House press number 973. The Government is submitting to the Chamber of Deputies of the Parliament of the Czech Republic a draft amendment to the Act on Military Police, which responds to changes in the legal order of the Czech Republic and at the same time to the needs of police practice. The submitted amendment to the Military Police Act is a logical outcome of the current legislative process and is directly linked to the amendment of the Criminal Code, which has been effective since 1 July 2016. The amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure extended the mandate of the military police authorities to state-owned enterprises and contribution organisations established or established by the Ministry of Defence. At the same time, the military police were entrusted with an investigation into crimes within their jurisdiction. The main reason for the amendment to the Military Police Act is to unify the scope of the criminal code to the authorities of the Military Police with the scope defined by the Military Police Act and to create conditions for the effective use of forces and means of the Military Police in its entirety. In the period since the adoption of the Military Police Act in 2013, some additional needs have also been demonstrated to clarify the legislation of the Military Police in relation to its tasks, duties and privileges. These needs are the content of an amendment which aims to improve the existing conditions for the exercise of police protection, in particular: - extend the powers of the Military Police to the police protection of forces of the armed forces of other States on the basis of international contractual obligations, including the definition of tasks and the authorisation of the Military Police to carry out them; This problem occurred, for example, in the need to ensure safe passage and undisturbed residence of alliance units in the Czech Republic at the end of March 2015 in the framework of the Dragoon Ride event; - further provide for the possibility of separate operations of the Military Police in carrying out tasks also in the territory of other States in fulfilling international contractual obligations; - specify the duties of a military police officer in proving his affiliation with the Military Police; - supplement existing institutes of operationally searching resources with an informant, cover and cover documents and create predictable and constitutionally conformal conditions for their use; - further refine and supplement certain authorisations of a military police officer, e.g. personal inspection and use of certain coercive means. Finally, I would like to point out that the draft amendment to the Military Police Act has been passed through inter-ministerial proceedings and negotiations in the government without contradictions. This proposal has the full support of the leadership of the Supreme Prosecutor's Office, the two state prosecutors, as well as the police president. The adoption of the proposed law is not linked to the requirement to strengthen the budget chapter of the Ministry of Defence. All expenditure will be covered by the funds allocated to the resort. The draft law is fully in line with the constitutional order of the Czech Republic and the commitments taken over. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the content of the proposed amendment, I believe that you will support the draft law at first reading, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u3	Thank you, Minister, for the introductory words, and I ask the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Václav Klučka to present his report. Please, rapporteur, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u4	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. As always in my case, the news report before the first reading will be very brief, it will only inform you that this press 973 has been delivered to the Chamber of Deputies 29. 11. 2016 that this press contains all the elements to be contained by Parliament's press, including the developed explanatory note that this press went through a commentary procedure before the Government's meeting, so it is a work material with which we can continue to work when it was included in this Chamber of Deputies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u5	I thank the rapporteur for his report and open a general debate. Now I have four written applications so far. The first is Mr Antonín Seďa. Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u6	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear Prime Minister, members of the government, Minister, fellow Members, as mentioned by the Minister, and according to the explanatory report, the aim of the proposal to make the military police work more effective is to be the primary objective. I agree with that, because the amendment to the Act ensures compliance of the Military Police Act with the adopted amendment to the Criminal Code. [[It's busy in the hall.]] The first change is the change and definition of the military police's competence, which should be in line with the real needs of the security of police protection of the Ministry of Defence and Armed Forces, military buildings and newly state-owned enterprises and contribution organisations established by the Ministry of Defence. The amendment also extends the scope of the Military Police to units of the armed forces of other states, e.g. The North Atlantic Alliance, in the protection and accompaniment of the colonies, their techniques, their movement and stay in the territory of the Czech Republic, but also in the case of joint operations in foreign missions, operations or joint exercises. It is also essential to extend the ability of the Military Police to investigate crimes themselves -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u7	I, my colleague, will interrupt you and ask the House for peace. I understand that there are debates over other topics, but please lead them in the hall. Allow your fellow Members to comment on those proposals which are in their interest. And I'm sure my colleague Seďa has that as a member of the committee. Please, Mr. Ambassador, continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u8	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. It is also essential to extend the ability of the Military Police to investigate crimes themselves, including the use of hidden identity, the acquisition and processing of personal data, the possibility of entering establishments serving business, the use of certain coercive means or the use of supporting operational search funds such as the Police of the Czech Republic. [[17.10 hours]] Here I would like to take a turn and recall the activities of the special operations department, or SOK, which was disbanded until 2009, when under mysterious circumstances, part of the Military Police, and the world, wonders, had a similar competence to that proposed in this amendment of the law. The proposed modifications contribute to increasing the country's security and defence, increasing the ability of the Military Police to save crimes in the Ministry of Defence and unifying the privileges and rules of service with the Police of the Czech Republic. Therefore, I recommend to refer the bill to the Defence Committee. The only question that will be part of the discussion in the Guarantee Committee is how the public's control role will be strengthened by the Parliament of the Czech Republic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. And we will continue with the debate, with Mr Daniel Korte's speech, Mrs Černochová will prepare herself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u10	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this time, unlike my last speech, I will be brief, albeit reaching the same result. Unfortunately, I must say that the Chamber of Deputies, with its ill-considered last amendment to the Act on Military Police and other related laws, for example. The criminal order - it is to say that TOP 09 did not vote for it - admitted that the Military Police in some situations are based on the Police of the Czech Republic, and therefore now the Military Police want and seek the same authorizations, instruments and means as the Police of the Czech Republic. It's for example. the possibility to check people, to illustrate them, to examine them, to use coercive means, to enter apartments and establishments, or even to use operationally searching resources. If by any chance anyone present does not know what is being used under this technical designation, it is the use of wiretaps. Basically, it gives the impression that a second police force is being built here in the Czech Republic, and apparently the third police are being built in Customs administration under the ego of Deputy Robert Šlachta. It is quite logical that strengthening one or one means weakening the other, the other is the Police of the Czech Republic in this case. There are more attempts to weaken the Police of the Czech Republic and its position. Recently, we have witnessed a massive attack by some former police officers and some prosecutors in the Police of the Czech Republic today in connection with the emergence of the National Headquarters against organized crime, and we are now witnessing a legislative attempt to cut off other rings from the salami baton. I am afraid that once this process is completed, the Police of the Czech Republic will only be a paper tiger, because there will be nothing left to do but chase pickpockets on Wenceslas Square. Ladies and gentlemen, I consider this proposal to be conceptually flawed, it is a step in the wrong direction, and therefore I propose to reject it at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u11	Thank you, Mr Daniel Korte. Before we go any further, colleague Černochová, a little patience, because there is a factual remark from Mr Chalupa. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u12	Thank you for the floor. Unlike my colleague Korte, through Mr President, I have two opposite views. First of all, you say that it contributes to weakening, but I say that this is an increase in the country's security and defence capacities, because there will be additional capacity to investigate things that concern military environments that extend to civilians. At the same time, it is a complement to the current penal code, which, by proposing this law by the Military Police or the Ministry of Defence, is actually a match for the Military Police with the provisions of the Penal Code. And the other thing. I don't agree with the evaluation - you were talking about reorganizing the police. I think it's exactly the opposite of what you said back then. But that's a difference of opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u13	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Gabal's point of view. My colleague, Černochová, is as patient as all other colleagues. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u14	Thank you. I'll follow up on what my colleague Chalupa said. On the one hand, it is an undisputed strengthening of the investigative capacities available to us, on the other hand, I must clearly say that if the Minister of Defence had devoted the same efforts to the development of the fighting capacities of the Czech Army, as he is developing in the direction of police and investigative capabilities, administrative and in terms of combat capabilities inefficient, I would be much more satisfied. We will support the proposal eventually, but I would rather see steps here that will significantly increase our share of the Atlantic defenses. And this isn't the move.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u15	Thank you for keeping the time to make a point of fact. Mr Zdeněk Ondráček will be prepared by Mrs Jana Černochová, who is now duly applied for. Please, madam, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u16	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. I think a lot of what I've been meaning to say here has been said by my previous speaker Dan Korte. I think there really is a problem here as a philosophical question. Military police are not the Police of the Czech Republic and should never replace it. In the Military Police are members of the Army of the Czech Republic. In the Police of the Czech Republic there are police officers, members of the Police of the Czech Republic. Military police are primarily supposed to protect our troops and do activities related to it. By amending the Code of Criminal Procedure, we have added the authority of the Military Police to deal with matters relating to economic crime, for example. in state companies - nothing against it - in cooperation with the Police of the Czech Republic. Those cases, according to the records we received from the military police representatives, are 60 cases a year. Because of 60 cases a year, we'll give the police, the military police, the soldiers, the authority to collect biological material, to keep those who will be saving, hiding witnesses, I don't know what else. I could give you the whole list here. I would really like to know how Mr. Defense Minister Stropnický imagines the effectiveness of the military police. The way I imagine it, for example. When we go to the airport in Kbel, Náměšť, Chrudimi, Pardubice, Příbami, wherever military planes fly, the Military Police will be standing there at the gate, not that there will be representatives of the state enterprise - I don't know if my information is true, I think it is - representatives of the state enterprise Forest of the Czech Republic. Dear colleagues, do you know who's protecting our airports? Forests of the Czech Republic! Where's Military Police? Why isn't the military police protecting critical infrastructure? Why is military police supposed to save things that the Police of the Czech Republic are saving in this state, and doesn't want to do what they do under their legal authority and authority, even now? I would like to know the answer to that from the Minister, as he imagines the military police work will be made more effective. If someone starts guarding critical infrastructure objects, the Military Police aren't doing it until now. [[17.20 hours]] A colleague of Korte mentioned it here. There was a war going on between you two, a gunfight. It goes on to merge the ÚOOZ and the ÚOKFK. This office was created, whose name I still can't remember. I guess I'm not alone in this - the National Center for Organized Crime. Again, I ask - why wasn't the Military Police involved in some way in the concept of the national headquarters? Why wasn't this discussed as part of the establishment of the headquarters? On the one hand, there's an office that we call a central crime agency - or whatever - and on the other hand, we're adding some kind of authority to someone. I would also like to ask the Minister, really, I wonder very much, who will be the number of wiretaps, the abuse of the authority of a military police officer, who will be in control? Here there are standing committees, several standing committees, whether it be for Military Intelligence, for the General Inspection of the Security Corps, a big ear. Where is the proposal that would show us the way this government will want to go in terms of control? Once again thoughtless, untethered, and once again here you're wondering about extending authority to something that's not the task of soldiers at all. Soldiers have different tasks. What are you gonna come up with next? Customs? That you're going to want the biological material collected by customs for criminal purposes? You can't be serious! For this reason, I propose, in addition to supporting the motion to dismiss tabled by my colleague Kort, that, in the event that it fails, I propose to return it to the drafting of the appellants and to clarify matters which are indeed at issue. I see Minister Chvojka here. I am glad because his predecessor, Minister Dienstbier, had several pages of comments on this bill. And I would really like you to have enough time - you are in your office, Minister, for a short time - to get to know these comments. Because, as I have never agreed with Minister Dienstbier in other matters, I could sign every word he has on this proposal. So did Minister Pelikán. About the records, about the registers. Maybe some of it worked out, maybe not. But I would very much like, in addition to Minister Stropnický, who, I firmly believe, would explain my concerns to me, answer my questions, here both the ministers spoke, both Chvojka and Pelikán. If Minister Chvojka is familiar with this, because I really have to stand up for him here because he didn't give it to him, but to his predecessor. And the opinion of the Minister of Justice on the vague terminology he referred to in his position, the vagueness, the generality of some terms - so I'd like to know what happened, that no one suddenly cares. So I propose a procedure: after a motion to refuse to vote for a return to work, so that these issues are actually clarified, both in connection with the National Centre against Organised Crime, and in the event that none of this has passed, I will propose extending the time limit for discussion in the relevant committees. But there's one more thing I'd like to point out. When we were discussing the Cyber Security Act today, or the establishment of that office, I didn't get involved because I asked myself to do so on the defense committee. But when are you going to stop putting laws on our country's defence and security by this appalling salami method? Every meeting, two or three laws. The Military Intelligence, the Military Intelligence, the other one, cyber security, the other, cyber security, the Military Police Act. Before the Security Information Service, it's said that there's going to be an amendment to the Service Act. This changes the 221 Occupational Soldiers Act. I can list a lot of laws here that are changing now and that can't even follow up on each other because they're in the process at the moment. You don't know what the amendments in the various committees will say and what this House will approve, yet you're rolling your head in with a pitchfork. There's still a debate going on here about the fact that there's a so-called DNA bill, or let's call it the DNA bill - we know Dan Korte is nodding at me, he knows what I'm talking about. I criticized this law a year ago. He's been withdrawn, redacted by the government. It's supposed to deal with the management of biological material. Exactly the kind of stuff you're giving the military police permission to do right now. I wonder what impact this authorisation for the Military Police will have on this DNA bill. He'll have an impact, won't he have an impact? Are you thinking about that? Indeed, there are a number of things that are questionable. We're nine months before the end of the term. We all know that. And I have a feeling that you have decided to break this year's record of presenting laws on the security and defence of this country. I wouldn't have a problem with that, if those laws were well-worked, they would follow up on each other, and there would be a reason for them. I don't see any reason here. A soldier is supposed to be a soldier and a police officer.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u17	Thank you, Mrs Jana Černochová. Mr Ondráček will be patient again, because we have a factual remark before us by Mrs Helena Válková and one performance with the priority right of the Minister of Justice. Madame, you have the floor on a point of fact.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u18	Thank you. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'd just like to be a little more specific about what this law is about. Since my previous speaker, by your means, dear colleague Mrs Černochová, may have suggested that this is some large-scale conceptual amendment, rather than specifying the definitions and definitions of competences set up by another amendment that we have recently adopted, an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure and related legislation. So that's where we were supposed to apply the comments that were made here, because that's where we put the powers of military police officers. The Military Police Act must also correspond to that, and he does not always correspond. So without going into any - unfortunately, I don't even have time grants - specific examples, in general, if we do the conceptual intervention that we have approved, then even the specific special regulation of the Military Police Act must follow it. And that was his task, or his aim, is the present law, or the amendment. That is why I am in favour of letting him go to second reading, with the fact that if there are any irregularities, we could reduce the proposed changes within the committee - and certainly one of them will be the Security Committee - to limit some things. Although I personally think that it is necessary for the effective functioning of the Military Police within the limits of the amendment to the Criminal Code, which we have recently approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u19	Thank you, Mrs Válková, for keeping time on the point of fact. I would also like to state that the procedure proposed by Mrs Jana Černochová is in accordance with Paragraph 63 (2) of the Rules of Procedure. 6, this means that first we will vote to reject and then to re-work, not as common as it is. Because it was a so-called conditional proposal. I am still stating the apology of Mrs Zelienková by the end of the day and now with priority right, Minister of Justice Pelikán. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will not speak for long. I just feel raised, so I have to say that all my comments have been fully settled to my complete satisfaction, so the proposal has my support. That's all I have to say.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u21	Thank you. We can continue with the debate, by speaking to Mr Zdeněk Ondráček, who is the last person to sign up for the general debate at first reading so far. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u22	Thank you again, Mr President. Once again, nice evening, esteemed colleagues. If you remember and want to remember, I was at this speaking desk last spring when we talked about the Houses of the Press 503 and I said here repeatedly that the investigation is a craft and to investigate that police officers, the Police of the Czech Republic have. Pursuant to, I think, Section 12 of the Criminal Code and part of the investigation in the case of foreign missions, military police officers were able and did so. At that time, it was stated that members or military officers had greater knowledge of the structure, internal rules, customs and procedures within the Ministry of Defence. I have repeatedly told them not to jump on it, that because of the 50 - 60 cases that were in the explanatory report, it is useless and that it will not go away for a long time and they will come up with a desire to expand their competences and powers. I said that on the Constitutional Legal Committee, where the Director was also present, or the Chief of Military Police. Yet you have enforced your crimes and your crimes military, or soldiers and in military objects, you have entrusted yourself to the investigation of the Military Police. Six months passed, and the chief-- the lieutenant colonel, the general-- he said he needed more authority today, and he came up with the fact that he needed wiretaps, a line, an operation, and I don't know what everything. Maybe he'll have his own crime lab soon, because the DOD has enough funds to secure this. Because of 50 to 60 cases a year that they're investigating. I have mentioned here that similar greater knowledge of the structure, internal rules, practices and procedures is also available to the police authorities of the Prison Service, which take place in accordance with Section 12 as police bodies within prison facilities. And it is true, believe it, because police officers of the Czech Republic enter this closed environment with operational technology only very complexly and always in cooperation with the Police Authority of the Prison Service. And I also said that if we went to the logic that precisely for the greater knowledge of the internal environment, the regulations should also investigate their criminal activity, so I asked when they would come up with the fact that they would investigate the few crimes that are happening inside the prisons. We have another security force, which is also a police authority - Customs Administration. And remember, it wasn't so long ago, at the end of last year there were demands or information from the Ministry of Finance that it would be good for the customs police authorities to conduct investigations into tax crimes and basically re-establish financial police, except not under the Ministry of the Interior, but under the Ministry of Finance. Because the good kobra works. Although the kobra is not only a department, it is not a department, because it is a association of people from Customs and Police of the Czech Republic, but we could give the authority to others. So we'll strengthen Customs. So today, you may extend your powers to military officers, turn them into agents, turn them into wire specialists. They may not only be listening to police officers, but maybe you, too, because the control will be much more complicated. Why not? Why not, if there's a chance? Fake transfers. After a while, we're gonna set up a crime lab, because we're gonna need expert analysis outside the Ministry of the Interior, because we have more knowledge of the structure, internal regulations, customs and procedures inside the army, so you've justified it, and you're gonna be booming. You approve, and when you approve, the Minister of Finance will come in logically and say, "I want it too." If the soldiers have it, the customs will have it, too. And we're gonna back off and say, "Yes, it's logical, but tax crime is best done by people from the FAO, Financial Analysis Unit." The cifrspions have access to it, they basically do not need such requirements or such things that the Police of the Czech Republic must meet according to 82 criminal rules, inspection, banking secrets. And we'll have more police. Customs this time. And she's gonna need her operation, too, and she's gonna need her agent, because tax crime is a lot sophisticated, and white collar crime is definitely more complicated than an investigation into a simple murder or a robbery. And then they'll remember those members of the Prison Service - if all the other security forces have it, we could have it, too. Yes, then destroy the Police of the Czech Republic, destroy and do what you want! It's just a pasculi, what you're doing here, and it confirms what I said here in February. You are simply trying to dismantle the ability and possibilities of investigating the Police of the Czech Republic and you are doing everything you can to prevent the Police of the Czech Republic from investigating and investigating criminal activity. And it doesn't matter whether the crime is of a general nature, or the nature of economic crime, or military. For 50 to 60 cases a year, you're setting up another police force here. Bravo, Minister!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, have a nice evening. Another duly signed up is Mrs Černochová. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u24	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. When I proposed the procedural issues, I don't know if your predecessor in the position of managing meeting correctly understood my proposal to extend the deadline, which should be voted on before the proposal - or should be made before the motion for rejection. I suggest we extend it to 90 days. Otherwise, I thank my colleague from the left side of the spectrum for his performance, because I have to say that I can sign every word he said here. And if you all don't realize the consequences of today's decision-making, it's a shame. Because I really didn't get the answer to the question I was asking the Minister of Defence, whether it would be the control of the Military Police and the use or abuse or what the wiretaps and operationally searching means, the technique which the commission, which the permanent commission, which control authority will deal with it. Can somebody answer that? I didn't get the answers to a whole series of questions I was asking here. The only person who answered me was a colleague of Chvojka. I don't even see... Mr. Pelican. Excuse me. I don't see the Home Secretary here either. I'd very much like his opinion on this thing. He is the Minister of the Interior, who has under him the Police of the Czech Republic, and the Minister of the Interior is given authority, which is passed on to soldiers. For this reason, I would also like to propose a suspension of this point in the presence of the Minister of the Interior, so that the Minister of the Interior can also comment on the plenary of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u25	Madame, before you leave the microphone, I need to clarify one thing. Your proposal is procedural and I will put it to a vote without debate. Anyway, you want to, you propose to extend the deadline by 30 days to 90, but that can only be done with the consent of the minister, otherwise you can suggest yourself... And the minister agrees with the extension? [[- I don't know.]] Then I'll ask the Minister whether he agrees or not. In case he doesn't agree, I'll give your second motion for 20 days of renegotiation, which can be done without the Minister's consent.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u26	The other proposal was to return the applicants for revision.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u27	Yes, I've got a mark on that. Return the plaintiff to work. I will now call my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby, because you have proposed a procedural matter, and that is the interruption of the discussion of this point into the presence of the Minister of the Interior. Am I saying that right?
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u28	Yes, to the presence of the Home Secretary. I even think the Home Secretary is here somewhere, or he was, because he's been sitting behind us the whole time, so I'm gonna take five minutes to announce a break on behalf of the Civic Democrat Club and ask my colleagues if it's possible to call a break.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u29	I'm going to ask you to withdraw this request for a break, because I have an interior minister's note on my desk.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u30	Oh, well, in that case, I'm taking the recess request back.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u31	Thank you. So, for the record, I'm going to read the apologies so that it's clear who's apologizing for today's meeting. Today from 18:00 for health reasons, Mr. Vojtěch Adam, from 17.40 until the end of the day due to urgent work obligations within the Ministry of the Interior, apologizes to Minister Milan Chovanec and further from 11. 1. to 13. 1. For personal reasons, Mrs Anna Putnová apologizes. I will therefore now vote on the procedural proposal. I'll read it first. Who agrees to interrupt this point in the presence of the Home Secretary? Initiating the vote and asking who is in favour of the motion, press the button and raise your hand. Who opposes this proposal? It's a vote with order number 52. 155 Members and Members are registered, for proposal 52, against 68. This proposal was rejected. In that case, we will continue the general debate. I note Mr Korte's factual remark. [[Voices from the diaper: Check out.]] Before the next vote, I'll sign off, yes. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u32	Thank you. My colleague Ondráček commended me twice after my performance on the previous point. I'll pay him back now. He doesn't listen, but I also praise him. It seems that he has completely precisely and competently discussed all my objections, which I have merely outlined in my contribution. I thank him for that, and I tell the sněmovna we didn't agree on it.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u33	Thank you for your comments and I therefore ask whether anyone else is joining the general debate. Please give priority rights to President Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u34	Our security experts consider this point to be extremely important, and we wanted to give room to the Minister to answer questions, so that we could possibly get involved. And there are two options. The first is better, the second is a little worse, but the first is that the minister will answer my colleague and see if he can convince us of the arguments and content of the answers. If he decides not to get off, which he has every right to, and he wants to keep his performance on the final floor, I'm gonna have to use my rights as club president and ask for a break in our club meeting. I don't really have it in my hands, but I'm ready to do it, because we're under time pressure anyway, we have 16 minutes to discuss this point, and at 18 o'clock, another point is firmly placed. And really, things that concern security should first be discussed thoroughly and secondly, and that is much more important, we should try to find a greater consensus than the government's majority. On safety issues, I would -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u35	I apologize, Mr President, for entering into your speech, but I will ask you, colleagues, to keep it down so that it is understood what the President is saying. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u36	Even the fact that there are heated debates between the members of the Security Committee or the Defence Committee shows that there is something to debate about this law. And really, and you don't have to believe us, we, as constructive opposition to security, defence, but also foreign policy, are trying to meet the government and we are trying to find the same solution. We have repeatedly performed here with the idea that we will be as strong as we will be at home united in foreign countries. So if there are questions, if there are doubts about the content of this law, I think it would be appropriate precisely for the safety of our citizens and the country as a whole to comply with the opposition, to listen to the opposition, to the negotiations not to rush and try to find a common view on this important issue. It's nothing confrontational. I'm not blaming anyone, I'm just calling for us to try to discuss these sensitive and important issues with each other. Even because the elections are in nine months, we do not know what the government will be, but continuity should be in the Czech Republic on such issues. We should not change the basic laws of any new government with regard to the security forces at all. Thank you for your understanding, and I'll leave his decision to the Minister. I get it. If he doesn't want to get off, he doesn't have to. We're not in school, I have no right or desire to summon him. I'm just asking politely, if he answered those questions, that would be good. If he wants to answer them elsewhere, at another meeting, well. It doesn't have to be today, I say, when we're under that time pressure, and it wasn't us who put the 18-hour mark that we're supposed to discuss in 13 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u37	Thank you. I'm recording two factual points. The first is Mr Chalupa, followed by Mr Schwarz. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u38	Thank you for the floor. I think and say it for several times. We have committees for expert discussions. At this time, we will not resolve any technical issues in this House. For that we have the Defence Committee, the Security Committee, the Minister will be happy to come, surely the Chief of Military Police will be happy to come, we will certainly have time to discuss things, discuss things, we can invite lawyers etc. We're not discussing anything here today. That is why the House of Committees has committees to deal with these issues in committees, and the committees will inform the House of how the committees are in a professional position, not political or political position, but, above all, in a professional way, they will assess and recommend further action to the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u39	Thank you, too. Mr Schwarz withdrew his factual point, in which case two further factual points. First Mrs Černochová, Mr Ondráček will be prepared. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u40	You know, if anyone but a fellow Member of the Chalupa had said that, I might have believed him. Mr Chalupa is chairman of the Sub-Committee on Acquisitions. You may have noticed how many acquisition activities in the Ministry of Defence have been taking place in recent weeks and months, when madras are being dealt with, helicopters are being dealt with, pandurs are being dealt with, where the amount has increased by CZK 800 million on pandurs - but a fellow Member of the Chalupa Sub-Committee has not called up since August. And he did not summon him because he fears that we Members would ask questions that we Members would ask how it is possible that the pandurs have increased by CZK 800 million, how it is possible that helicopters that were to be bought in a category are purchased in another category, so how many objections are there as to how many court cases are in competition with the Minister of Defence. We would ask about all this on the Sub-Committee on Acquisitions or on the Defence Committee. Yes, but someone would have to call him. So what my colleague here just said sounds beautiful, but his mouth is dusty with lies.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u41	Thank you. Now, with the factual remark of Mr Ondráček. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I'd like to see a colleague of Chalupa through you. Of course, I am in favour of every professional issue, and this is a very professional matter, being discussed primarily in committees that should be expert, and there we should discuss these matters. But if we decide and entrust the military police with the power to conduct investigations and criminal offences that have not been committed on foreign missions abroad, as it was until the adoption of the House Press 503, and we have extended it, it is not an expert decision. That's a purely political decision. Don't look for any expertise in that. Because if you go after expertise, you're not going to tell me that the investigation experts are with the Military Police. And that they've ever been there. They may have crossed over because they were overpaid by the Military Police, and they came from the Police of the Czech Republic. What you're criticizing here is that one of the security forces is sucking each other out and overpaying each other's people, that's exactly the system. And I have a number of colleagues who have transferred from the Police of the Czech Republic to the Military Police and have basically become investigators or pseudo-investigators. But expert discussions would not take place on the ground of either the Defence Committee or the Security Committee in this regard, because this is a purely political decision. And the decision - it's basically a political hand. Because the YES movement has an army, maybe the Customs Service as a security force, and maybe the Home Secretary won't tell you about it, because you will bite the reorganization of the police that took place here in the merger of two nationwide units. So there won't be any professional discussions in the committees.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u43	Thank you. Another point of fact is made by Mr Hájek. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u44	Mr President, I will be brief, yes, time. I think the first reading is for the House to decide whether the law is worth discussing or not. I think this law makes sense, so please, let us vote on it and decide which committee should deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u45	Thank you, too. I therefore wonder if anyone else is taking part in the debate. Please, Chairman Stanjura. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u46	Of course, it's not the opposition's fault that the Home Secretary isn't here. I think we can agree that this is someone else's fault, not the opposition's. However, if we're hearing fairly strong terms here, who in the armed forces is competent and who isn't, I'm not able to judge. But I agree that what awaits us is a political decision. That we're moving our powers.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u47	I will ask you, honourable Members, not to shout and respect each other. If you wish to speak, sign up for the debate. Please continue.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u48	I'm sure it's not a lie. Maybe I misunderstood. I'm not saying I'm right. The way I understood it, there will be a transfer of competences, and even within the departments. And I would like to warn you, and it's been happening a lot lately, and this government is doing it to mix defenses and internal security. It's very often mixed with executive acts. But those are two completely different areas! The fact that some of us see it as one, we shouldn't understand it. It is external and internal security. And here we're actually talking about moving, or potentially moving, or what we're worried about, even if that's not true, some of us can disprove it, is moving from internal security to defense. That's just the way it is, and I understood it from the appearance of those members of the Security Committee or the Defence Committee who have so far spoken in the debate. My first performance was that, on such questions, the responsible government should debate this with the opposition in advance. In advance. Not when the government bill is sent to the House. We all know the coalition contracts. It doesn't matter if this government or the past. And if I paraphrase it a little bit, it says in the coalition treaty: if the government sends the law to the House, the government's MPs will support the government's proposal. I'm not exactly saying this, but it's the content of coalition policy, it's normal, it's common. But at the moment that you want to debate and change the law here, which is quite possible under normal laws, we saw it today in the law of the MPSV workshop, that we have quite well rewritten it - for this I would like to thank all Members who have significantly improved the law once more - so here I am afraid that it is a little late for the security issue to be addressed by 15 members of the Security Committee to be done. [[unintelligible]] And those who are there, please respect that the rest of us care. And now I hear the argument: come to the committee, you can! Of course, we can do that, but in the meantime, other committees are sitting and it is not easy to reconcile. We're actually calling for a political agreement on basic parameters. Not after a technical debate, whether in § 3a there will be a word or an i, or whether it will be there or, perhaps or always. That's the professional debate, so I'm definitely not ready for that, and I'm also not a member of either of the two committees mentioned. And there's nothing wrong with that. And then we get to a situation where we're actually pulling the emergency brake and we have two options. Then we're forced to propose a rejection of the law, which the government coalition doesn't like. And I say, I understand politically. Or, which I think is more elegant, if the government had withdrawn the bill and discussed with us about the parameters, then the law could be discussed much faster. I spoke about this on Tuesday at the Grémium of the Chamber of Deputies, and I am really glad that the Prime Minister has called a meeting of representatives of the parliamentary parties also on a problematic law, or an important law, so that I do not raise this issue in advance, the Military Intelligence Act. The meeting will take place on January 31st, where we will consult together and look for a common and strong majority opinion. Because really, on security issues, secret services, defense, we should at least try to find a consensus. Worst-case scenario, we disagree, and then the government majority comes in. But if at least part or all of the opposition supports it, it's better for those laws and for the resorts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u49	Thank you, too. Mr Schwarz is signed up with a point of fact. Please, Mr. Ambassador.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u50	Good evening, Mr. Vice-President. I want to apologize to the chairman of the ODS that I kidnapped and yelled at him that nothing was moving. I'd just like to say, please, if you're so interested in all this professionally, all these people here, do you know how long the Military Police have been, does they exist? Do you know how long he's been carrying files to the county department and to the crime lab where he's already been investigating? And that we're not moving anything. That only some things want to change, improve and strengthen. But the fact that there's a long time - can someone give me a fair answer now? The ones who performed here, how does it exist, how long do they keep the files? How long have the military cops been carrying my files as a CSI and I've implemented them? And without the D.A., I didn't do anything, not even that military cop? Well, I just wanted to remind you. That's all.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u51	Thank you. I therefore ask whether anyone else is still reporting for the debate before I, if necessary, close the debate. I'm recording two factual points. First is Mr Luzar, then Mrs Černochová. At this point in time, factual remarks take precedence. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u52	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am listening to this debate here, and my question, even if I am not a specialist in this area, nevertheless I am quite intensively concerned with security, is where we would like to go in this state with the security services. It has been said here since the previous speakers that they will begin to move here or strengthen individual apparatuses. They've been talking about customs officials that very soon they're gonna want their own expertise, their own approaches, and other things. But there is now talk of the Military Police. Yes, there is a problem, and here it has been made clear from a colleague, the problem is that they take the investigation file and go to the police and ask for an expert opinion, possibly. access to analyses, access to the professional apparatus that the Ministry of Interior has, and they want to make their work easier, and they want this apparatus to be part of the Military Police, so that they have the powers to investigate similar to the classical police. So that, as they say, they can finally take the file, slap it, and hand it over to the authorities that should decide, or to the courts. But I ask: Is it really necessary for us to strengthen this power? [[18.00 hours]] And I'm going to head back to the law before us. I am concerned that, in the framework of terrorist acts, there is justification for strengthening security, and citizens are nodding about what is going to happen. But there's no talking anymore about how long it will be, how long this increased power will be. We've had a state of emergency in France for how long. He's been declared extraordinarily. How long is he staying and moving? How far did it help the country's safety? In our country, the first stage has been declared too long, and no one mentions it when it might end. Or is this going to be a standard and we're going to live at this level all the time? But let's say it as we proceed. [[The President shall draw attention to the time.]] Sorry. Therefore, I do not agree with strengthening the powers of individual participants, which means police, military police, customs and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-01-11-ps2013-054-02-023-041.u53	Since it is 18 o'clock, I am interrupting this point because we have a fixed point at 18 o'clock and this is the Information of the Minister of Transport Dan Ťok on the situation on the completed section D8. So I'm interrupting the discussion of this point. I'm opening another point that's firmly placed, and that's it.
