ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u1	62. Government bill amending Act No. 127/2005 Coll., on Electronic Communications and on Amendments to Certain Related Acts (the Electronic Communications Act), as amended, and Act No. 483/1991 Coll., on Czech Television, as amended /house print 1053/ - first reading Jiří Havlíček, Minister of Industry and Trade for the first time, will present the proposal on behalf of the Government. Please, Minister, you have the floor. Please, Minister, go ahead!
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u2	Thank you very much. Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by thanking you for your kind adoption at the beginning of this meeting before I address the amendment to the Electronic Communications Act. I really appreciate it. I also believe that this will be a good sign for lawmaking, which will be presented from the workshop of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. It is a prime minister for me today, so I believe that this will be reflected today in this first reading of the Electronic Communications Act. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] Mr President, honourable Members, this law consists of two parts. The first part of the proposed bill deals with ensuring and implementing the process of transition to a new, spectrally more efficient DVB-T2 standard as a key part of the implementation of the strategy for the development of terrestrial digital broadcasting, which was approved by the government last year. In order to ensure legal certainty for entities participating in or affected by the process of transition to DVB-T2, the strategy for the development of terrestrial digital television set out the basic legal framework for the transition to DVB-T2 into an amendment to the laws concerned, defining the essential conditions and principles of the process of transition to DVB-T2 and granting the necessary legal authorisation for the issue of the so-called "Building Act'. a technical plan in the form of a government regulation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u3	I'm very sorry, Minister. Although you said it was a nice reception, it didn't last long for the Chamber of Deputies. It's getting loud in here. So I'm gonna ask my colleagues to transfer their calls to the machine guns, and please continue when it's quiet here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u4	A similar procedure was used in the implementation of the switch from analogue television to current digital television broadcasting in DVB-T format. The proposed amendment therefore proposes amendments ensuring the legal framework for the necessary measures for this transition. These are amendments to the Act on Electronic Communications and the Act on Czech Television. The nature of the proposed changes lies in the implementation of the substantive objectives which must be ensured through the legislative framework created for the implementation of the transfer to DVB-T2. These include, in particular, establishing the conditions and rules for the simultaneous dissemination of digital television in DVB-T and DVB-T2 standards, the authorisation to establish and issue a technical plan for the transition to DVB-T2, which sets out certain rules for the finalisation of this transition, and the implementation of a change in existing radio frequency allocations, on the basis of which digital television is currently distributed in the current DVB-T format and the operation of the dedicated network. Another part of the proposed adjustments is to ensure a process of reimbursement of costs incurred effectively and efficiently, directly related to the implementation of the transition to this new DVB-T2 format and, last but not least, to ensure the protection of the quality of the dissemination and reception of digital television in DVB-T2 networks against interference from the 700 megahertz band and other bands used for mobile broadband access services. Furthermore, the Government's bill, that is the second part, contains aspects strengthening consumer protection in the field of electronic communications and the position of the Czech Telecommunications Authority in the field of regulation. In particular, it is a new adjustment to the portability of telephone numbers, where the maximum period of notice in case of transfer is specified specifically for ten days. Furthermore, we introduce an obligation for the contract to include arrangements on the extent of possible unilateral changes to the contract and on the manner in which they are notified to the participant, including notification of the possibility of withdrawal from the contract. Furthermore, we propose to amend § 63 para. 6 of the Electronic Communications Act in the sense that the participant is to be informed of his right to withdraw from the contract without penalty in the event of a unilateral amendment to the requirements of this Treaty. The maximum amount of the penalty for the commission of offences is now adjusted, which consists, first, in increasing the maximum amounts so far and in supplementing the possibility of imposing penalties on the turnover of the perpetrator of the offence. Ladies and gentlemen, on 22 March the Economic Committee dealt with the draft law particularly before the first reading. I would like to thank you very much for this opportunity and constructive debate. Furthermore, allow me to respond in this context to some of the information that has just been heard at the meeting of the Economic Committee. One of the topics that appeared was whether it was necessary to switch to the new DVB-T2 broadcasting format, which means buying new, more modern televisions by households. As the government has already declared in the 2015 radio spectrum management strategy and last year's digital television development strategy, the answer is clearly yes. Earth broadcasting receives 60 percent of households and a controlled transition to this new, spectrally more efficient format will ensure the most sensitive way for our fellow citizens who want to adopt free-to-air programs. For the sake of completeness, I add that the reason for the transition is that a certain part of the frequency spectrum that is still used for television broadcasting will be used for fast mobile data services, as is apparent from international agreements and at this time also the completed European legislation. This is therefore a forced step. [[16.20 hours]] The second issue raised at the meeting of the Economic Committee was a question of some concern regarding possible illegal public support in the context of the transfer to DVBT 2. In this context, it should be stressed that the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in cooperation with the Office for the Protection of Competition, is negotiating with the European Commission. The Czech Republic is one of the first member countries to begin with. Prenotification procedure. Europe's legislation that has just been completed directly states that it is possible to compensate for costs enabling a transition to more efficient technologies. Furthermore, the draft law in Article 1 (2) also contains a guarantee that only effective and efficient costs incurred after successful proceedings before the European Commission can be reimbursed. Thus, no funds can be paid without this aid being notified in advance by the European Commission. Discussions were also held at the meeting of the Economic Committee on proposed measures to strengthen consumer protection and their impact on the mobile services market. Here I must say that how the adjustment of the maximum portability period of the number or the information obligation on the possibility to withdraw from the contract without penalty in the event of a unilateral modification of the contract by the operator will increase the competitive environment. This will make it easier for participants to switch from one operator to another, putting pressure on better and better services towards consumers, and this could ultimately lead to cheaper services. The last point I want to mention is the new method of determining the amount of sanctions that the Czech Telecommunications Authority will be able to grant. In this respect, the amount of the penalty will be derived from the percentage of the perpetrator's net turnover, which will take account of the economic strength so that the penalties can be dissuasive. Of course, it is clear that the Czech Telecommunications Authority must comply with the principles of administrative punishment in order to succeed in the case of a review in court. One of the principles of administrative punishment is that sanctions should be proportionate. Therefore, it must not be liquidated, but it should discourage action in breach of the legal obligation. The proposed method of determining the penalty, i.e. the percentage of the perpetrator's net turnover, is currently available to the Office for the Protection of Competition or e.g. Energy Regulatory Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to draw attention to and recall the political agreement of 3 March this year on the shortening of the deadline for discussing the bill in committees to 20 days. This is an agreement from the Prime Minister's meeting with the representatives of the parliamentary parties on this matter. Since I was present at the meeting, I am aware that all the representatives of all the MPs here in the Chamber of Deputies have expressed their support for this. So, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your attention and I look forward to further cooperation.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u5	Thank you, Minister. I am now asking the rapporteur for the first reading of Mr Jiří Valenta. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the translator's representative has given all the main reasons why this amendment to the Electronic Communications Act, but also a parallel amendment to the Czech Television Act, is presented to the House, and I have no reason to comment further on this as rapporteur. The material went through the commentary process, but only in the part concerning the transition to the new DVB-T2 digital broadcast platform. However, according to some professional organisations on the electronic communications market, part of the amendment concerning the adjustment of the position of the telephone operator's client has not been properly mentioned. As rapporteur for this press, I am obliged to tell you and this circumstance. As many of you know, a meeting of Prime Minister Sobotka and representatives of parliamentary parties followed on 3 March following the discussion of the draft amendment to the Government, where there was consensus within the framework of the proposal to shorten the negotiations from 60 to 20 days between first and second reading, so that this amendment still has a chance to be adopted by the end of this parliamentary term. On 14 March, he arrived in the Chamber of Deputies, where he was sent to the Members as the House press 1053/0. For your information, although the first reading is included up to today, and the Minister has already submitted this, the amendment has already been discussed by the Economic Committee on its own initiative, where not only the petitioner or Members of the Economic Committee have commented on the law, but also for example. Chairman of the Board of ČTÚ or representatives of the most important professional organizations. The representatives of the consumer sector have been somewhat forgotten here, which they have subsequently pointed out in writing to me as rapporteur for the press. Colleagues and colleagues, as part of the intelligence report, I will no longer be able to take another subjective commentary on the whole issue. For this reason in particular, Mr President, I am now asking you to give me the right to speak in a similar debate when you open it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u7	Thank you, rapporteur. Definitely, however, the first with priority rights is already registered by your colleague Černoch, so if you don't mind, right after that. I am therefore opening a general debate, which was the first to be heard by the President of the Dawn Dawn Dawn Dawn Dawn Dawn Dawn Dawn Dawn Dawn Marek Dawn Černoch Dawn. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask the Minister, although I know the first point is always the hardest. There were a lot of arguments here, they were all in the words of the classic social security and the pros, but there wasn't a thing that I think is quite apparent from the bill, and it's written in the law and it's written that it should tell the citizens that it's going to cost a lot of money. The transition to DVB-T2 means the purchase of new TVs, meaning the purchase of set-top boxes, which in order, if it is about 2.5 million citizens, it is an increase to billions of crowns. Those are points that didn't ring a bell. There was always talk of cheaper data, about the fact that this law brings benefits, but unfortunately the reality is a little different. I've really looked into this law very carefully and it's about three basic parts. It is about the transition to DVB-T2, it is about relations between operators and customers, in which the Minister is right, and about some contractual penalties and sanctions. But it's not about cheaper data. And in that first base, in that first part, it's going to require the purchase of new machines and that it's going to cost a lot of money. And I think that 2.5 million people are still a number that is sticking to the ground, that part of them will be much bigger. Not to mention the fact that the current devices that are, I've been to a shopping mall, as well as the more expensive models, are not marked with a sticker or a sign that this device can accept the new DVB-T2 system. So if people aren't fully aware and go to buy some more expensive TV and don't see exactly what principle the system is working on, they can buy a machine that's no use to them in the finals, and they're gonna have to buy that set-top box again. So that's the thing that I think - and my colleague Pilný, we talked about it, he argued so well. I'm curious and looking forward to his performance. The next point we are not talking about is that this whole system, or this whole law, is tailored to radio communication, which will receive CZK 400 million in support of the media campaign. It's a thing I think we definitely need to mention. It's gonna be support, it's gonna be illegal support in a way. And third, my last point is that if there were auctions, the state could make billions on it. If it doesn't cost, the state will lose billions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u9	Thank you, Mr Černoch. Now with priority rights, the rapporteur. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u10	Ladies and gentlemen, I have personally been rapporteur for the unfortunate or controversial amendment to the Act in 2014, when, unfortunately, the amendments have now been made to it by a very downgraded and criticised provision whereby operators are to communicate direct messages to customers only about the content of substantial changes to the contract and not about any contractual change as before. This obligation, which subsequently damaged, or at least limited hundreds of thousands of consumers to their rights, was conceived by the operator to inform the customer that the contractual terms would change at a certain date and it is only up to him to be interested in, as a change, and then acted accordingly. For your interest. There was also a change in terminology in the law, when the term "participant" was replaced by the term "consumer." This might seem like a purely formal change, in fact it was once again a huge liking to operators, since the term consumer no longer included businessmen, etc., etc. And for these reasons in particular, I did not even vote in favour of this law. However, the amendment was then adopted by more votes than the Constitutional House, namely 138 votes. But what followed? After this House's adoption, the Czech Telecommunications Authority also pointed out by letter of the whole situation and problems to the Senate that this could lead to a deterioration in the position of mobile operators' customers. However, the amendment to the Senate was approved on 22 October 2014. He also pointed out that the amendment is not only, in his view, a complete violation of European Union law. The European Commission has even started saving the Czech Republic in the context of dialogue, within the framework of the European Union's Pilot system, which is a step forward in the process when the European Commission launches infringement proceedings under Art. The Commission considers that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. The Chamber of Commerce and the Senate's Economic Committees expressed their views on the issue at the time that the responsibility lies solely with the MIT, with the fact that if it is able to justify its response to the Court and, where appropriate, to the CTU, there is no reason to change their recommendation. Since then, the whole issue of the Electronic Communications Act seems to have fallen asleep, probably because the big players on the market were extremely satisfied. Interlinking with the media and some policies has thus worked again. On 23 October 2014, however, I personally interrogated Prime Minister Sobotka with why he did not mind that the Minister of Industry and Trade's position on the mentioned restrictions on consumer rights was not negative, and I received a non-spoken formal written reply designed again under the methodological supervision of the MIT itself. Its content showed that the Prime Minister did not perceive the restriction of consumer rights in 2014 when he wrote to me that the change did not change the basic principle that the participant could terminate the contract without penalty if the change led to a deterioration in his position. I mean, everything's actually okay. Prostisporusky and also counter-market, at least in my opinion, have so far worked in the law and also the deadlines. For example, although the transmission of a telephone number to another operator is relatively fast in accordance with Art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 4 Measures of general nature CTU OOP/10/10.2012 and should not last for more than four days, the entire notice process delays precisely notice periods. For an indefinite period of time, it may take two months for the customer to be released, while the abandoned operator may still have a different effect on the customer or do it unnecessary on purpose. However, it is best for a functioning competition that the change between operators should take place as quickly as possible and that the customer could express his disapproval. The government proposed ten days is therefore a positive aspect, but, as I mentioned, everything would go much faster, but if it were also much more wanted. And all of a sudden, the government is waking up from a winter sleep and starting to fight for consumers, even though it's actually ten past twelve. Why, for three years, it has not bothered anybody, especially our executive minister, in the first place, that the text of the amendment adopted by the Act also contradicts the valid European regulatory framework in electronic communications, which in Article 4 (1) (b) of the Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Does the universal service directive 2002/22/EC, as amended by its revision 2009/136/EU, oblige an entrepreneur to inform the participant both of the planned change and of the termination of the contract without penalty, with the possibility of termination of the contract being linked to any modification of the contract, not simply to the amendment of certain requirements? In fact, the amendment presented now only brings everything back to legal harmony. The petitioners are also likely to be more or less interested in bringing customers closer to a satisfactory condition through the necessary progressive progression. Now, shortly before the elections, it is appropriate for voters to serve some of the smaller sweetness, which is, however, not difficult in this area, if we look, for example, at current aggregate sums paid by consumers for telecommunications services. And in Poland, our citizens are certainly not going to go to Poland at lower prices of calls and data. But not just to criticize. I now fully agree with the changes proposed by the government regarding the improvement of consumer status, as well as the legislative arrangements relating to the next phase of digitalisation of broadcasting. However, I see this as a purposeful, not entirely necessary, and a country dictated by Brussels bureaucracy. However, I cannot praise the long-term preserved state in the area of ICT with us, as well as the current tendency of the state body, meant the Ministry of Industry and Trade, in favour of large businessmen in the IT area, which we have all had the opportunity to register recently. Finally, anti-consumer attitudes may have broken, or perhaps they have broken the political ligament otherwise, in my opinion, both socially and humanly acceptable to Minister Mládek. And I don't see much of myself in that regard either. The trio of operators in the Czech Republic is, according to many experts, a textbook type of oligopoly with a precisely divided domain destroying competition. And the state is hypocritically silent about it. But now that I think about it, I find that silence is not the right word. Representatives of our executives are very vocal about solving problems in the telecommunications area - but mostly among themselves. For example, when Minister Mládek said that roaming is an elitist matter for five percent of the population, Minister Babiš responded in turn that the only elites Mládek has been helping are his friends with operators who have served faithfully for three years. But now I have information that Prime Minister Sobotka has finally requested an investigation from the IOHS and also the Czech Television is conducting a three-critical analysis that should be completed during spring. Perhaps something will finally move in this preserved area. So the government has already swayed before the end of the parliamentary term and is presenting this amendment, which is said to be of great importance to it now in its rapid negotiations. After those three years of reigning relationship dysbalance operator-customer, but still. From the consumer's point of view, it is indifferent that the amendment was originally intended to contain only changes in the context of the transition to a new degree of digitalisation of DVB-T2. It is also clear that it is not even some disparate legislative label, which some opponents are trying to make an entirely impossible argument. Of course, big players on the market are now building on the back. It is said that at the last minute a provision was incorporated into the proposal - the one which both the petitioner and I refer to as a consumer - which was not discussed in the inter-ministerial commentary procedure and was not discussed with the professional public. At least according to the letter from the ICT Union, the Confederation of Industry and Transport, the Association of Mobile Network Operators and the Czech Association of Electronic Communications. On their part or from their lobbyists, I have intensively registered an increased criticism of the increase in financial sanctions, i.e. fines for administrative offences, which are newly defined in § 118 para. 23. The proposed fines up to 5 to 10 per cent of net turnover or up to 50 million, whichever amount is higher, taking into account the astronomical profits of mobile operators, do not pose any threat whatsoever to them. And vanquishing, as some purposefully claim, is not at all. It is normal to comply with legal requirements, and the arguments that increasing fines is equally unnecessary, because even today these are not granted in the maximum amount, are completely irrelevant. It must be clear to everyone that they are not granted because there is a great ignorance of administrative punishment, which is very recording to mobile operators. [[16.40 hours]] As rapporteur for both the House and the Economic Committee, but also as chair of the subcommittee on the ICT industry and eGovernment, I regret to say that there is another accompanying phenomenon on this issue. This has long been the opposite of the expert opinions of the MIT and ČTÚ, which do not thus have the most favourable influence on the whole evolution of the law on electronic communications, but also on the whole IT area. The last time I registered this was as the rapporteur of the Act on reducing the cost of introducing high-speed electronic communications networks, which is now coming to third reading. And another example. On 17 February this year, Minister Mládek attacked ČTÚ for the fact that the Office did not perform calls and data prices in connection with the extremely high prices. According to Mládek ČTÚ issued a statement in April 2016 that the market is fine, and suddenly according to ČTÚ it is no longer. And even though he considered giving the Czech ČTÚ an incentive to an anti-monopoly office because it was supposedly very strange, the ministry's life did not save him anymore. Finally, I would like to repeat something that my previous speaker spoke of, and what the promoter says about the argument of some professional organisations that the process of switching terrestrial television from DVB-T to DVB-T2 standard is the most expensive solution possible, since the consumer, and this has also been said, will pay, among others. up to 5 billion for new television, respectively. for new set-top boxes or another billion for building and several years of operation of transition networks to tune and switch networks existing as well as companies including Czech radio communications. I would also like to know the opinion on the legal opinion of the Czech Association of Satellite Operators, which claims that the set-up of financial public support is contrary to the applicable legislation at both national and European level, with the example of the European Commission Decision 2016/2395 of 5 August 2016 on unlawful State aid to terrestrial broadcasters in the implementation of DVB-T in the territory of Spain. I thank the Minister in advance for his answer and all of you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u11	Thank you to the rapporteur. Another party to the debate is Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, let me congratulate the newly appointed minister and personally on his appointment. I look forward to numerous meetings at the Economic Committee, because there are a lot of things ahead of him. And I also hope he survives in good health because he was kind of thrown into a blender. First of all, I would like to say that the criticism of mobile operators, which has been raised here in particular in the area of overpriced data and abuse of the paragraph, which we have adopted in good faith more than the constitutional majority, is absolutely appropriate. I'm saying this so I don't get accused of lobbying for mobile operators anymore, because I, if you don't mind, will only lobby for common sense. So what this law is about and what it's not about. It's already been mentioned here. But we shouldn't have to adopt laws, as happens often lately, against someone, but we should accept them for people. So in my contribution, I will focus on the impact this law will have on people. According to the statistics available, 1.5 million people don't have Internet access, hundreds of thousands of people don't have smart phones. This group - and now I would like to draw attention to the left side of the hall - is a group of people who are socially weak, they are seniors, etc., on which the mobile data tariff has no effect whatsoever because they do not use it at all. But they're gonna have to buy a new TV or a set-top box. These people don't exchange televisions at the moment called. natural exchanges, I don't know what it is, but they trade TVs the moment it's wasted, because that's all they can do. The idea that most of them buy set-top boxes is totally fake, because if you're trying to set-top box install on an old TV, then you know that it's definitely beyond those people's capabilities, and then they're going to hunt TV channels on two drivers. It's just for those who play the social weakness and the consumer protection. The other part of the citizens for whom mobile data is important, so there is a need to say it here has been said that the 700 MHz frequency is really released because it will be used for mobile data. The part that concerns mobile operators, and it has already been mentioned here. It is certainly necessary to amend the paragraph concerning information only on substantial changes, because operators have abused it. By the way, the paragraph is not formulated in the opinion of the lawyers quite well, so it may need to be modified in some way. As far as fines are concerned, I think discussing whether they should be a percentage of turnover or some amount does not quite make sense, because, as has already been said here, if you can grant it, if you have any serious reasons for doing so and the fine corresponds to the offence. They have a similar law in Slovakia. It has been valid for some time. It was said that there are still two Czech operators operating there. But the truth is that the Slovak Telecommunications Authority only issued a large fine once, in hundreds of thousands of euros. Otherwise, the fines were granted in a negative way, because e.g. A penalty for overpriced mobile data is simply not possible. The issue of illegal support has also been mentioned here. I am too much of a support in this law for the support to be paid to individual players only when the notification is completed, and the notification is not terminated. So I'm hoping that the government will have so much sense - or it will be added to the law of the relevant paragraph, which will require this directly, because the problem is really serious. The illusion that this law will change the price of mobile data is really an illusion because it can't and doesn't have a direct effect, just like it wouldn't affect the price of tomatoes or drills. It's just not possible. There are only two ways to discount mobile data. The first is to strengthen the role of virtual operators. Virtual operators, these are people who buy mobile data from license holders and then sell them. It's something like what used to be retail and wholesale prices. Mobile operators sell at retail prices, virtual operators at wholesale prices. Unfortunately, the problem is that virtual operators receive prices that are far and far higher than the retail prices at which the operator sells it, i.e. I think it's useless. Virtual operators really create a lot of pressure on the market because they don't need a distribution network. They get a package of data, and they can sell it in supermarkets, tobacco shops, etc. ČTÚ has done nothing for them and there is no mention of this problem in this law. And here I am expecting appropriate amendments to adjust the relationship with virtual operators. Another possible way to reduce mobile data prices is to enter another operator. There is currently a competition on the mobile operator on the 5G network. This is the next generation's network that will bring great costs. The state expects to get 140 million for it. Then there will be a competition for the 700 MHz free band and there will be even a profit of 4 billion. I am very concerned that mobile operators who have enough to worry about introducing the current generation network, i.e. LTE, let alone 5G, or they've taken over another frequency, under the media massage that's going on here, and the legislative massage, I don't think the interest will be too banged up to get that money into that radio communication account in any way. Moreover, it should be noted that, as far as the price of mobile data is concerned, the price of mobile data is expensive for ordinary consumers who cannot impose pressure on mobile operators. There are a number of individual prices where mobile data is essentially cheaper. They are used by state administration, public administration and entrepreneurs. In the original draft law, there were even paragraphs that these individual agreements would not be possible. This is a direct guide for operators to reduce the price list price of mobile data and cancel all these contracts. If they cancel these contracts, of course the impact on the public, state and business sphere will be considerable. When I sum up the whole thing, I must say that, unfortunately, the adoption of this law is necessary. It is not true that the European Union is forcing us to switch to a new standard of television broadcasting. It's not true it's her script. It is not true that the impact on terrestrial television will be great, because if the means used for the transition were used to extend the terrestrial broadcasting on other frequencies on which it is also broadcast, and then there are also frequencies at which only radio broadcasts, this scenario would bring a completely different cost to citizens. [[16.50 hours]] I also cannot agree with what has been said here that at the last minute, the government is giving voters some chocolate candy at that moment that it adopts this law. This candy will cost citizens five to ten billion. That's what I need to say. And I think it's fair to say what the law is about and what it's not about, even though we're going to have to accept it, because the transition to T2 is just happening at this point. I also intercede for the deadline for the adoption of the law to be reduced to 20 days, a certain scope for amendments, which I expect, in particular, from representatives of virtual operators, to create. Since there have been calls for a deadline to be reduced to seven days, I would point out that this is totally unacceptable, because the Committee on Economic Affairs, which will be a committee of guarantee, is unable to set a deadline for amendments in seven days, to give them to the opinion of the Ministry of Industry and Trade, then to renegotiate them, even twice. Seven days is out of the question. We might as well have accepted it in the '90s. Even those twenty days will be problematic, but since all players have been informed in time, and as has already been mentioned, the Economic Committee has already had a meeting dealing with this issue, there is some space here. We're adopting a law in a situation where there's no avoiding it, but at least we shouldn't lie to people about what it's about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u13	I thank Mr Pilný. Mr. President of the ODS MP Zbyněk Stanjura. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u14	Thank you for the floor. Congratulations to the new minister. Unlike him, I hope that he will not submit to us further and further bills, as he said in his introductory words. There's no point, we can't make it. I hope these ambitions of yours remain unfulfilled for practical reasons. Before me, the chairman of the Economic Committee spoke. I agree with most of what he said. He used the word real operator and virtual operator. In recent days, weeks and months, we have learned virtual reality from the Prime Minister in particular, but also from the Minister of Finance. Now we're gonna adopt the law and we're gonna have cheaper mobile data. We've heard that many times from your boss's mouth, both party and government. I must say, the new minister said it very carefully, very carefully. He said what everything was there, and then he said an inconspicuous sentence, about the third sentence in the context - and that might lead to price cuts. It couldn't. I would like a clear word from the Minister that this law has no connection to the prices of mobile data. Whatever form we approve it, it won't have a positive effect, a virtual reality that the Prime Minister in particular creates, it just won't. Then I get to the individual reservations. Let's see what happened. Originally, the bill was planned - not that it has two parts, but it has one part - I will not use the complex shortcut DVB-T2. I'll say second digitization. I apologize for some simplification, but it's easier to pronounce, and I think it's just easier for voters to understand. This was the subject of this bill. For the last moment, it's election year, we have to do something for people. So let's make their mobile data cheaper, we've been told by the polls, it's pretty good, it might like it, we'll try to make a suggestion, and most importantly we have to say that, and we have to look very confident that we believe that. My second question to the Minister, if he personally believes it and personally guarantees that when the law passes, the price of mobile data will be reduced. Not to somebody, to somebody, it's to everyone. That's what we're talking about. There's always gonna be some fluctuations. I feel that the MIT has abandoned the idea of a state planning commission, or what was the name of the prize-making office, that it will set prices and no one will be able to negotiate another price. Let's really distinguish these two circuits in the debate. I would like to hear from the Minister the answer to the questions and to the statement made by the President of the Economic Committee: no one is forcing us, it is not true that Brusel wants us to do so. If you say so, then I ask why we did not use the transitional period of opt-out until 2022, because the longer the transition period, the greater the natural replacement of televisions and the less additional costs. We know very well that every government is very conservative when I say this politely means that it underestimates the costs that change the law will bring to citizens. In this material, additional costs outside the natural replacement of televisions are estimated to be five 5 billion. I agree it's more like ten. Moreover, the CTÚ chose such format, I am not saying that it is not good, it is new, but already in 2015 there were TVs on our market that claimed that when the second digitization came, they would work. And they won't. They won't because a different format has been selected. I agree that it is better that it compresses data more and so on, but those who in good faith bought a TV that can handle the second digitization will have to buy another TV. I understand TV suppliers are quite comfortable with that. It would be ideal if everyone had to change their TVs every year. We would say: you will have more programs and higher quality and so on. I believe that the government has released a fog with the cost of data services so that it cannot be seen for the additional costs for households. And we're here to disperse the mist, to make it clear that we're all going to have to invest, thanks to the decision of the Chamber of Deputies, the Government and the Czech Television. It's quite touching when the minister says they started pre-no-fi-ci. The eurospeaker is really astonishing. And some of the sentences he said, they're really worth the heaving. That's a Eurospeake as rarely as possible. But if you want to provide public support, and clearly that's what the government wants, we need to notify. And yet it is clear, it is even in the resolution and strategy of this government that it must not be identified first, and then discuss the bill. Have you been notified, Minister? Not pre-notified. There's still the beginning of pre-notification. It's nothing. Don't be mad at me. Where's the result? Do we have the opinion of the European Commission that this is not public aid? We don't. Well, I suggest you come back when you have it. But at the same time, I understand that it simply won't be in this parliamentary term. And what happens? Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, nothing will happen. Nothing will happen if we don't adopt the second digitization law. I really don't. Or nothing will happen if we don't accept him in this parliamentary term. I'm absolutely sure of it. So let's go to the mist that the government is releasing so that we can't see the extra cost for the household, and what it says is that it's going to make mobile data cheaper, and let's look at the tools that they're voting for. And I'm not saying they're all bad. I think the ten-day deadline for the number convertibility is correct. I don't see the problem. What is very problematic is the possibility to terminate the contract unilaterally at any change in the contract. Minister, I would like to ask, will this also be in the case of purely administrative changes or changes that go to the client's advantage or which are neutral to the client? For example, if the billing address changes? Or am I going to change the debit account number? According to this bill, I will voluntarily conclude a contract, obtain some terms, conclude a contract, then continue to explore the market, find that there is a more advantageous offer, and although I have a valid contract, for example, I will notify the operator that I need to change the account number from which the collection is made, and according to this bill, this is a reason for one-sided termination of the contract without penalties. I'm not talking about when the consumer gets worse, I'm talking about purely administrative, which is neutral, whether I'm paying from one bank or the other, is neutral, or if the name of the company changes, which is the essential requirement of the contract or the company's registered office, even at that point it will apply? Eventually, the weakest will pay. Everything you force as if by pressure, eventually the weakest will pay, those who do not have company tariffs that have tariffs for their family members, so it will be paid by those who do not have the option and do not have such a strong negotiating position. [[17,00 hours]] Penalties. It sounds very good, 10 per cent turnover, possibly at a repeated 20 per cent turnover. But if I understand correctly, the sanctions can also be applied to individual failures, i.e. I'm sure the mistake will affect one or two customers. Now I'm not talking about breaching the technical terms of the license, etc. I have here a summary of the statistics on the practice of imposing fines so far. For 2013 ČTÚ, and this is the total sum of all fines to all, 9.1 million, for 2014 21.7 million, for 2015 24.5 million, so it is, let's say, two, three tens of millions of crowns tops. And you're coming up with a proposal for billions of units. I know it's cute, but will it really lead to a bigger market opening? We know that entering the market is extremely expensive, which is why we have three operators. At the moment when the ČTÚ decides to destroy one by saving e.g. 20% penalty - you were still talking to the perpetrator, the perpetrator. So the perpetrator gets a 20% penalty, which could be close to eight billion, so maybe he'll walk out of the market and stay two. It's an improvement in the position for consumers and customers, isn't it? I myself am curious about what the Government Members will come up with in particular in the context of discussions, with which amendments. But there are many doubts about household costs in particular, and in the introductory words, the Minister simply did not refute them. He's a bit of a downer. Come on, a couple billion. For a few billion we want to buy TVs. So what? Five, six, seven, maybe ten billion. Sounds like a lot to me. And do we have to have it by the end of 2020, or don't we? I don't think we have to. So what's the point of this bill? For the Prime Minister, perhaps the Minister of Finance, one, maybe two, maybe three government parties to say: See, we work for you, we've arranged for you a lower price for mobile data. But don't be surprised, it'll be too late, so the cheaper prices will be after the election. Sure, they will. And if you don't, it's somebody else's fault. We did everything we could.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u15	Good afternoon, honourable Members, Members of the Government. We will continue the debate, but first I will read the apology to the President of the Chamber of Deputies from Mr Jiří Holeček, who apologizes from 17:00 to 21:00 for family reasons. Now with priority rights, Mr Marek Černoch and also duly applied for by Mr Kudela. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u16	Thank you again for the floor. I'd like to stop by for a little while for expenses that really need to compensate the households in some way. This has already been heard from Mr Pilný, who has now been heard from Mr Stanjura. I would quote to the Minister, and I know that it is not easy for him to enter the first time with such a complex matter, directly from the law: The transition process to DVB-T2 which is an essential part of the long-term strategy has, of course, consequences and consequences for the entities concerned. In principle, the main effects of the DVB-T2 transition process on terrestrial digital television network operators, broadcasters and viewers are the main impacts, i.e. household in the Czech Republic. Unfortunately, at this point, it's not certain how much it's going to be. The specific amounts will be specified only during the transition process. Now there are three paragraphs, in quotes very interesting paragraphs. These two cost groups relate to the audience and affect virtually all citizens of the state. Practically all citizens of the state. Forced changes to reception infrastructure on the side of viewers, which are related to the necessary purchase of new reception equipment beyond the normal cycle of replacement of reception equipment. These are de facto forced purchases of television receivers or set-top boxes. In some cases, antenna systems will need to be modified in households. This applies, of course, to shared TV antennas of apartment buildings. Clearly, it is not possible to consider general and global household replacements. However, the way in which the costs incurred in the information campaign and consumer protection measures should be reimbursed should be considered. And finally. The biggest costs resulting from the implementation of the transfer process to DVB-T2 are linked to the acceleration of household expenditure for the exchange of televisions in the estimated amount of around CZK 4.9 billion over a given period compared to the normal expected household expenditure given by the normal cycle of replacement of reception facilities. On the other hand, however, the substantial modernisation of reception facilities in households and the promotion of the modernisation of the extension of free television broadcasting will benefit. So it follows from this law that, to put it publicly, we're gonna give a shit about people, we're just gonna tell them that they're gonna have to buy these new TVs or set-top boxes. No one will tell them that there will be more x steps to be taken, whether they are antenna systems, that it is also possible that they will buy the wrong TV and have to buy another TV, or they will buy a TV that will not have a certificate in the final to receive this new system. If the media headlines from the Prime Minister sounded "we want cheaper data, we fight for cheaper data," nothing else was there, it was always about cheaper data, and in the finals this law has nothing to do with cheaper data at all, so if the amendments do not change in any way forcefully, it is a lie. It is a lie to the citizens of the Czech Republic. I'm sorry to say this, but you're lying to them. Tell them the truth as it will be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u17	I thank Mr Marek Černoch and we will continue the debate. Mr Kudela will take the floor, Mr Leo Luzar will prepare himself. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u18	Mr President, gentlemen, ministers, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a House press on terrestrial television and efforts to make mobile operators' services cheaper. In 2021, large parts of television viewers will be affected by a significant technological change in television broadcasting, and that is the transition to a new generation of terrestrial digital broadcasting, which is referred to as DVB-T2, as colleague Stanjura said, the second stage of terrestrial digitalisation. DVB-T2 is a new generation of digital terrestrial broadcasting, it is the successor of the contemporary DVB-T terrestrial digital television broadcasting, which now uses about 60 percent of our television viewers. After 2020, terrestrial television will be able to be tuned only in this new T2 standard. What will this change bring? Opinions on this question vary. From my point of view, the transition could bring the following: the image quality will increase, the larger TV will be broadcast in HD resolution, high resolution, and for smaller TVs will be discounted in basic SD resolution. I also expect the number of television stations to increase. Today's frequency space is already exhausted and new television stations cannot be included in the entire broadcast even though they would like to. [[17.10 hours]] These pros are the result of two things. First, when transmitting in DVB-T2, the available bandwidth for video transmission will be increased and second, it will only be broadcast in H.265/HEVC compression format. Since the price of the broadcast should be reduced, it may be possible that more stations will start broadcasting on the ground. On the one hand, new TV stations can be created and, on the other hand, television stations that are broadcasting only from satellites today will be able to enter the terrestrial broadcasting system. In relation to this, I would like to point out that I will not intervene in the discussion of this point, because it is widely known that I am involved with the project of non-commercial non-profit television station NOE. NOE today broadcasts via Astra 3B via multiplex 8 Czech radiocommunications and is interested in inclusion in DVB-T2 transition networks and then in the broadcasting of standard DVB-T2. I do so even though I am not a statutory representative of a company that owns a licence, I am not the owner or co-owner of a licence holder, nor am I a controlling person who would have a major impact on a licensed company, and I will not have any personal profit from discussing this point. Yet I do so so so that I cannot be accused that I have not brought this public, clear and out loud. Like many of you, I look forward to the expected, I also look forward to the reduced prices of mobile operators' services, from which all citizens of this country, including 200 Members of this House, should benefit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u19	I thank Mr Petr Kudel and Mr Leo Luzar, the last one entered into the general debate so far, will take the floor. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u20	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice-President. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, let me also comment on the proposed law that we are discussing today. It has been said here by my previous speakers that they do not oppose this law, even in some sense they welcome the need that is declared in the introduction of this law. At first, I allow myself to respond to some of the statements that have been made here. First of all, I congratulate the Minister for today's assignment, in this very complex material, which he must defend. As the previous speakers have said, it's not really easy, even if it looks that way at first sight. It is not simple for one simple reason - because the new minister is not a completely new person at the Ministry, but he has already worked on the Ministry, and there have been some indications that the Ministry of Industry has not taken the right steps in the past in this matter. Maybe he'll have an easy position knowing where there was a mistake in the past, just because he wasn't a minister, he couldn't fix it. A worse situation would have occurred if he had participated in the wrong steps as a ministry official and now as a minister he should admit it, which would have gotten into a schizophrenic role. I leave it unanswered, and I don't expect an answer, it's more of a reflection on the Minister's view. As far as the first circle of problems are concerned, that means, as has been said here, the second digitization. We have a fourth industrial revolution, so we can have a second digitization. It's a problem that's caused by the pressure on the frequency. Let's face it. If this pressure were not to release the frequencies currently used by television broadcasting, the entire second digitization would end up exactly the same as the digital radio, so-called. DAB - digital audio broadcasting, which has been running in the test mode for about 15 years and is not always willing to put it into regular operation. Although no one questions the advantages of digital radio, yet it comes across resistance mainly from existing radio and radio operators, that is, mostly private operators who are afraid of large investments in technology to spread new digital broadcasts. It also sounds a little bit in the subtext of my previous speakers as part of the second digitalisation of television broadcasting, that this is a possible problem of private television broadcasting, to change technologies and change technical equipment and related operating costs. I can vividly imagine that the law is talking about a transitional period or a transitional period. The scenarios that will be drawn up by the Ministry of Industry and Trade and in this scenario will set quite long deadlines for both types of broadcasts to run simultaneously, and at that moment also the television viewer in the natural change of televisions so many times mentioned here will be able to choose which time they choose to switch to this digital broadcast. But that's not the main topic I wanted to talk about today. I can imagine different models of how to proceed in this matter, but it really is a matter of the Ministry's procedure, namely the state, as far as it wants to apply digital television two. But what is more important to me and why I have spoken in this debate is the access of mobile operators to our customers. We've got three carp in a pond that's already fattened up nicely because of the ban on hunting, there's a calm level on the pond because they tamed the fishermen around. These fishermen only feed them, but they do not throw hooks to hunt them. I am talking about those who maybe in good faith, and I wish to believe that it was in good faith, supported the last amendment of this law, which really came to the hands of operators, even though we were pointing out from this rhetoric, even I personally spoke about it. It should be about customers in the first place. At least this is stated in the preamble or in the introduction of this law, and so it is presented by appropriate officials, ministers, Prime Minister in the media. But what this amendment can do for customers. I'm answering - very little if it doesn't move the competition. The competition between the three operators currently rules is zero. They have a really divided market, they really use methods in relation to themselves uncompetitive and resist any open competition. I guess I won't be far from reminding you that each of us is using a mobile phone and will remember when, at the latest or when, the last time he was called from a mobile operator offering him favorable services, the conversion of his prices and the transition to another operator, etc. Sounds like competition. Yes, one would say, I might like it, but he finds that when he accidentally considers that he could switch to another operator, because perhaps he really offered him a better price, he encounters an institute of notice periods, he encounters an institute of prolongation commitment that he may have made a long time ago. I don't know if you know, but maybe the normal notice period for data services is at least 42 days, which means two financial years. The operator will accept your statement from the data services, but requests a notice period that you cannot shorten, reject - 42 days. I tried that on my own by O2 operator. In this period, you have been called x-fold to reconsider, or you are sent letters that threaten and force you to stay with the existing operator, because when you have only one part of the contract, you have other contracts concluded with him for classical voice services, and in my case, I have received letters that have told me all the services and asked for periodic penalty payments. The machine of pressure on consumers just started to stay with the existing operator. This, in my opinion, is a non-compete act, but it is legally inconvenient. Except where the operator, as happened in my case for example, intentionally violated § 10, which speaks of the fact that the duration of the obligation must be notified to the customer at least three months and no later than one month before that time. Without looking at it, the operator did so that he could put some pressure on me to stay with his services. [[17.20 hours]] That's why I took the liberty of preparing a proposal that maybe, and I firmly believe it, will move a little competitive struggle, because customers have long since forgotten what it's like when the operator was running ahead of his contract, when he offered him the mobile phone with a significant discount, the very good tariff to go to him. All of this has vanished from this market, remaining only for corporate customers under mass contracts. But the classic user lost all these benefits by stabilizing the market and forcing the operator to fight for it. They're using a simple trick, like I said. The trick is related to the prolongation of advantages, automatic, when the customer, if he does not look after the small ink on the invoice indicated that this time is near and easily overlooked, automatically by another two years need to extend this contract, or possibly. they use that trick that the notice period of the data service is disproportionately long and, of course, it is expensive to operate with one operator and to move to the other is a problem at that moment, because the data would have to be valid simultaneously. That is why I have prepared an amendment, which is in the system under paragraph 6135, which seeks to move the competition that is currently not on this market through these two minor modifications. The first one speaks in Section 63 of the Scriptures. (g) that the notice may not exceed 30 days. It unites the time of notice so that operators can't say 42 days, 45 days, or so. 50. Nothing forces them to say that the time has to be shorter. In order to clearly set a period of 30 days in this law, until the legal effects of the statement must occur. And the second point I'm suggesting is that when you're close to the time of your contract with the commitment you've entered into, you're required to agree actively to extend it. Not active disapproval. Active consent. That means that the operator calls you and says, "Hello, Mr. Luzar, your contract ends with an advantage." Do you want to extend it further? And not automatically if you don't. So I suggested in § 63 para. 10 to add the appropriate sentence that shifts this obligation to the operator and gives the customer the opportunity to terminate. These amendments are introduced in the system. I suppose I will come to the Economic Committee, and I will try to defend them before this committee, to take them up as a guarantee committee, and to hopefully make Czech telecommunications competition a bit more competitive thanks to this. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u21	I thank Mr Leo Luzar. We continue with the factual remark made by Mr Roman Sklenák. Please, Mr. Chairman, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u22	Thank you for the floor. I would like, with reference to the Minister's introductory words and also to the agreement of the Prime Minister's meeting, to propose a reduction of the deadline to 20 days for committee discussions. And now that I have the floor, at the same time, I dare to make a procedural proposal. We've been negotiating for three and a half hours, and so far we're at the first point on the agenda approved by the Organizing Committee. I don't think there's an overachiever ambition to discuss the points that are on the board today. On behalf of the two ČSSD and YES 2011 MPs, I propose that we discuss all proposals in terms of terms and procedures today, even after 7:00 p.m., before negotiating points 1 to 4, as it shines on the board.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u23	Thank you. I've noted a reduction in the deadline for 20 days. And, of course, before the end of the debate, I will vote on your procedural proposal. But I will because we will make decisions. I'll sign you all out. I'm gonna ask you for a new registration. Please log in with your ID cards. We will decide that today we will act in a procedural manner and decide on the laws even after 19 o'clock, until 21 o'clock, respectively. Until those points 1 through 4 are exhausted. We will decide in the vote number 42, which I have begun and I ask who is in favour. Who's against it? Thank you. In the vote order number 42, out of 136 present, for 75, against 52. The motion was accepted. So we will act today and after 19 o'clock. [[There's a lot of noise in the room.]] We will therefore continue the debate now. With a factual remark, Mr Ivan Pilný. Please, Mr. Ambassador, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I am merely present to colleagues and colleagues from the Economic Committee -
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u25	I hate to break it to you, because you have a momentary momentary comment to make, but colleagues, colleagues, I ask you to remain calm so that colleague Pilný can make his point of order. I'll prolong your time. I'm serious, gentlemen. If you're having another conversation, please be in the foyer. Please.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u26	Thank you, Mr President. I just have a very short factual point, because there is a proposal to shorten the deadline to 20 days, so I would just ask my colleagues and colleagues from the Economic Committee, we will have to call an extraordinary meeting, because if we were to discuss this at a proper meeting on 19 April, then the scope for these amendments would be four to five days, to declare them, to receive them, to give them to the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and then to process them in some way. So we will have to call, albeit a short but still necessary meeting of the Economic Committee, if the proposal to shorten the deadline is that 20 days. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u27	I thank Mr Pilný. Sorry to interrupt. Now with the priority right of the rapporteur. In the debate. Please, rapporteur.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u28	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the first part of this entry, I would also like to add to the opinion of Mr Pilný, the Chairman of the Economic Committee for Pilný, that more shortening than 20 days is absolutely impossible and impossible for time reasons. Then I'd take the liberty of responding to him for a short time. In my performance, I spoke quite extensively about the textbook oligopoly of three operators. And the required reduction in the prices of voice and data services can be achieved by breaking this oligopoly, which will simultaneously increase competition. And for anyone who doesn't yet know what oligopoly is in this respect, so briefly, oligopol is carrying out a smaller volume of production. In this case, this means low tax limits at prices higher than they would have had to. In this case, prices are indeed extreme in the European context. According to my information, the competition authority is now saving whether there are grounds for the intervention of the competition regulator on the telecommunications markets. Whether or not there is this forbidden cooperation between operators that holds these extreme prices so terribly high. I consider the strengthening of powers, specifically if you want the Czech Telecommunications Authority as the mentioned regulator, to be more than necessary by means of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u29	I thank the rapporteur for his speech. I'm asking who's still reporting for the debate. If no one - the Minister yet in the debate or the final word? [[The final word.]] All right. I can end the debate. Now the final words - first Mr. Minister of Industry and Trade of the Czech Republic Jiří Havlíček. You have your word.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I will try to answer the calls of some Members to be short in my final word, but first let me comment on some of the things that have been mentioned here. I would like to assure you, Mr President, Mr Černoch, that no one here is hiding that the transition to a new digital broadcasting model would have no cost for citizens. This is certainly not the case and certainly this information has already been done in the media, so citizens know that it will be necessary to change the TV or buy a new set-top box. This is not new information, this is information that is already here and which will, of course, also spread in the media space. As far as media campaigns are concerned, operators will certainly not receive funding for media campaigns. The only funds that can go to a media campaign are the funds that could be used by the Ministry of Industry and Trade to promote the education of the real transition to DVB-T2 and what it means to citizens. We've already started this campaign, look at our website. Basically, the vast majority of the information related to this topic has been mentioned there for several months. As regards the case of Spain, which has also been mentioned here, I would like to say that this is a completely different case. It has to do with what I was criticized here by Mr Stanjura, the President of the ODS. notification. Yes, there were problems in Spain precisely because they decided to pay out financial support to private entities without having it notified - if you want Czech approved - by the European Commission. This isn't the case. We will not spend any resources on compensation without the approval of the European Commission. As far as other aspects of this law are concerned, I don't want to go back to the past. There is no doubt that steps will be taken that will lead to a greater competitive environment, that customers will be able to move much more easily from one operator to another, stimulate a competitive environment, and undoubtedly this can ultimately lead both to improving services and to cheaper prices for these services. So the truth is that this amendment really does not have a direct effect on the price of mobile data, but, of course, by increasing the competitive environment, this can lead - and we believe that it will lead - to cheaper prices. Then I would like to comment on one more topic that has been raised here, why the DVB-T2 format was chosen. I would like to point out, and it is also mentioned somewhere in the underlying materials that, in a similar way or in the same way, neighbouring countries such as the Federal Republic of Germany or Austria, for example, are being issued. So in this respect, we want the Czech Republic to be compatible. As regards the costs to be borne by operators in connection with the transition to the new DVB-T2 standard, the compensation to be paid is only partly linked to the investment costs, partly to the depreciation of the investments made. But here again, I want to confirm that operators will not receive any funding for media awareness. So much for some of the topics that have been raised. In this final word, I would like to ask you again to support this law, and I would again like to request the approval of a shortening of the time limits for the discussions between first and second reading in the committees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-CZ_2017-04-04-ps2013-056-01-001-062.u31	Thank you, Minister. The rapporteur's final word? He's not interested. We can therefore proceed to the vote on the proposals. There has been no proposal to return or reject the proposal, and we can therefore vote on the commandments of the committees for discussion. The rapporteur will monitor me if there have been any other proposals in the debate, because I have no comment here. The Organizing Committee has proposed to order the draft submitted for discussion to the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee. Does anyone else have a proposal for a guarantee committee? It's not like that. We will proceed to vote number 43. I started this, and I ask who is the guarantee committee for the economic committee. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 43. Of the 151 Members present for 141, against no one. The motion was accepted. I note that this proposal has been ordered for discussion by the Economic Committee as a guarantee committee. The Organizing Committee did not propose to order this proposal to other committees. Does anyone else have a suggestion? It's not like that. There was no other proposal in the debate, Mr rapporteur? He didn't. We can therefore still discuss the proposal to shorten the time limit for discussion to 20 days, which was tabled in the debate, in the vote number 44, which I launched. I'm asking who's in favour of shortening the time limit. Who's against it? Thank you. Voting order number 44. Of the 151 Members present for 117, against 8. The motion was accepted. I am therefore of the opinion that this proposal has been ordered to discuss the Economic Committee as a committee of guarantee and the time limit for the hearing has been reduced to 20 days between the first and second readings. Thank you to the Minister of Industry and Trade, thank you to the rapporteur and end point 1 of our agenda. Now we're going to look at point number
